i do not think that anyone in the european parliament would accept that homosexuals should be discriminated against, attacked, intimidated or anything else because of their sexual orientation. that is not really the subject of today's debate. the debate is about whether it is still possible to criticize the spirit of political correctness that is gradually eroding freedom of expression. fortunately, the time has passed when homosexuality was taboo, but today it has become taboo to express concerns about some behaviour or tendencies of some homosexuals, even if it has nothing to do with discrimination or hatred or anything. the buttiglione case is still fresh in the memory. for example, those who oppose gay marriage are now quickly labeled homophobes and criminalized. commissioner frattini was just talking about diversity. but now, it's important that we also keep an eye out for diversity of opinion, because the 19th century quackery of sexual morality is being gradually replaced by the quackery of political correctness.
on behalf of the ppe-de group the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a container with an extra dash of paint to make it clear that it is indeed a second package, a container whose cargo is almost the same as the first. the commission has had the audacity to table a proposal which shows - and you are right mr hughes - that it is ignoring the vote of parliament. we would have liked to have had more respect, but the commission apparently found our contribution a little unnecessary. she could have done it on her own. the commission, ladies and gentlemen, has tested the self-dealing and tomorrow we shall see how this can go wrong. of course, self-handling is not the only problem. president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our group also notes that we may be heading for rejection. there is also a lot of criticism of the proposal in our group. the rapporteur, who deserves our respect, has not been able to find a majority for an acceptable, useful and feasible solution on the basis of this proposal, despite his persistent efforts. if this is not the end of the port package or the port package tour, then we know that we must move towards a totally different approach. we need an approach that is limited to solving the real problems. an approach that takes into account not only capital goods but also people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal basis for the directive is established. stop the confrontation model. long live the consulting model. i would like to know, commissioner, on behalf of the commission, whether you intend to consult all the parties concerned in advance when you come forward with new proposals. (applause from the left)
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i, along with many others, continue to be highly critical of the way in which the european commission has dealt with this matter. it is still surprising that less than a year after the previous port directive was rejected by this parliament, the commission has launched a new proposal without consulting the industry, without consulting parliament, knowing full well how sensitive this matter is. i stress this because i am convinced that things could have gone differently if there had been a willingness to enter into dialogue with those involved at an early stage. but i know, mr barrot, that you yourself are not particularly happy with this dossier and i am not addressing you personally, but it is worth reiterating. you also know that not only the method but also the content of the text is strongly opposed by the industry. the trade unions are of course concerned about the possibilities for self-handling, but harbours, port companies, pilots and even ship owners are also strongly critical of the proposal. in spite of all this, mr jarzembowski has made an attempt to get out of the mess, and this is commendable, but i do not agree with you on the substance of the matter. given the way this dossier was presented and given the way it was subsequently received by the industry, we cannot but reject it completely and ask the commission to do its homework again. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if you want to build a house and you know the foundation is bad, you don't build it, you start over. rejection means that the ports will simply be able to continue to operate as they have for the last 40 or 50 years, with spectacular growth rates in many cases. of course, this does not mean that we should sit back and watch. the european commission must take its time, reflect, sit down with the industry and study what really needs a european approach in the field of ports. a new green paper or white paper, as some are proposing, seems to me to be a good method, and in the meantime the commission can focus on what is being demanded by the whole sector, namely clear rules on transparency of public investment. but before that, we have to reject this proposal.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today and tomorrow the eyes of the whole trade union world, and of all those who are working for a more social europe, are on this parliament. it's going to be a big spring. this week the port directive, next month the bolkestein directive. as responsible politicians, we have the opportunity to put the european parliament on the map once again and to make it clear that we are not simply going along with the dominant narrative of ever greater competitiveness, ever greater privatisation, ever greater liberalisation. in rejecting this directive, let us make it clear that we want a different europe, one in which not only the economic, but also the social and ecological aspects are important. so take into account the people who work in the ports, the dockworkers who are threatened in their jobs, but still handle the cargo in a safe and efficient way. the pilot also guides the ships safely into the ports and ensures that environmental disasters, large and small, are prevented. as greens we will therefore reject this directive because we believe that a different europe is really possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would not have come to this, of course, if the european commission had had the wisdom two years ago to bury its catastrophic port directive in silence. it has been clear for years that public opinion in general and in european ports in particular has no democratic support for this antisocial, ideological and unpolitical package of measures. because the youngest child knows that this now infamous self-dealing will cause unemployment, social discontent and unsafe situations in the ports. but the commission went ahead. it is a matter of doctrine that we are being presented with virtually the same proposal that was rejected by a majority in this parliament two years ago. with no respect for this parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a bit like the bolkestein directive. and then, ladies and gentlemen, we have to ask ourselves why the citizens in france and the netherlands and tomorrow elsewhere are turning against this kind of europe. the european commission cannot be more blind to the social reality in the member states and more distant from the citizens in need.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups for their good cooperation. we have not always been able to agree on all the points, but i think we have reached agreement on the substance and will thus contribute to the establishment of a european strategy on a subject which will only grow in importance in the coming years. the reason for this is, as you know, the famous open skies ruling of the court of justice in 2002, which established that the european community has exclusive powers in the field of international air services, and more specifically in relation to automated reservation systems, intra-community ticket prices and the allocation of slots or landing rights. the court of justice has also ruled that the commission's decision to impose a fine on a third party for infringement of the competition rules is not justified by the fact that the commission has not taken into account the principle of proportionality. there are two instruments for this: either the member states themselves are conducting bilateral negotiations with the third country to bring their bilateral agreement into line with the case law (58 agreements have been brought into line in this way), or negotiations are being conducted at community level under the so-called horizontal mandate, and 22 countries have already accepted a horizontal agreement with the community, which has led to the adaptation of 327 bilateral agreements. so in total 385 agreements, a long way to go before all 2,000 agreements have been amended. in my report i therefore advocate that all bilateral agreements be adapted as soon as possible to the open skies judgments in order to avoid legal uncertainty. i prefer community agreements, since it only takes one negotiation to replace all existing bilateral agreements with a particular country at once. the european community can have a much greater say in negotiations than, for example, a single member state, but this requires a common coherent vision. i would stress that we must conclude agreements with our main partners and the developing countries, such as china, the united states and russia, as soon as possible, but we must not forget our immediate neighbours either. this is important for economic and aviation policy reasons, such as safety and security, and that is why i have tabled another amendment on this for today's vote. when community agreements are concluded, it is essential that the european community takes account of three important elements. firstly, the agreements must be balanced and equal access to each other's markets is important. this means that aspects such as landing rights, cabotage rights, equal rights of establishment and ownership and also state aid must be addressed. i myself have tabled an amendment for today's plenary session to add the question of state aid to the list. this is not unimportant - just think of the increased security measures imposed on all airlines in the united states after 9/11, but which were funded by the us government for american airlines and not for other airlines and that means distortion of competition. secondly, my report stresses that the opening up of markets must always be preceded by regulatory convergence. and that the degree of liberalization must be linked to fair conditions of competition. the european union has, or is working on, legislation on a number of social matters, such as safety, security, the environment, state aid and competition. these high standards cannot be eroded by the arrival of market players who have to abide by less stringent rules. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident. otherwise we are dealing with distortions of competition and there is also the danger of flagging, which would lead european airlines to move to states with less clear rules. that is why i have tabled an amendment to include the convergence of regulations on security, state aid and competition in my report, so that legislative convergence will also take place in these areas. if an open skies agreement proves impossible, the commission is asked to develop fair and transparent mechanisms for the allocation of traffic rights among member states. a third point, finally. the commission should also regularly consult and keep informed all the parties involved in the aviation sector and the european parliament during the negotiations on the many new aviation agreements to be concluded between europe and the rest of the world in the coming years. these three important elements, mr president, are also reflected in mr zīle's report on russia and china. here too the principle of reciprocity must be applied. the high charges levied by russia for flying over siberia must be abolished, because the shortest route to fly to asia - which is becoming increasingly important - is the russian federation. so i would like to give my full support to mr zīle.
mr president, the catania report which we have just voted down, the report on citizenship of the european union, can be credited with being without doubt one of the most hallucinatory and stupid texts ever produced in this parliament, and that is saying something. it was a matter of granting universal suffrage for all elections to everyone who was more or less legally in our territory. there was no requirement for integration, no requirement for language skills, no nationality requirement, in short, all rights but no duties for foreigners. this was indeed madness, this was the work of a few blinded ideologues who did not want to acknowledge the reality of the totally failed multicultural model. moreover, the report fundamentally undermined the sovereignty of our member states. citizenship and all rights attaching to it, including the right to vote, should remain the exclusive competence of the member states. europe has nothing to do with that. we have rightly voted against this stupid report.
ladies and gentlemen, sugar is the most heavily subsidised agricultural product in europe today. this makes the price three times higher than the world price. it's an unfair and unacceptable situation. i therefore believe that a thoroughgoing reform was inevitable, is inevitable. the question is whether the commission's proposals go far enough. i think that the structural problem of the sugar sector, in particular a general overproduction, is being overlooked. already, far more sugar is being produced than is being consumed. the price reductions will increase this, which will only benefit the large producers and the distribution. finally, it is the agro-industry that will benefit from the cost savings, while the small farmers will receive less for their sugar beet yields. at the end of the journey, the consumer will still pay the same price for a kilo of sugar. the poorest countries in particular are in danger of being hit hard by this reform. the preferential treatment has led to the creation of local sugar plantations in several acp countries, often on a small scale and with low investment. without further european support, these countries will be unable to compete. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the other amendments tabled by mr kinnock deserve our support. failure to meet the commitments under the everything but arms programme will seriously damage our credibility with the mol. in addition, this reform invites discussion on the general abolition of all export subsidies, as promised again recently in hong kong. in summary and conclusion: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate and the vote that is to follow will bring to a close more than a year of work in this house. i would also like to emphasize the constructive spirit of the rapporteur, mr jean-claude fruteau, whose reports i support. however, more than an end, this moment marks the beginning of a change that will take place in the sector. i would say to the commissioner that the drift towards the 'all-for-the-market' approach is devastating. we've helped to alleviate it a little bit. if this reform is rightly considered inevitable, we must be wary of its effects, since, after the council and parliament have agreed on the position, it is based on a drastic reduction in prices: 36% in four years. deregulation through prices is beneficial to large producers who can continue to expand without respect for the environment and exploit even more, outside europe, an underpaid labour force. this is also beneficial for the large users, who will buy sugar much cheaper on the world market without passing on this decrease to the selling price of the finished product. this is their definition of development, not to be confused with our concept of development! deregulation through prices, on the other hand, is harmful to small producers in our country and, even more so, in the acp countries and the ldcs, who will sell their sugar cheaper and may have to stop production, but without any real alternative to try to live off other production. this will not be beneficial for small consumers either, since it is very likely that the price of sugar will not fall for them. in addition, in europe, some countries will stop production and others will continue with difficulties, both for producers and for industries and their workers. i would like to make a special point about belgium: i would welcome the possibility of restructuring the chicory sector with a view to the production of insulin, which is a promising future. i tabled amendments to that effect and i thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for accepting them. i would like to see more attention paid to the part of the aid to farmers and the conditions to be met by industrialists applying for restructuring aid in the february council. i'll be very careful!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the provisions of the aarhus convention are applied by all the community institutions. and, despite what some of my colleagues may say, there is absolutely no intention of going beyond what is necessary to enable the community to conclude the aarhus convention. i am very pleased that the committee on the environment has substantially strengthened the council's common position. i therefore fully support the report and hope that it will be adopted in its entirety without amendments. given the growing importance of community environmental policy, the challenge is therefore to ensure that the regulation complies with all the provisions of the aarhus convention, not least in order to maintain some credibility with the member states and at international level. in other words, i believe that the same obligations and rights should exist at eu level as at member state level. this is particularly true for the identification of possible grounds for refusal of environmental information. the main point of discussion - and we have heard this before - is the transposition of the third pillar of the treaty, namely access to justice. it is clear that the general interest of the environment cannot be defended solely by persons who can assert a direct or individual interest, as provided for in the treaty. the commission has therefore decided to restrict access to justice to environmental organisations which meet certain conditions. and to try to impose shortcuts or additional conditions on this is not only unacceptable but also contrary to the aarhus convention; i therefore sincerely hope that those of you who are in favour of an open and transparent environmental policy in the eu will adopt the report as it stands.
president of the council, president of the commission, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, president of parliament, i should like to make a comment first of all on this debate, where it is very striking, i think, that the arguments used by the extreme left, the extreme right and the pro-independence groups are exactly the same. perhaps they should think about it. but now, chancellor, about your presidency program. first of all, like my colleagues in the group of the european people's party, i wish you all the best. but above all i would like to congratulate you and wish you the best with the focus on the balkans, which you are focusing on the western balkans in particular, and i would also like to wish you the very best with the conference in salzburg. in these times of so-called enlargement fatigue, that is a very important signal for which i am particularly grateful to you on behalf of my group.
president, honourable members of the three institutions, ladies and gentlemen, there is no such thing as a miracle formula for a successful presidency, but ambition and constructive cooperation between the institutions can certainly help, and you can count on the support of our group for this, as you have heard. mr president-in-office, we will not be able to judge whether your presidency has been a success until six months from now, but in order to help you or keep you on the right track - and i very much appreciated your introduction - i would like to make two specific recommendations. one: i would like to ask you to ensure that a structural solution is found to the pending dossier on the final list of goods and services eligible for the optional reduced rate of vat. we've had enough of this bullshit. we need to make decisions now. the sectors which were deprived of the root of the reduced rate - and i am thinking in particular of the catering industry but also of other sme sectors - are still starving. those who have come out of the labour-intensive services experiment, which has been extended three times, are in an unsustainable state of legal uncertainty. i do not think that the commission will be able to tolerate continuing manifest infringements of the sixth vat directive, and this case therefore seems to me to be a priority task. two , you 're not . i am glad to hear that you are seeking to combine openness and protection in the services directive. we are not shying away from the hard work of reaching a broadly supported positive majority in this house either. if you compare the original commission proposal with the result of the work of the committee on the internal market of this parliament, you will see that by amendment a different approach is possible. if the council supports us in this ambitious move, this delicate matter can finally be put to good use under your presidency. i wish the austrian presidency, as you have said, every success in serving the european union on these two and other items on the agenda.
mr president, it was clear yesterday, after the debate on the liberalization of port services, that a large majority of members of parliament were and are sensitive to the valid arguments of european port workers, and that is of course a good thing. we can only hope that the european commission, which is still somewhat alien to the world, will not continue to be angry, and we cannot be too optimistic about that, since i believe we will be hearing the bulk stone directive again next month. that said, i am very pleased to note that by voting against the jarzembowski report today we have clearly chosen the principle of 'work for your own people first'. we have protected our own national dockers from unfair competition from countries with very different working conditions. i am glad that the left and the right in this parliament have, for once, voted for their own people first. for once, we have put the fundamental interests of our own citizens above ideology. it is an example that will hopefully be followed.
i have not rejected the proposal for a port directive. i think we should have amended and improved the commission's proposal because there was a balanced package of amendments on the table. we could have removed self-handling from the directive, as the unions had asked. we could have created a framework for licensing and contracts, for the selection of port service providers by the port authorities. we could have created a clear legal framework for the pilot services. we could have made a clear transitional regime for existing licences. a majority of our parliament thinks that we should not do that, even though we have been discussing a european port policy for ten years now and even though all the arguments have been made by now. i'm not prepared to make short-term arguments and bury my head in the sand. we politicians have to do our legislative work and we're not doing it today. we are now passing the policy on to the judges of the european court. they will decide what the free movement of services in our ports means. our parliament was short-sighted today. i had a different view.
i must say, mr president, that the last speakers have surprised me by saying that a citizen is important when he says 'no' and apparently not when he says 'yes', but i must also say that there have been positive referendums and that at this moment 13 member states have already adopted the constitution. this is equally important to me, which is not to say that we should not take the 'no's' into account, they also give a very clear signal that we should take into account. but this is a purely negative signal which offers no alternative, while the fear which expresses this 'no' may paradoxically find its best answer in a european constitution, in a european answer. indeed, if you look at the eurobarometer - and the commissioner has rightly pointed this out - you will find that the public is indeed aware that a number of crossborder problems require a european response and require more europe. i am thinking in particular of the second and third pillars, and that is what the constitution was intended to offer. it is paradoxical again that the debate on the referendum itself has hardly touched upon the question of strengthening the political europe of the second and third pillars. i think that we should indeed actively use the reflection period today in the sense of the commission's plan d, that we should give time to time and that haste is a bad adviser here. i therefore agree with the report as it stands, because it shows the way forward. i am afraid that certain amendments which the rapporteurs have tabled again are actually going the way of that rush and are drawing conclusions in advance. i think we should take the time, especially to answer the basic question in the report, together with the national parliaments.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it was very interesting for me to take part in this debate and to follow the exchange of views. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels, and i am sure that the council will take a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. i agree with mr leinen that it would be unwise, indeed harmful, for the presidency at this stage of the debate to attempt to anticipate results. what we need now is a discussion. i would like to say again that i am grateful to the committee on constitutional affairs and to the rapporteurs duff and voggenhuber for having set this debate in motion. the presidency will take it up. we also believe that all the opinions expressed in this debate should be respected. as the vice-president has very well put it, it is about building a europe for all. this is the task which the austrian presidency has set itself. we will work together with the other member states and in agreement with the other institutions on the road map already mentioned. if today it was said that citizens are not interested in a debate on institutions, i would counter that this europe needs the appropriate institutions and institutional structures to be able to do what citizens expect of it. i very much hope that the president-in-office's remarks today also make it clear that the austrian presidency will take the problems which concern and concern the citizens of europe very seriously.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have only two short things to say. the first is to quote elmar brok who said at the beginning of the debate: 'the citizens are the stakeholders'. it is the citizens of europe who are the main target group, those who have the most to gain or lose from the way we deal with the question of a new constitutional treaty for europe. the second is to say that democracy is not a spectator sport. it requires that we engage in debate and dialogue with citizens, engage our political leaders and our citizens in every way possible and help us play our different roles in that context. however, i have heard so many of these rather easy remarks about 'what is it about the negative that you do not understand' and so on, that i would like to add that it is actually the case that we know precisely through opinion polls and interviews why people have answered yes or why they have voted no. it is not something we have invented, we know that any referendum which also includes constitutional questions carries the risk of actually getting answers to questions which have not been asked. politicians in all our member countries know this. it is not surprising that 25 member states engaged in a debate on how to solve a constitutional challenge in a europe which has grown from 15 to 25 member states are actually wondering how to get out of a situation where two member states have said no when 14 have said yes. how do we deal with that situation? are we going to just stop the process from now on, or is there a way out of it? it's not weird. you're making it a little too easy for yourself. the most interesting thing is that those who represent ukip (uk independence party) and call this a sham parliament seem to be all too happy to let the taxpayers of europe pay their salaries in this sham parliament, without contributing constructively with any idea of their own. i think we really have to get our act together and have an intellectually honest debate on european issues. we know a lot, and there's no shortcut. we can only engage in debate and dialogue with the citizens. we can only discuss the issues first and link them to the constitutional solutions necessary to achieve a more open, more democratic and more efficient europe. no matter how much you laugh.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the conflict in chechnya continues to be a source of instability in the north caucasus region. the political, economic and social situation and the human rights situation in the caucasus republic remain extremely unsatisfactory and worrying. all the institutions of the european union are well aware of the importance of this issue in relations with the russian federation. as you know, on 28 november last year parliamentary elections were held in chechnya, the first legislative elections in eight years. unfortunately, the european union and the osce were not able to observe these elections for security reasons. the fact that, for the first time in eight years, parliamentary elections were held in chechnya - although it must be stressed that they were very flawed - was regarded as a positive step by the then council presidency. the european union has supported the training of local observers for these elections. the european commission awarded a grant of eur 60 000 to support objective and professional local election observation by various civil society organisations. immediately after the elections, the then eu presidency issued a statement stating that the conduct of these elections could not be considered to be flawed and that some observers had expressed concerns. it urged the russian authorities to investigate the reported irregularities and intimidation. the declaration concluded that further strengthening of democratic institutions as part of an inclusive political process is crucial for the long-term sustainable and peaceful development of chechnya and for peace and stability in the north caucasus as a whole. the european union has always expressed serious concern at the political process in chechnya and continues to urge the russian authorities to give greater openness and legitimacy to this political process. human rights and democracy are regular and ongoing issues in relations between the european union and the russian federation. the partnership and cooperation agreement, in its fundamental statements on the eu-russia relationship, provides for respect for common values such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law. chechnya is a key player in the biannual human rights consultations with russia, which were officially launched in march 2005 under the luxembourg eu presidency. in these consultations, the eu expresses its concern in particular about the disappearance of persons and the fact that human rights violations generally go unpunished. the last round of these very important consultations took place in brussels on 8 september 2005. they will be continued under the austrian presidency of the council this year. a sustained commitment by the european union and its members is needed here, as these consultations provide a framework in which such issues can be addressed in a very open and constructive way. the european union has taken and maintained a clear position on the issue of human rights since the outbreak of the second conflict in chechnya in september 1999. the union continues to advocate a political solution to the conflict and calls on the russian federation to cooperate closely with international human rights mechanisms, in particular with the united nations and its special rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, the council of europe, in particular the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, and, of course, the osce. the osce would certainly welcome a renewed permanent presence in chechnya in the form of a field mission. the osce has already played a very important role in the efforts to find a solution during the first conflict in chechnya. a similar role would be of great importance this time too. at the eu-russia summit in november 2004, russia agreed to the european commission's €20 million aid programme, which is intended to support socioeconomic recovery in the north caucasus in addition to ongoing humanitarian aid. the programme is intended to contribute to the promotion of an open and democratic political process in chechnya. as regards civil society, the situation of non-governmental organisations, judicial reform, the situation of human rights activists and media freedom in russia are areas of particular concern and are regularly raised by the eu with russian representatives. the eu is firmly convinced that it is in russia's interest to have a strong and independent civil society. the draft law on non-governmental organisations was adopted by the state duma and the federation council at the end of december 2005. the eu has repeatedly expressed its concern about this draft, in particular in a letter of 22 november 2005 to duma speaker gryslow and at a troika meeting on 2 december 2005. i also expect that now that the bill has been signed, we will take a stand again. the draft law requires foreign ngos to provide the russian authorities with reports on their programmes, funding and organisation. russian ngos may be prohibited from working in restricted areas, which by its nature makes their activities in sensitive areas and areas very limited or impossible. the g8 presidency of russia since 1 january 2006 should provide an incentive for russia not only to improve its image on the international stage but also to contribute to a more active and sustained effort to resolve the conflict in chechnya and thus also to improve the situation in the south caucasus, where three other conflicts - though frozen - with south ossetia, abkhazia and nagorno-karabakh are awaiting urgent resolution. the eu has stated that it will closely monitor russia's conduct during the g8 presidency. the issue of civil society will continue to be raised at the semiannual human rights consultations with russia. mr president, we must be firmly resolved to continue the dialogue with the russian federation on chechnya and other human rights issues, despite all the difficulties and resistance, and to press for an improvement in the situation.
member of the commission. mr president, president-in-office, honourable members, i am most grateful for this opportunity to give the commission’s view on the future of chechnya after the elections. it is positive, as the presidency mentioned, that the elections took place without violence, even if one cannot ignore the deficiencies in the process. three parties received sufficient support to be represented in the new parliament, with the pro-kremlin united russia far outweighing the others. we hope that this constitutes a step towards greater political representation, greater stability and eventually peaceful democracy. neither the osce nor the council of europe sent a fully fledged observer mission, since the conditions on the ground did not permit it, but the latter did send an eight-member fact-finding mission. we therefore have no official reports, but we are aware of statements by members of the latter mission and by other organisations drawing attention, in particular, to deficiencies in the process, and we expect such allegations to be properly investigated. while we welcome the russian federal authorities’ commitment to allocate significant funds for reconstruction, a number of other actions need to be taken if these elections are to be a step towards more peace and democracy. although there appears to have been an improvement in the security situation in chechnya, unfortunately a culture of impunity remains. reported cases of disappearances and torture should be fully investigated and the perpetrators, including members of the law enforcement authorities, brought to justice. we note that russia has expressed its willingness to cooperate with un human rights mechanisms including, for instance, the high commissioner for human rights, mrs louise arbour. these assurances should be put into practice and there should be cooperation with the un special rapporteurs. it is also important that the local ombudsman in chechnya be seen to be carrying out his duties impartially, as well as effectively. as has already been mentioned, i would like to emphasise that the european commission is playing its part in the region. we have agreed a eur 20 million programme for socio-economic recovery in the north caucasus, because we believe that to be one of the root causes of that conflict. this is in addition to humanitarian assistance, for which we are already the biggest donor through echo. this gives a clear indication of our willingness to be actively involved in the process of strengthening democracy and stability in the region. our programme will help support the much-needed rehabilitation of the health and education sectors and assist in job-creation and income-generation activities. in my former capacity as austrian foreign minister i visited chechnya as chairwoman of the osce. i remember my visit very well. we saw health establishments at first hand and a lot of improvement is indeed necessary. it is also our intention to open an office in the north caucasus region, possibly in vladikavkaz, which would help us to monitor the implementation of our programme and keep us better informed on the situation on the ground. i should, however, express our concern at the continuing difficulties that ngos have to face – as the presidency mentioned – including those receiving support from the european commission, such as the russian-chechen friendship society in nizhny novgorod. this also affects ngos delivering humanitarian assistance under the echo programme. in that context i should like to draw your attention to the recent amendments to russian legislation on ngos. we expressed our concerns about the effect of that legislation on ngos financed under echo in the north caucasus through the eidhr and tacis programmes to the chairwoman of the presidential council on the development of social society and human rights. i also discussed the matter with the foreign minister, mr lavrov, who assured me that there would be changes to the proposal at second reading in the duma. the text of the legislation finally approved by the duma does indeed take some account of concerns expressed by the european union and the council of europe, which we welcome. however, we remain concerned that some of the provisions remain too far-reaching – for example the scope for denying registration to local ngos and the controls exerted on both local and foreign ngos. we are taking careful note of the way in which these provisions are implemented. that is our task now. and we shall also be taking every available opportunity to make the russian authorities aware of any concerns that arise with regard to that implementation. our regular political dialogue with russia and the next round of eu-russia human rights consultations set for march are an excellent chance to do this.
i am very glad that we are members of parliament and that we have the advantage of not being diplomats and of still being able to name reality as it is, as it really is. fortunately, we still have the gift of wonder, fortunately, we still have the gift of indignation. the european parliament has therefore taken the lead in recent years in denouncing what is wrong in russia and chechnya. yes, there is an atmosphere of impunity in chechnya and throughout the north caucasus. there's a growing number of kidnappings, abuses and indiscriminate killings. yes, the russian federation does not control the situation there, on the contrary, the conflict is spreading from chechnya to ingushetia and to the whole of the north caucasus. it is a shame to organise elections against this background and then say, as the council or the commission, that the elections were more or less successful. i therefore call on the commission, the council, the foreign ministers and, in particular, the belgian foreign minister, who is now holding the osce presidency, to state the facts. i am deciding, mr president, to ensure that the russians are helped to... (the president cut the speaker off)
i do not think, mr president, that it is detrimental to the work of our colleague mr tannock if we find that, because of the european commission, there is actually a huge missed opportunity hidden in that european neighbourhood policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and that even in the first place and in a very privileged place. it should already be clear that the vast majority of our european citizens are absolutely opposed to turkey's full membership of the eu and that it would therefore be a very undemocratic act to dismiss this mass disapproval. once again, turkey is not a european country, geographically, historically, politically, religiously, in any way. but turkey is a neighbour with whom we want the best relations and which could have played an important and most prominent role in the european neighbourhood policy. so this is a missed opportunity and a mistake which will cost us dearly sooner or later. i would like to make one further comment on the report on our relations with the maghreb countries. i regret that a very important fact has not been included, namely the recent statement by the moroccan government calling for a policy of return, for the return of a large part of the 2.5 million moroccans currently in europe, whose young people are known to be facing 40% unemployment, not to mention other forms of social protection where they end up. this is a very important change of course by the moroccan government which we as europeans should actively support, also in our neighbourhood policy.
in this report, mr president, the european parliament is basically sweeping the floor with democracy, saying that it is not concerned about the referendums in the netherlands and france and that the constitution must come into force in 2009 in any event. that is actually a lot worse than the european commission, which is just pretending to have a bloody nose. that's kind of a shame, too. we are here in the very bad company of the austrian eu presidency, where chancellor schussel is really outspoken in calling for new referendums in france and the netherlands, because the people must continue to vote until they finally vote what the eurocrats want. that is not so bad, because there are countries where voting is not allowed at all. in my country, for example, a matter such as the european constitution cannot be voted on and that matter must be chased through the parliaments with the karwats without democratic participation. in any case, in defiance of national democracies and the democratic will of the citizens, all the european institutions seem to be on the same page. it is not in this way that the great dislike of europe among our people will be reversed.
mr president, six months after the french and dutch votes against, the european parliament is thus going to throw this democratically expressed majority will into the trash. it seems that the constitution must be implemented in the course of 2009 no matter what. it is ironic that the report states that a european constitution must be drawn up, because, among other things, after the accession of bulgaria and romania, further enlargement is no longer possible under the present treaty of nice. everyone knows that opposition to further enlargement, and certainly to the possible accession of turkey, was one of the main reasons for the rejection of the constitution. today parliament is proving once again how far it is from the citizens it claims to represent.
in writing. the debate on the major european issues, as it has been in recent months, is largely emotional and less reflective. whether it's the constitution, the services directive, reach - to name a few - our challenge is to simplify language and communication so as not to leave the field to the populists. few institutions have so many structures and resources to support communication, but few institutions use a language whose complexity leaves room for intentional or unintentional misinterpretation. the debate on europe too often forgets two aspects: to mention together what has been achieved and to explain what is new in this context. there are essentially two major 'schools' for the future of europe. the constitution has shown, among other things, how those who want more europe and those who want less europe can bring europe to a standstill by voting together but never by thinking. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the duff report is going in the right direction, but action must follow.
mr president, the estrela report is certainly not the worst report we have adopted together in the history of this parliament. that is because we are basically agreed on the substance of the matter. women have the right to full and equal participation in the normal work process and, of course, they have the right to equal pay for equal work, although everyone knows that some progress still needs to be made in this respect. so we're all agreed on that. i would like to point out, however, that in all the countries of the european union there are also very many women who voluntarily choose to work at home in their own family and that there are many more women who would like to choose this kind of work at home in the family, if it were financially feasible. part-time work and good childcare structures are partial solutions, but the introduction of a full parental allowance for the home-working parent with minor children would be a really good measure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security system is not affected by the new legislation.
the fight against terrorism must be one of the priorities of the common foreign and defence policy. the report rightly stresses the importance of respect for human rights and civil liberties. i therefore take this opportunity to express my total and unconditional solidarity with the prime minister of denmark, who is currently under heavy pressure to speak out against cartoonists who have dared to depict the prophet mohammed. islamic countries, including eu candidate turkey, are demanding apologies and sanctions and even boycotting danish products. prime minister rasmussen is right when he says that without freedom of expression there can be no democracy. the council, the commission and parliament must stand as one man in defence of our freedoms. and if that does not happen, then it is not worth even talking about a security and defence policy, because then there is nothing left to defend at all.
i thought that my speaking time had been extended by one minute, but perhaps you could check that while i am speaking. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would like to congratulate both mr xavier solana and commissioner ferrero-waldner and the presidency on the way in which they have worked tirelessly to deal as well as possible with the disasters that have occurred, with all those painful events. i would also like to join in congratulating the european union's election observation missions in general and those who have been active in the palestinian territories in particular, because it has certainly been very difficult. i believe that from the overview that xavier solana gave us, there are two lessons to be learned. lesson number one: that the european union can only be effective if it is united; i was therefore particularly pleased to hear the day before yesterday that the general affairs council had reached a unanimous decision on the conditions under which further financial aid could be provided to the palestinian authority and i was also very pleased that there had been an emergency meeting of the quartet that evening. i cannot imagine what would have happened if one prime minister had said this, another minister had said something else and a third prime minister had come forward with a different message. it is clear that that would have been extremely unfortunate, but it has not happened and i hope that it will remain so. and of course we need unanimity on all the issues. in addition, adequate funding should be provided; i am less confident than the commissioner that this will be the case in the financial perspective for 2007-13, but i would like to stress, as she does, that there must be sufficient flexibility. finally, i agree that, in so far as you, mr high representative, commissioner, mr president, will regularly involve parliament in your work, you will continue to have our support.
president of the eu monitoring mission in the palestinian territories. mr president, my first thoughts are with the members of the mission who are still on the ground. i have received many thanks that i would like to share with them: they have done an extraordinary job. i also had a lot of help from the council, from marc otte who was there and from jeanette. but i would especially like to thank you, commissioner. you've had to guide me through some tough decisions. i'll give you two examples. first, the deployment of our mission in gaza in precarious security conditions. we were, from the beginning, the only observer mission deployed to gaza. secondly, the delicate decision, madam commissioner, to meet the candidates of the change and reform list of hamas. of course we chose the candidates we were going to meet, they were moderate candidates. but i would also like to say that we were the only mission to meet with change and reform candidates and history proves us right, since 44% of the palestinian population voted for this list. i would now like to say that we have three challenges. the first challenge - which is difficult for me too - is to respect the choice of the palestinians, a choice that was, as edward mcmillan-scott said, a choice of change and not necessarily radical islamism. not all palestinians, or at least half of them, have become radical islamists. they want change both internally and externally, with peace that is long overdue. the second challenge, madam commissioner, is not to give in to the temptation of unilateralism in the search for peace. since itzhak rabin, we have not felt the breath of bilateralism in the decisions and negotiations between israel and palestine. the withdrawal from gaza was unilateral. the presence of hamas in the palestinian government today would reinforce this unilateralism and would not lead to peace. i hope that the european union will work towards this. the third challenge is to distinguish, whatever the circumstances, the palestinian government which will have to take responsibility from the palestinian people who cannot be held hostage of their own choice. the people have made this choice, but they have basic needs which we must ensure are met, whatever the future developments, otherwise we will be heading for disaster. let me tell you to conclude what a palestinian woman said to me right after the elections. to my question: "are you not afraid of being governed by sharia law?" she replied: "no, we were not afraid to say no to the israelis who are the strongest. we were not afraid to say no to fatah because it disappointed us. we will know how to say no to hamas if it later disappoints us". that is the lesson of parliamentary democracy which the palestinians have understood perfectly well. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, apart from the question whether or not the infamous report of the european diplomats has official status, we must nevertheless say that the famous document is at least yet another proof of the far too one-sided pro-palestinian attitude of the official bodies of the european union. the european representatives constantly claim that they are, in bismarck's words, honest brokers, but in reality they are mainly defending palestinian demands and that is bad for the independence of the european union. and it must be said, by the way, that the many billions of european taxpayers' money that have been pumped into supporting the palestinian authority in recent years have served mainly to support a completely corrupt regime. i have asked the council and the commission many questions on this subject, which have been ignored time and again, and now we are faced with the fact that the matter is not resolved. the corrupt were swept away by the electoral victory of the terrorist islamic movement hamas. the european union's responsibility in this matter is crushing.
madam president, i will be brief because i have only one minute to express my disappointment that in this house our parliament has chosen to carefully avoid 'speaking the truth'. six views, seven recitals and twelve articles in this text on the outcome of the palestinian elections, while never mentioning, merely mentioning, hamas and the charter of hatred on which its ideology and action are based. mr schapira has just said how abject it is - i think that was the term used - and mr cohn-bendit has spoken of a repugnant charter. of course, i share those opinions. i would say that we deserve a nobel prize for the language of wood at a time when - and we have heard them - the quartet, the european ministers, the media, mr solana a few moments ago, are asking themselves the essential question: how can we work with hamas, how can we continue our vital assistance to the palestinians, if hamas does not renounce terror and does not recognize israel? mahmoud abbas, on the other hand, is not afraid to make his demands to the islamists. yes, the vote was democratic, in its conduct at any rate. yes, hamas has won. yes, we want to continue to help the palestinian authority. yes, well, it is up to hamas today to make the necessary decisions and change. this is what should have been said to the pragmatists on both sides, as clearly and as directly: a democratic election has just brought to power an ideology that is not democratic. that's the poignant equation we have to solve today.
mr president, it is obviously a shame that the human rights situation in that museum of stalinism, in that cuban communist dictatorship, has worsened, but i would like to point out to this house that our own european commissioner, the belgian european commissioner, louis michel, is at least partly responsible for this matter. it was louis michel who, not so long ago, after a pleasant four-day visit to havana, advised the european council not to consider diplomatic sanctions. it was also louis michel who told human rights organisations that the regime of fidel castro should not be provoked. and while human rights watch, for example, argued that the european union would only normalize its economic relations with cuba after the release of at least political prisoners and democratic reforms, michel said he was in favour of extending the cotonou agreement to cuba without conditions. louis michel is actually a friend of the adolf hitlers, the stalinists and the maoists of today, because that is fidel castro.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). mr. secretary, i must say, your performance is disappointing. you have not really answered our question, and this at a time when faith in the european union is very weak. tomorrow commissioner walström will present a white paper on communication to build confidence in the union; but i think that thousands of white papers can be written, thousands of measures can be taken; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i ask you again, why are you organizing organized irresponsibility here? why do you let member states spend 80% of european funds and do not, as the european council, ensure that individual member states, regions - as those who have the responsibility - can say that the money they spend is properly controlled and that the funds are being spent correctly. i do not understand why the council is not responding to this demand from parliament. i think you are creating a great difficulty in this house.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the considerable development of road transport over the last twenty years has led the commission to present two texts. on the one hand, a proposal for a regulation made in 2001 to simplify, clarify and update a well-known regulation for drivers, no 3820/85, which defines driving times, breaks and rest periods for drivers. on the other hand, a proposal for a directive made in 2003 to replace a 1988 directive which ensures a minimum level of control of driving and rest times in road transport. we all worked to finalise this package on 6 december 2005, after a long and difficult negotiation that lasted more than two years. the conciliation committee finally reached an agreement. parliament has made a great contribution to the progress of this matter and i would like to congratulate the chairman of your delegation, mr vidal-quadras roca, to whom mr markov has paid tribute. i would also like to pay particular tribute to the work of mr markov, mr grosch and mr piecyk, and the members of the committee on transport and tourism, who have followed the issues very closely and have made real progress with regard to the text of the council's common position. a compromise was reached on two thirds of parliament's amendments to the regulation and on more than half of parliament's amendments to the directive. i shall take the example of the introduction of a community system for establishing a common and precise classification of offences according to their gravity. such harmonisation will help to clarify the obligations imposed by the regulation, both for industry and for controllers across europe. i am talking about the whole of europe, not just the european union. at the insistence of parliament, the council and the commission have committed themselves to ensuring that the aetr agreement can be ratified by the other european countries, including russia, within two years. it is true that we have not succeeded in including the control of working time in the scope of the new directive. but i can assure you that the commission will do everything possible to ensure that the working time directive is fully and completely implemented. on 19 december the commission sent 10 reasoned opinions to the member states which had not yet notified the full transposition of the directive. the conciliation process has also led to further progress. this legislative package will generate a number of advantages and improvements over the current situation. i'm sure you do. i will give you a few examples. clear and simple limits on weekly driving hours make the text easier to understand and, of course, make it easier to monitor compliance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, of course, the increase in controls, the extraterritoriality of sanctions, the accountability throughout the transport chain. i would like to stress once again, mr president, that this progress has been achieved in large part thanks to the interventions of parliament. the controls in the field will be more coordinated, more efficient. it is not just a question of increasing them, but also of making them more efficient. finally, a word on the digital tachograph. i want to say here this morning in parliament how desirable it is that the texts under consideration should be given a favourable approval because they will enable us to make the use of the digital tachograph effective. parliament agreed with the council on a deadline for its introduction. parliament and the council issued a joint statement on this subject. pending your agreement to the legislative package, i informed the transport ministers of all member states on 12 january 2006 that i for my part would agree to extend the grace period until the deadline. i made this gesture to avoid misunderstandings. but it is clear that, beyond the date set by the legislator, that is to say, by parliament, any new lorry which is not equipped with the digital tachograph will be subject to immediate sanctions by the national authorities, including its immobilization. mr. markov, you asked me about three things. i would like to point out that the commission has immediately started work to give you the answers you are looking for. i hope that you will agree with the outcome of this conciliation and that we can finally close this case more than two years after the commission's proposal. it would be a real pity to delay the progress contained in these texts, which can then, thanks to your vote, be applied in the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we were in the conciliation procedure, and as the saying goes, in the conciliation procedure you seek compromise. it would be an exaggeration to say that the result meets all our expectations. the essential question in this work, which has been carried out at all levels, is: is this dossier going in the right direction? have we reached certain goals we set for ourselves? i can say that the ppe-de group's answer is a clear yes. we consider driving and rest periods to be a matter of safety, and anything that can clarify or improve this concept is a step forward in our eyes. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, my colleagues in the committee on transport and tourism and the commission, because i believe that they have all worked together in the same direction, although of course the expectations were different. we did a good job there. this is an important step forward, because we have analysed the problem of the important measures to be taken at european level in relation to those countries which also walk on european soil. we would have expected a little more, but we must also keep an eye on what is possible. and if we are already at the point where we know that tomorrow 42 countries 25 eu member states plus the other european countries will also accept such a thing via the aetr convention, then we have also set a clear sign in the field of security. driving and resting times are a matter of safety not just for drivers but for all road users. we have also simplified and clarified certain terms. it was rather strange to find that people talk about driving and rest periods in road transport, but the concept of driving time was not even defined yet. we have also done something even more important: we have made it quite clear that when we talk about driving and resting times, we must also be able to control the whole thing. of course, one could expect a lot more. but if you say a night's sleep is 9 hours plus 3, or 9 hours as such, then these are much better circumstances than the 8 + 1 + 1 + 1 of before. i think the council has made some correct proposals there too. a driver knows how much rest he needs to take after four and a half hours. there's the 15 minutes, there's the 30 minutes, and not all the systems that existed before. you have to imagine that i come from a border area, that you find thousands of people on the streets with different languages, with different ways of expression, and that there must be people who control this. the old model of the registers is still in place, where you have to have verbal contact and ask: what does this mean? the controllability - that both the driver and the person controlling know what is coming - is a very important step forward in my view. i think we made a number of points very clear there. the ticket writer as such is a longer story. we had already asked the commission a few questions, but we would have preferred to have concluded the whole issue of the digital tachograph in august 2004. the commission's proposals are not only a means of achieving the objectives of the treaty, but also a means of ensuring that the community's objectives are achieved. it is not so much a question of whether this happens a year earlier or later. the commission must make it clear that if we do not have this new tachograph installed in new vehicles by a certain date, we will have problems in the country and problems in the plant. i assume you'll do the work you announced and say there's no more pardon. it would be a pity and a bad sign if the countries which have done their job were to punish their companies indirectly, while the countries which continue to fail to act would go unpunished. we know the countries that are not prepared. commissioner, thank you very much. i think you have made a clear statement there: firstly, it is about safety, and secondly, it is also about unfair competition when you talk about driving and rest periods. these two aspects also mean that the whole sector is united behind such initiatives. because it cannot be that in this sector tomorrow the one who does not comply with the legal texts will make the most money. if a majority goes along with it, eventually all countries will deal with it in the same way. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. but if the countries do not want to control them systematically, there is no point in doing so. i am convinced that in many areas we do not need much new legislation. we need simplifications, we need to narrow the interpretation space a little bit, so that people in the countries know more precisely what is coming to them. without the possibility of control and equal punishment, the best directive will not do any good. i would also like to thank the commission for taking the initiative in dealing with serious crime. we will do this by consensus. i would like to ask that this result be recognised beyond the ppe-de group, because i think the whole thing is a step forward.
in writing. at least one in three european women will have been the victim of physical or sexual violence at some point in their lives. this is the startling figure drawn from the excellent report by my liberal colleague, maria carlshamre. in the face of the escalation and the normalization of violence against women, there is only one response, dignified and firm: "zero tolerance", within and outside marriage. europe has taken its responsibility to combat this form of violence which affects women from all social classes. the daphne ii programme has allocated eur 50 million for 2004-08 to protect the most vulnerable among us. this is a symbolic amount, because we know that in order to be effective, prevention and victim support policies must be implemented at national level. how shocking it is that each year between five and ten million children are witness to such inhuman acts! it is therefore essential that the 25 national criminal laws now consider children, as well as their mothers, as victims. our society has underestimated the seriousness of violence against women for too long. we must put an end to this cowardice!
in writing. to deal with equality between men and women is first and foremost to be aware of the whole path traveled for more than a century and the first struggles for women's emancipation, but it is also to keep in mind all the gap that still needs to be filled in order for gender equality to be realized in everyday life. i therefore welcome the adoption this afternoon of mrs estrela's report, which points to the various forms of discrimination against women and therefore to the many challenges to be met. to name just two: an estimated 16% pay gap, and a stagnating employment rate for women aged 15-24 despite higher education. removing barriers to women's participation in the labour market means, of course, setting up a sufficient number of public or private childcare facilities for young children, at least until they enter compulsory schooling. it is also about applying equal parental rights in practice. for all these improvements in everyday life, the european union must defend the best standards, look upwards and the success of the scandinavian countries in gender equality measures.
i would like to thank the president-in-office and the members for allowing us to speak on the organization of our work on wednesday morning. i would like to make the following proposal on behalf of my group. firstly, that the speaking time on wednesday morning will be distributed globally between the various groups and individuals, so that more time can be devoted to the very important debate under point 1. secondly, if it should be necessary to move one of the other items of discussion to a later part-session, we propose that it be the one on bosnia and herzegovina, not because we do not think it important, but because its urgency is less great and it will still be particularly useful to have a debate on it at the next part-session. thirdly and lastly, we wish to conclude this first item of the agenda with a resolution. mr president, thank you again for your understanding. i ask my colleagues and the other groups to support this proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is truly at a crossroads. the improvement in our decision-making is broken. the countries of the latest enlargement are discovering a union with less solidarity than in the era of their predecessors, as evidenced by a minimalist draft budget. the people of europe are rightly concerned about the drift of the commission and the majority of the governments of the member states to introduce rules of unrestrained competition between them. i am thinking in particular of the taxation file. if we prefer the europe of solidarity and reject that of selfishness, then, ladies and gentlemen, let us seize the opportunity to stand beside the demonstrators tomorrow at the call of the etuc, if possible with our scarves. i invite you to this meeting to show citizens all over europe that many of their elected representatives are with them and understand their legitimate concerns.
mr president, i returned last night from palestine, where i met president abbas. i would like to convey two messages in this connection: firstly, that he will address the palestinian legislative council at the end of next week and that he will be extremely firm in his positions. he is determined not to accept any government that does not accept the peace agreements and the recognition of the state of israel. so we are probably heading towards a succession of political crises in palestine, which could even lead, in a few months perhaps, to elections, at least that is his view. the second message he has given me, and which he has asked me to convey to you and to the european parliament, is that he would be very happy to accept your invitation and to take part in the march part-session. at that time he will explain in detail the situation in palestine and his policy.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, this dossier is part of the dynamic that wants the european union to stand out in terms of animal welfare compared to its competitors. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr thijs berman, who has tried to strike a balance between positions which are too different. it is true that the emphasis has been on one criterion only, that of density. it is a pity that the commission proposal advocates the automatic recording of certain data, which seems difficult to envisage and to absorb by small producers. but let's go back to density, the criterion of all the challenges. a first economic approach in the walloon region shows that for a building of 1 000 square metres, on the basis of an average income of 72 euro cents per kilo, the loss of annual income would be estimated at 55% for a density of 30 kg per square metre and 24% for a density of 38 kg per square metre. this estimated loss of revenue is unbearable for the sector. the planned disappearance of many producers in europe and stagnating or rising consumer demand will necessarily benefit imports from countries that are far from applying or even considering our standards. animal welfare would lose out across the board. so while i am sensitive to the rapporteur's arguments for moving european agriculture towards sustainable agriculture, i would like to end by highlighting two fundamental elements. firstly, the move towards higher quality comes at an additional cost to european producers. this difference should be labelled and highlighted in a way that makes it practical and explicit to explain the reason for a differentiated price that the eurobarometer respondent who is also a consumer must be prepared to pay. the large retailers have a decisive role to play in this respect. secondly, and finally, it is essential that we do our utmost to ensure that the european commission, with the help of international organisations such as the council of europe or the world organisation for animal health, succeeds in imposing greater acceptance of animal welfare measures by the wto.
president. - i have three comments on the human rights clause. first, it should be noted that the clause is rarely invoked: only 12 times since 1995. if we compare this with the number of non-democratic states with which the european union concludes treaties, we have to conclude that the clause is not used in practice for the most part. a second comment concerns the immigration and asylum policies of the member states, which the rapporteur wants to link to that human rights clause. this seems to me unrealistic and certainly undesirable, especially if third world countries are invited to criticise the reception of their own nationals seeking asylum in europe. we should make it a point to encourage such states to take back citizens who are not eligible for political asylum in our country. in practice, the opposite is often true. finally, it is not desirable to involve non-governmental organisations in the evaluation of the application of the human rights clause in relation to third countries. such political responsibility should not be given to organisations which have no democratic legitimacy whatsoever. europe needs to be more accountable for what happens to taxpayers' money.
in writing. i have of course voted in favour of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to optical radiation. this text is a continuation of three previous directives which were also designed to protect workers against the dangers of various 'physical agents' such as exposure to noise, vibration and electromagnetic fields. this directive mainly concerns radiation sources such as lasers or infrared lamps. it provides for adaptation of working methods in order to reduce the risks of radiation, the duration and the level of exposure. it also instructed the european commission to draw up a practical guide for employers, and in particular smes. this last measure deserves to be highlighted, because i believe that the union must do more for smes, which are the real spearheads of innovation and job creation in the europe of twenty-five! this applicable legislation combines flexibility for the employer and security for the employees. it is therefore a concrete example that, contrary to the ideas conveyed by neo-euro-sceptics who are experts in the no, the european union cares about workers, salaried workers and others, from the west and the east, and often advocates the levelling down of the social legislation of the member states.
i fully agree with the two previous speakers. it is true that the degree of civilization of a society is partly determined by the way in which people in that civilization treat animals, but i am also convinced that farmers, in this case the chicken farmers in our countries, can be accused of anything but cruelty or insensitivity to animals. i would like to point out, however, that our european companies are facing unfair competition from meat imports from non-european countries, such as brazil and thailand, where the standards are totally different, for example, in terms of occupancy, food safety, traceability, animal feed and antibiotics. the european broiler farmers certainly do not want to go back to the days when everything was permissible and they are prepared to breed in an animal- and environmentally-friendly way, but then we must also demand and check that all imported meat meets the same standards. unfortunately, that is not the case today. in fact, we are sadly leaving our own european growers behind.
in writing. is improving the welfare of chickens a topic worth debating in a parliamentary chamber? does it have a european dimension to justify fifty minutes of debate on chickens for meat production? these are two questions which are in themselves a starting point for an answer. it is not the first time that the european parliament has expressed its opinion on a subject which is far from the concerns of the citizens. however, i do not think that the european parliament has any interest in adopting the slogan of a "all-in-one europe" and, on the contrary, i am convinced that it has an interest in putting a stop to the regulatory frenzy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing methods. these are just a few of the many proposals that are equally uninspiring. in conclusion, europe has nothing to gain from this kind of regulation. she might leave feathers!
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. mr commissioner, mr president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to congratulate my colleague, evelyne gebhardt, on her hard work so far. i am simply in awe of her. i would also like to thank the colleagues from the other groups. i think the work we have done in the last few weeks is indeed due to see the light of day. there was no working in a closed circle or in a circle, there was every possibility for open discussion. i would also like to thank my colleagues in the committee on employment and social affairs and say that we are indeed sending an important signal, because parliament now has an important responsibility to assume. we must prove that it is possible to create an internal market for services which fully realises our social model and thus vote a directive which has nothing to do with social dumping. that is one of the signals given by the committee on employment and social affairs, ladies and gentlemen. the signals given are, i think, accepted by the people out here in the streets of strasbourg, but also by a large number of our colleagues. firstly, full respect for labour legislation, social protection, collective agreements and industrial relations, including collective action: i think there is enough material on the table for this parliament to be able to rely on to fully guarantee this. secondly, my committee said that the services directive should under no circumstances undermine existing european social legislation. the second directive is of course particularly sensitive in this respect. the services directive is often seen as a license to reduce the working conditions and wages of workers and in some countries, in many countries, there have been incidents of recent times due to malpractice. i can't help but think of laval in sweden, struik foods in belgium, irish ferries and you name it. in most cases, ladies and gentlemen, these are simply illegal practices, but the services directive threatened to make controls even more difficult, and so it is important that we make it clear that the services directive remains fully valid and that articles 24 and 25 are deleted. that's not the end of the story. yes, commissioner mccreevy, we will have to take measures to make it easier for bona fide employers to access information and to counteract bureaucratic measures, but, commissioner, we will also have to take measures to ensure that the law on secondment, which is a good law in theory, is also respected in practice. there is too much cycling around this directive, too much abuse. thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, my committee has made it clear that we really must do something about the scope of the directive. it is good that there is already a consensus to exclude social services, health services, temporary employment offices and security services from this directive, because they have a completely different logic. my committee actually felt that all services of general economic interest should not be included here, for the simple reason that they have no commercial purpose but that the primary purpose is to provide a service of public interest, i.e. to guarantee basic human rights. i think it would be a good thing if we could get it out. i can be brief on the principle of the country of origin, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on employment and social affairs considered that this principle was unacceptable. i think the compromise on the table is a good one, because it allows the countries where the service is provided to still take legislative action in the public interest. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that on thursday the european parliament will be able to send a strong signal to both the commission and the council with a new, completely amended text on the radical social adjustment of the original commission text which this european parliament wants, because only then will we be able to convince public opinion that this text from the european parliament is not a license for social dumping.
madam president, i would like to join in the thanks to evelyne gebhardt and anne van lancker for their excellent work, but also for the loyalty and the spirit of cooperation they have shown to my group and to the others. that said, after hearing malcom harbour speak after anne and evelyne, i am not really sure that the famous common text is the same for everyone, which worries me and confirms the idea expressed by heide rühle that it may be a compromise that increases legal insecurity instead of reducing it. mr mccreevy, president barroso has spoken of a misunderstanding. it is clear that the misunderstanding is partly due to this famous principle of the country of origin. we all want jobs to be created, but in order for jobs to be created, it is not enough to increase competition, it is not enough for prices to fall so that demand is expressed. demand is expressed when people have confidence, citizens and workers alike. to have confidence, they must be convinced of the fairness of the competition rules. that is why the principle of country of origin not only does not exist in the treaties legally, but would, in my view, be economically disastrous. we do not want a union of 25 in which there is competition between national rules and national rules. if we want to send positive political signals to the citizens of the new member states, let us have a budget commensurate with the solidarity we must show. let us ensure, as the commission has advised - and i say this to the presidency of the council - that all the member states lift the restrictions on the free movement of workers. let us make sure that 1 may 2006 is indeed 1 may for all workers in the 25 countries of this european union. finally, mr mccreevy, during the previous parliamentary term, a majority of the members of the european parliament speaking in plenary asked the commission twice for a proposal for a framework directive on services of general interest, or public services, to avoid these services being subject to the jurisprudence of the court of justice or to derogations from competition law. what are you waiting for to make us this offer? that was an electoral commitment we had made: to work on a framework directive on services of general interest and a directive on the internal market for services in parallel. you yourself, your attitude, your commission, by not doing so, create an imbalance, create or reinforce the distrust felt by a fraction of the citizens. in this respect, you do not support the creation of a union of 25 under the banner of solidarity between east and west and of equality for all workers.
the proposal for a services directive was extremely controversial when it was first introduced, including among the flemish christian democrats. we felt that its scope was too broad and its deregulation drive too strong, that it did not respect the division of powers between the member states sufficiently and that the proposal left too many ambiguities. all this contributed to widespread fear of the impact of this directive, which has been used and abused and has gradually become the symbol of the gap with the citizens. but at the same time we have always been aware that the completion of the internal market in services is a necessity and can make a tangible contribution to our prosperity. if we as a parliament want to take responsibility for the strategy for growth and jobs, a good services directive is our instrument of choice. we cannot leave behind a potential of 600 000 jobs. that is why we have never chosen rejection and have opted for recasting from the outset and have so far been quite successful in our approach. the fact that you read the texts and put them in context confirms this. ladies and gentlemen, the vote in the imco committee has given us as members of parliament a direction in the debate. we have shown that the proposal can be amended in such a way that the objective of eliminating red tape and irresponsible obstacles to free movement is achievable without affecting social protection. i am particularly proud of the result that our group, led by malcolm harbour, has been able to produce in the imco committee. with the help of the uen group and the liberals we have been able to push through many of our amendments and this has undeniably laid the foundations for the further persuasion and finishing exercises in the negotiations of the last few weeks. i also thank all the colleagues, including those from the socialist group who have worked on this, because together we have ensured that a good package is on the table. colleagues, let's not get bogged down in details. of course, we have our differences here and there. the sensitivities of the parties and the member states are different. but let us now look no further to the left and the right, let us look at the overall package that is ahead and that is helping us to go a long way in our collective quest for more growth and jobs. a large majority in thursday's vote, mr president, will also help us to close a threefold gap: the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one. we look forward to the proposals announced by the commission and i hope that we will achieve our objective on thursday.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the negotiations on kosovo are currently taking place under the auspices of the united nations. the stabilisation and association process is a process taking place within the framework of the european union. it would probably be unwise at this time to speculate about what would happen if this or that happened. these two processes must be continued. they must eventually merge into each other. it is also clear that whatever status is established for kosovo, kosovo must also have a european perspective, in whatever form. we should not be swayed at this stage by the question of the status negotiations but should proceed with the stabilisation and association process with regard to serbia and montenegro.
president, the president-in-office of the council is no doubt aware that during the bombing at the beginning of the war in kosovo in march '99 a great many people were kidnapped and disappeared, many thousands. as of now, 2,500 people are still unaccounted for. there is much suffering in kosovo: brothers, sisters, parents, children, don't know where their relatives are. there is a joint serbian-kosovar commission to solve this. the serbs aren't really working on that. will the president-in-office agree that one of the conditions for accession to the european union is that we cooperate in solving these human problems, that we know where the missing people are, where the bodies may be, and that they can return to kosovo?
mr president, some people say that we have been misinformed about the directive. i am very pleased that we have today amended the bolkestein directive in a fundamental way. but my question is whether this amended text will bring legal certainty. i think, like many others, that this is not the case. commissioner mccreevy, you could convince us if you were to say here today that services of general economic interest would also be best left out of this directive for you, but you have said the opposite. you are silent on a framework directive on services of general interest in all languages. finally, mr president, in our final judgment we will also take into account the fact that there is absolutely no harmonised directive. there is no question of harmonisation, on the contrary, the choice of regulation is based on the differences between the 25 member states, and i do not consider that to be a positive integration of the markets.
mr president, i think it is a shame that most european governments have shown little solidarity with denmark in this matter and it is also a shame that after most of the very cautious words of solidarity, all sorts of formulae are being used today, in a craven and cowardly manner, to avoid offending the islamist fanatics. we should all feel danish today, because the criminal actions against embassies, the boycott of danish products, the threats and the violent demonstrations are actually directed against freedom and against the whole of the free west. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. by the way, may i repeat the question for which the editor of a jordanian newspaper was arrested and put behind bars: what would create more prejudice against islam, the publication of a few caricatures or the images of muslim hostage-takers slit their victims' throats on camera? may i also ask if there is any islamic country in the world where non-believers or those of other faiths are given the respect that muslims demand of us? the question is the answer, and it is high time that we spoke clearly and asked the muslims living in europe, who rightly enjoy religious freedom, freedom of expression and all the blessings of our social services, to ask themselves what they should relate to and to realise that democracy is a matter of words and reciprocity and sometimes also of very conflicting views. if you cannot live with that, then you should take advantage of the freedom to move to one of the many countries where the rigid and often particularly cruel laws of islam already apply. i fully agree with queen margrethe ii of denmark, who has shown herself to be much more courageous than almost all the european authorities put together, and whom i am happy to quote: "we are being challenged by islam these days nationally and internationally. we have been avoiding this subject for far too long because we have been tolerant and perhaps lazy. we must show our opposition to islam and sometimes risk being labeled with unflattering labels". so let us defend free speech with our hands and our teeth. let the european countries which already have liberticidal laws restricting free political expression, such as belgium, take the initiative now to abolish these mules and thus send a clear signal to all those who are fighting freedom. let us also draw lessons from the negotiations with turkey, because turkey can never become a member state of the european union, not only because it is not a european country, but also because the basic principles of islam are incompatible with the european values of freedom, separation of church and state and equality between men and women. it is time we had the courage to say this, especially now that prime minister erdogan has the arrogance to impose restrictions on our freedom of expression. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. "europe seems to be stuck in its appetite for progress. however, it should have learned by now that you cannot tame a totalitarian monster. the more you feed it, the more thirsty it gets". mrs doornaert and her newspaper are certainly not in my political line, but we would do well to think very carefully about these prophetic words.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after two and a half years of intensive research and inspections, the international atomic energy agency cannot confirm the peaceful nature of the iranian nuclear programme and very important questions remain unanswered. the recent iranian decision to resume uranium enrichment activities and also to cease all voluntary cooperation with the agency is particularly worrying, especially in the light of the statements by the iranian president denying israel's right to exist, as well as the general tension to be resolved in iran. the referral of the matter to the security council is accelerating the process, even though it has been decided to wait for the next report to be presented by mr el barradei on 6 march. the stakes are too high. the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction is on the line. the stability of the whole region is at stake, as is the effectiveness of the international atomic energy agency itself. i rarely use strong language, but i can tell you that this issue is putting the entire international legal order under pressure. even if the conference on the revision of the non-proliferation treaty has failed, which is very regrettable, the permanent members of the un security council, china, russia and the others, you know them, are today united with the european union in preventing proliferation by peaceful means, and that is indeed a matter of modest satisfaction. it is now up to iran, ladies and gentlemen, in full transparency and renewed cooperation with the agency, to convince the world that it has only peaceful aims in mind.
mr president, we have known for some time that there is a consensus that we cannot allow a regime of religious fanatics to have weapons of mass destruction. that's not why we had this debate. the relevant question is whether action should not have been taken much earlier. but let me take this moment to point out the hypocrisy that europe and the united states often display in this kind of affair in order to be able to pursue realpolitik. it was france, after all, which gave shelter and asylum to ayatollah khomeini and helped to ensure that the shah's persia could slip into obscurantism. if we are rightly shocked today by the barbaric execution of minors in tehran, which is also playing a leading role in the incitement against denmark, should we not also ask what is the situation with human rights in the great islamic country of saudi arabia, which is supposed to be america's and our great ally? not to mention the nuclear-armed pakistan. what are we gonna do if there's an ahmadi nejad up there tomorrow?
president, president-in-office, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to protest against the fact that mr posselt has described the delegation of mr paddy ashdown as a liberal dictatorship. asdown's administration was certainly forceful, but i object both to the substantive dictatorship and to the adjective liberal. that said, bosnia-herzegovina has been a guinea pig for 15 years now, and the bosnian, croat and serb populations have known that. first, as a guinea pig for a collapsing communist state, then as a guinea pig for an eu which, at that time, more than ten years ago, had no real foreign or security policy, as a guinea pig for nato in search of a new mission, and, unfortunately, as a guinea pig for all those who live in violence and war throughout the world. in recent years, it was a modern protectorate. i hope that both the eu and the leaders in bosnia-herzegovina will seize the prospect of a stability and association agreement to make their country a mature state on the road to european union accession.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after having analysed the report by mrs mcguinness, whose work i welcome, i would like to highlight a few points. firstly, it is our responsibility to ensure that the european union's rural strategy is developed and constructed as the explicit reference for any community policy or programme affecting rural areas. unfortunately, the commission's proposal limits its ambition to the implementation of the future rural development regulation and therefore does not allow for the establishment of bridges between rural, regional or social development policies. in reference to the lisbon strategy, the rural strategy should, mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, make a greater contribution to socioeconomic and territorial cohesion for all rural populations. the territorial conditions must be enabled and supported, in particular by creating or strengthening networks for the exchange of knowledge and improving the living conditions of rural populations. these conditions should not, moreover, encourage migration from cities to the countryside. finally, mr president, i think that we must encourage citizen participation and stimulate citizenship. these issues are of major importance for the construction of a democratic territorial identity. in conclusion, the commission should establish a dialogue area with the existing european networks and support their operation, while preserving their independence. this would help to boost relations with the actors on the ground.
mr president, if i think it useful, for the first time, to justify my vote, it is both because this report is important, perhaps the most important of the legislature, and because my vote is in breach of the majority position of my group. i have no difficulty in admitting that progress has been made - and i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs gebhardt - compared with commissioner bolkestein's initial proposal. i am, however, still concerned about the uncertainties surrounding article 16. although i voted in favour of the compromise amendments on this report, i cannot endorse it and have chosen to reject it in the end, because it represents a serious historical break with the principles which have, up to now, helped to advance the construction of europe. solidarity and regulations give way to competition between the countries and peoples of europe. i'm sorry to hear that.
the fact is, mr president, that the text on the services directive which we have just adopted is much better than the original version. in particular, the principle of the country of origin, which is unacceptable to me, has not yet been completely abolished, but it has already been weakened considerably. at the same time, the text we have adopted today also contains a great many ambiguities. no man at this time really knows the correct implication of a great many things. i am not yet convinced, for example, that this text cannot lead to social dumping and i am particularly concerned about the capacity to monitor its application. the numerous and even institutionalized abuses in the implementation of normal european budgets, for example, may well make us doubt the efficiency of control at european level. i therefore abstained from voting because this is a step in the right direction and a very important one, but there are still too many ambiguities which must be removed from the text by the second reading. i can only hope that i shall be able to vote in favour without any problems on the second reading.
the amendments made today in this half-hour debate to the original text of the services directive are, of course, a good thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the directive in its original form indeed institutionalized social dumping, but the current text still allows abuse and a form of social dumping and does not establish in unambiguous terms the primacy of the country of destination. is it not illustrative that the establishment of the observatory requested by the uen group to ensure that the directive does not lead to social dumping has been rejected? our abstention is therefore a political warning that my party, vlaams belang, will, as it did last month when discussing the liberalization of port services, oppose the undermining of the principle of working for one's own people first.
mr president, my negative vote on the gebhardt report does not mean that i am dismissing the extraordinary work that the rapporteur has done. i really think that with a terrible text, evelyne gebhardt has done something. but it has not been able, despite all its efforts, to stem a liberal wave which is threatening our entire social fabric. from compromise to compromise, this obscure text has become unreadable. but what is very clear to anyone who wants to open their eyes is the abandonment of a desire for harmonization on the part of the commission in favour of a case-by-case regulation of what can or cannot be done in the name of the general interest. without a directive on services of general interest and services of general economic interest, this text leaves grey areas which will open the way to countless legal remedies. europe is moving further away from the citizen.
in writing. i voted against the report on the services directive in the final vote for three reasons. the improvements made by parliament to the commission's draft are not, in my view, sufficient. a number of sectors of the public service, the so-called services of general economic interest, are unjustly left out of the scope of the directive. for example, garbage collection and water distribution are not covered by this service directive. the right to public services should also be enshrined in a framework law. (2) several parts of the directive can be interpreted in an ambiguous way. there is a scepticism in public opinion about europe today, and so legal uncertainty about legislation can be seen as a toothache. 3) this is not the way to build a social and reliable europe with the same harmonised rules of the game throughout the internal market. i am glad, however, that several sensitive sectors such as port services, the temporary employment sector, elderly care, health care and childcare have been excluded from the service and that the social achievements of each country are preserved, so that social dumping is not possible. i have supported the amendments on this, as well as all the amendments which improved the text and brought more clarity.
in writing. the adoption of the services directive is a significant step forward for the european union. the main elements of the initial draft were nevertheless maintained and the text adopted will contribute to the success of the lisbon strategy, as the most recent studies of the european commission show. this directive will encourage activity in the service sector, which is a very important source of employment. this will be a key asset, especially for belgium, whose economy is strongly service-oriented. the amendments introduced by the committee on the internal market have addressed the main concerns of public opinion by clarifying the scope of the directive and putting an end to a long campaign of disinformation. the first epp-pse compromise proposal stripped the proposal for a directive of all meaning. fortunately, the final compromise - even if it does not evoke enthusiasm - is a first step which is better than nothing and meets the main concerns of the proponents of the directive. it is now up to the council to confirm and improve the final compromise reached by parliament.
in writing. the european parliament has certainly made history today in european parliamentary democracy by voting on the so-called bolkestein directive. by reconciling the irreconcilable, the position of france and poland, that of the etuc and unice, that of the progressive socialists and the liberal moderates, this vote represents a step forward towards a europe of citizens. a european union which does not compromise with social dumping but does not forget the removal of protectionist barriers to the free provision of services and the freedom of establishment. yes, our parliament is coming out of this vote in a big way. not only has it fully fulfilled its role as legislator - for example by abolishing the principle of country of origin - but it has also avoided the trap set by a coalition of eurosceptics and frivolous non-nons who, struck with amnesia, seem to have forgotten that on 1 june 2004 we were celebrating european reconciliation. by favouring the policy of extending a hand to our friends in the ten new member states, we have simply brought down a new berlin wall. in our heads this time, and for a long time i hope!
in writing. anyone who has followed the debate on the services directive closely will be surprised to find that the compromise between the conservatives and the social democrats is interpreted in different ways. one group on the right defends the compromise as "not affecting the principle of the country of origin principle", while the left sees it as "a final end to the same country of origin principle". so, you're saying that this is a flagrant contradiction. the compromise also does not clarify the extent to which member states may impose strict conditions on the provision of certain services in their territory and thus prevent social dumping. the epp and pse have also dropped the reference to social policy and consumer protection. it is a good thing that parliament has succeeded in excluding a whole range of services from the scope of the directive. on the other hand, services of general economic interest are still largely covered by the directive. the revised bolkestein directive contains a great deal of legal ambiguity and will therefore again cause a great deal of litigation before the european court of justice. the revised text certainly does not provide the necessary transparency and legal certainty. the greens were particularly concerned about the exclusion of services of general economic interest and the removal of the country of origin principle from the final text. our wishes on this point have not been met. that is why i voted against it in the end.
in writing. we are reduced to 200 words maximum because the group chairmen decided in a small caucus that our debate on freedom of expression would be deprived of it! one speaker per group, a real democratic confiscation while this cartoon affair is making headlines around the world and putting a part of it under fire and blood. is it enough to say that the cartoon that set fire to the powder was telling nothing but what terrorists do: perpetrate their acts in the name of allah? it's not a caricature of islam, it's a caricature of fanaticism. have we denounced enough the amalgamation that is made between a cartoonist, a newspaper and a people, a government? freedom of the press, freedom of speech, which is the foundation of our values. yes, i want to strengthen the ties between our cultures but i will not accept any bargaining of our values. human rights before the law of allah, or any god... if there is any slip, abuse, incitement to hatred, it is for the courts to judge but i reject censorship. i will not allow anyone to extinguish the lights i claim.
i would like to ask the president-in-office today to call parliament's attention to the situation of the kurds in turkey, because last weekend we received the terrible news that the elderly parents of the president of the kurdish institute in brussels were brutally murdered in turkish kurdistan. there are indications that this was the work of turkish assassination squads. unfortunately, this is not an isolated incident, because every week we hear of crimes of this kind against the kurds. you know that the second man in the turkish army was even named last week as the organizer of a criminal gang whose aim is to eliminate kurdish separatists. i have therefore written to commissioner rehn asking him to order a thorough and independent investigation by the commission into the circumstances of these brutal murders, which must not go unpunished. i hope that the european parliament in its committees and the turkish delegation will pay due attention to these events.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of my report, the relocation of companies, is a delicate but nonetheless topical one. i immediately perceived this delicate aspect when i presented my first draft report to the committee on regional development. i have rarely seen such a passionate debate in committee, although i am still a young member of parliament. the fact remains that the clash of ideas often brings about a light and i think we have arrived at a well balanced text, which sets out several interesting ideas and which allows us to demystify, clarify and better understand the complex mechanisms of a real social problem. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the fictitious rapporteurs and all the colleagues who have contributed to the preparation of this report. ladies and gentlemen, many of us in this chamber, perhaps not tonight but in general, have seen that relocations often have significant economic consequences for the region affected. but relocation also means, and this affects us, job losses and tragedy for the families who are victims. the weakness of the european statistical tool in this area is a first preliminary observation i was given to make when preparing this report. i have also noted that this house has already dealt with this matter in other reports. in a first resolution of 13 march 2003 on the closure of firms which have received financial aid from the european union, parliament pointed to the major danger posed by relocations to the primary objective of regional policy, namely economic and social cohesion. then there was the resolution of 6 july last by our colleague mr hatzidakis on the reform of the structural funds. on that occasion parliament made several proposals on relocations. my report, of course, takes up the ideas contained in the resolutions previously adopted by the european parliament: i have tried to reproduce the essential principles of those resolutions. after recalling that the objective of regional development policy is to promote the development of the regions of the european union and that public aid should not be used to encourage the relocation of economic activities, the report voted by our committee on regional development proposes that measures be adopted, both at community and national level, to prevent the potential negative consequences of relocations on economic development and the social disasters generated by them. first, we ask for a tool to give us access to more accurate information. we therefore propose to entrust the dublin observatory with the task of studying, assessing and monitoring the phenomenon of relocations in order to objectively assess their impact on the economic, social and cohesion and regional development policies. in addition to the tool, and in the absence of better coordination of our national social systems, the committee on regional development believes that it has become imperative to adopt a comprehensive european strategy for preventing, supervising and monitoring the relocation of companies within the union but also outside it. we propose a number of measures which we address very specifically in the report. firstly, we ask the commission to take all the necessary measures to prevent - and i believe this is a key element of this report - european regional policy from being an incentive to relocation. secondly, we support the commission's proposal to penalize companies which have received aid from the european union and relocate their activities within seven years. we also ask that, in the event of non-compliance with national and international legislation, these same companies should no longer be able to receive public aid for their new place of business. we ask the commission to consider measures in respect of relocations which i regard as reverse relocations, i.e. those which lead to a deterioration in employment conditions without relocating the business of the company. we believe that the granting and maintenance of public aid to enterprises must be subject to specific commitments in the field of employment and local development. we suggest that the commission should develop a mechanism to impose more severe penalties on publicly supported companies which relocate all or part of their activities outside the european union. we also call on the commission to include social clauses in international treaties and to support the implementation of these social clauses with positive measures and incentives for countries and companies that comply with them. we support the commission's proposal to create a globalisation fund to prevent and deal with the economic and social shocks resulting from restructuring and relocation. finally, the committee on regional development believes that the consequences of the many relocations must lead us to open and constructive reflection on the question of creating a genuine european social area. in this respect, we believe that social dialogue has a major role to play in preventing relocations and in addressing their effects. ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, and as has been said many times, the european union is going through a major crisis. what is serious about this crisis is certainly the loss of confidence or lack of interest of the citizens in this great project of european integration. whether through this resolution on relocations or through other texts, we, the members of the european parliament, who are elected by the people of europe, have a duty to listen to these concerns. i think that the report we voted on in committee contains some interesting ideas and provides an answer to the legitimate questions that our fellow citizens have in this area.
mr president, to be clear, i voted against the gröner report not because i am against equality between men and women, far from it, but because this report and the gender equality institute it contains (what a word!) illustrate the suffocating political correctness that europe is increasingly embracing. the charter of fundamental rights, a politically correct left-wing policy document enforced by the equally politically correct fundamental rights office, the job quotas and the other measures proposed in the dead but reappearing european constitution all fall within the same ideology. let us for the love of god drop these things and concentrate on the really important issue, namely that women have the right to be involved in the whole labour process on an equal footing with men and to receive equal pay for equal work. we all agree on that. everything else is just political correctness.
in writing. by adopting my colleague marios matsakis' report on the community strategy on mercury on tuesday, the european parliament has sent a strong signal to the international community: the most toxic chemicals must be strictly controlled and europe of the twenty-five must lead by example by prohibiting their export quickly. this is the lot of the future for mercury, a heavy metal which is toxic to humans and ecosystems and of which europe is the world's largest exporter. i particularly welcome the adoption of paragraph 17 which proposes to limit the use of mercury in dental amalgams by the end of 2007. parliament thus confirms its vote of 25 january 2005 on my report on the european environment and health action plan, which in point 6 proposed the use of safer alternatives to mercury used in dental amalgams. it was common sense that won out here. human exposure should be kept to a minimum. it is therefore equally essential that the european union quickly finds a solution to the treatment of the 12 000 tonnes of mercury waste that will be produced over the next 15 years by the chlorine and soda industry.
on behalf of the alde group. - mr president, commissioner, recent figures from your services, which you have apparently known for a long time, have taught us that since the liberalisation of european imports last year, monthly imports of shoes from china have increased by 400% and in some cases by as much as 900%. you have just announced dumping duties. some say "too little and too late". they believe you could have prevented something by being more alert, by reacting more quickly. the european footwear industry is a relatively small sector, limited to four european countries and even largely localised. the question is whether this is a sufficient reason to let this sector disappear altogether, especially if it has to fight - and you yourself have said that - against unfair trade practices such as dumping or direct and hidden state aid. the free market today is a socially corrected market where there are global rules of the game which must be observed by every participant. this is clearly not the case here. china wants the benefits of who membership, but forgets that there are obligations that come with it. it is clear that this threatens to disrupt the entire world market. yesterday textiles, today shoes, what will it be tomorrow? why, commissioner, was there no response earlier? or is the commission really afraid of facing the big yellow giant china? and above all, can the commissioner explain to us how we should explain the benefits of this kind of globalisation to the workers in the european footwear industry, who are now in danger of losing their jobs as a result of unfair competition?
president, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago belgium once again became the laughingstock of the european union when our national security forces managed to let a dangerous terrorist from the turkish terrorist movement dhkp-c fehriye erdal escape without a minister having to take responsibility. it was the day before she was sentenced to four years in prison. in other member states, dhkp-c has long been categorised as a dangerous terrorist group, but not in belgium, where erdal was able to obtain undisturbed shelter and asylum. i have to think about this, mr president, as we evaluate the evolution of the european arrest warrant. if we are to move towards uniform rules and procedures to combat crossborder crime and terrorism effectively, including the european arrest warrant, then i can only conclude from this kind of blunder that the european union still has a very long way to go.
president of the eu monitoring mission in the palestinian territories. mr president, i had the opportunity with my colleague mcmillan-scott to meet president abbas for three quarters of an hour last night and i would like to express to you, sincerely, the shock we have felt at the recent events and the anger they have aroused in us. you said, mr president, that it was fate or chance: it has nothing to do with fate or chance. the fact that the jericho prison was attacked, even though the palestinian president is in europe today to plead his case, taking with him saeb erakat, the strongman of jericho, is not a coincidence. the presentation of prisoners half-naked, blindfolded, with their arms bound, is not a coincidence in a country that is, as we know, being skinned. nothing can unleash violence, and the cartoon business is not that far off. we are therefore faced today with a very serious event which, as mr brok has just said, seeks to undermine the man who is the guarantor of stability with israel, but who is also the guarantor of resistance to hamas, in order to lead it along the path of pacification. that is what we have tried to achieve today. i do not know who will benefit from the crime, but i do know that we here in the european parliament must not be fooled or share responsibility for this crime: we must denounce it. it is true that the situation is difficult, it is true that negotiations were under way about the prisoner saadate, it is true that this prisoner was involved in the murder of an israeli minister, which itself followed the assassination of a pflp official. are we going to start this cycle of violence again? we must say no, we must keep our cool, but we must firmly denounce what happened yesterday. this is really, really, really serious, mr president. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr barroso, mr verheugen, i am an environmentalist, but i am not going to talk to you about energy. i have colleagues, whom you know, who are very knowledgeable about the subject. i would like to talk about the role of the commission in the lisbon strategy. you have rightly stressed on many occasions that for this strategy to succeed, it needs broad popular support and the proper involvement of national parliaments and all the actors. i think that the commission should send two clear messages to that end. the first message is that the lisbon strategy does not mean a tiered competition between member states. we are, on the contrary, in favour of a model of cooperation and solidarity between the member states. the second message is that in a european union of 25 member states there can be no first-class citizens or second-class workers. i would now like to give you three concrete examples, on which i would expect you to give a more offensive message. the first example is the free movement of workers. you have referred to it, you have published a report - which is very good - and you welcome the fact that some national states are aligning themselves with the commission. i would expect the president of the commission and the college to say to those states which do not want to or are reluctant to join the european union: 'gentlemen, you are going the wrong way. secondly, on the services directive, parliament has rejected the principle of the country of origin, the ppo. what was the problem with that principle? the reason is that the single market was not intended to be based on competition between national rules without sufficient harmonization. the commission has already made it clear that it will not accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. in other words, the directive on the posting of workers must be strengthened and you have the prerogatives to do so. thirdly, on the question of taxation developments in europe, the commission has made progress on the issue of the harmonization of the tax base in the context of corporate taxation. you must, in 2007-08, table a report on the budget and future resources of the european union. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. in other words, mr barroso, i expect you to implement the lisbon strategy not only by following the member states, even though they have an important role to play, but also by going beyond your role as an honest broker, an impartial intermediary, and by actually finding the strength to defend the european interest, which is threatened by the rise of national setbacks, because you have a monopoly on the legislative initiative.
president, the lisbon strategy must ensure that europe becomes the strongest economy in the world. i think that is an objective on which there is a great deal of consensus in this european parliament. although i do have some questions about the way in which this is being achieved. i can only say that today's europe is still predominantly concerned with subsidies and far too little with investment and innovation. the european commission, as well as the member states, has a heavy responsibility in this area. while the commission had proposed to double spending on science and development to €10 billion a year from 2007, this was blocked by the european council, as it would require significant cuts in agricultural subsidies, regional subsidies and also in the structural funds. when i think of the european structural funds, i automatically think of the bottomless pit of wallonia, for example, into which millions of euros are pouring every year without any structural change because it is blocked by a pervasive and corrupt socialist party. this is now confirmed by all kinds of welsh politicians and leading economists. then someone like mrs danuta hübner, the european commissioner for regional policy, comes along and says that wallonia is making good use of the structural funds and that the walloon projects are indicative of the so-called remarkable structural changes taking place in that region. however, coming from someone who is partly responsible for the follow-up to the lisbon strategy, this raises some questions.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i do not normally spend any time on compliments, but in this debate i would really think it would be inappropriate not to express appreciation for the rapporteurs lehne and goebbels. they deserve our congratulations on the more than decent motion for a resolution they have prepared, which we fully support. as coordinator of my group in the lisbon steering group, i would naturally also like to involve my group colleagues who have provided the necessary input. the debate on this resolution in parliament has been much more constructive than last year and i hope that this is a good sign of the increased implementation of the renewed strategy for growth and jobs. the midterm review is clearly bearing fruit, the member states seem to be cooperating, and i wish the most courageous member states perseverance and the others the courage of conviction to start or to speed up. but of course we also have a responsibility as a european institution and in this connection i welcome the intentions of both the commission and the council presidency to move quickly on the services directive and to respect the difficult balance we have achieved after much work in the european parliament. colleagues, we know the nature and extent of the challenge facing europe, we like to live well in europe and we want to keep it that way, but in order to realise our dream, to preserve our prosperity and to maintain our so-called social model, we must become a competitive global player. as the german president said yesterday - i cannot say it better - we must also have the courage to become so much better when we are more expensive. we need to turn our restlessness into creativity, and we need to trust that only by changing will we preserve the potential to realize our ambitions. president. - ladies and gentlemen, we know what we have to do, let us act consistently on all fronts, we have no other alternative.
in writing. for example, in the field of information policy, if the general principle in paragraphs 17, 28 and 62 (reduction of non-value-added activities) is applied, there are, in my view, serious changes to be implemented! every day we receive brochures with information written by "experts". i am convinced that to inspire confidence in european citizens it is better to inform them through the media that usually reach them where they are, rather than designing expensive brochures that they will not read or understand. another area where the principles of the report should be applied is that of 'auxiliary sessions'. the rapporteur calls for the recruitment of longterm staff rather than contract staff. if this principle is upheld - and i am one of them - what status will be proposed at the end of this year to the 300 auxiliary staff whose contracts cannot be renewed in their present form, following the disappearance of the legal basis provided for in article 78 of the 'regime applicable to other servants'?
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which encourages more environmentally friendly fishing methods. the priority now is to reduce the intensity of fishing activity in order to allow the recovery of stocks. we know this is a sensitive matter, but it's urgent. indeed, 46% of the 28,000 fish species worldwide are threatened. furthermore, the united nations ecosystem assessment programme points out that 25 percent of commercial species are overexploited. the social and economic imperatives must of course be taken into account and the fisheries sector, which is already subject to too many constraints, must not be penalized. reduction of fishing activity may be considered if it is linked to compensation. but other measures can bring significant results, such as strengthening the fight against pollution from ships or promoting sustainable fishing methods. the sustainability of fisheries resources is a key objective and it is in this spirit that i have oriented my report for opinion on the commission communication on a community approach to eco-labelling programmes for fishery products.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, i had hoped that a strong and positive message would have come out of the balkan conference. i believe that was also the hope of both the presidency-in-office and the commission. you each can ill afford to voice your disappointment, so i will do it for you. we all acknowledge that the entire balkan region remains volatile and potentially unstable, which is why clarity is absolutely indispensable. the joint press statement, notably weaker than previous declarations, states that the future of the western balkans lies in the european union. we note the absence of any mention of membership. it adds that a debate on enlargement strategy is due in 2006 and that the eu’s absorption capacity has to be taken into account. that is disappointing. i will come back to that during the debate on the brok report. allow me to comment on the middle east. i fully share my group chairman’s reaction to the deplorable and unacceptable behaviour of israel in jericho yesterday, not to mention the strange behaviour – to say the least – of us and british troops. needless to say, that action makes the eu’s position more difficult. while my group strongly agrees that hamas must renounce violence and endorse existing international treaties and agreements, we must note with sadness that israel is making it increasingly difficult to hold this line. we will nevertheless do so, but we must also make it very clear that actions like those witnessed yesterday run totally counter to the search for a peaceful outcome.
i would like to point out, mr president, a number of imperfections and contradictions in the report on turkey. the report lists such a list of fundamental problems that it is inexplicable that it does not reach the only logical conclusion, that it was a huge mistake to start negotiations on turkey's accession to the european union. there are the violations of the rights of national and religious minorities - mr belder has just dealt with this extensively. there is still the problem of torture, the problem that, among other things, article 301 of the criminal code does not guarantee freedom of expression and freedom of the press. there is the fact that turkey is flagrantly failing to fulfil its obligations in relation to the customs union. the turkish authorities have not yet been able to obtain the necessary information to enable them to carry out their duties. we have also seen in recent weeks an escalation of tensions between the turkish authorities and certain kurdish groups. no less than the number two in the turkish army is accused of staging a bombing to blame it on the kurds. some military men see in this accusation the hand of the government which would like to destabilize the general in question because of his attitude towards muslim fundamentalism. here and there the possibility of a new military coup is even raised, should the situation escalate further. admittedly, the prospects of such a country joining the european union in a few years are not very attractive. actually, we should say, it's completely absurd. the report rightly points out that the european union's absorption capacity is also part of the copenhagen criteria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president, madam president-in-office, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr brok's report raises pertinent questions and provides answers, even if i do not agree with all of them. it also reflects the doubt many have about further enlargement. that's why so much emphasis is placed on storage capacity. it would even have a geographical dimension if the report were adopted without amendments. i agree with the vast majority of my group that the effective implementation of the absorption capacity does not require a prior geographical delimitation of the union. the first thing to be done is to define the union politically, which will not be easy either. the most important thing is that the union honours its promise of enlargement, especially with regard to the western balkans. the countries in question are still years away from possible membership, but the time has come to make very clear agreements on this and even to fill a time gap; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i understand that the president-in-office said exactly that in her reply. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that vagueness about eventual membership can only delay the fulfilment of the criteria, because such vagueness would be used as an excuse and, mr president, that has not served anyone.
president, commissioner, you know that a great many eyes in belgium are on you at the moment. the general expectation is that you will make it clear to the new french merger groups suez and gaz de france that their position in such a small market as the belgian one is unsustainably monopolistic. i know that your services have not yet been officially notified of the merger, but that does not mean that you are not already sending a clear signal. a signal that such conditions are contrary to european regulations. the new merged group will account for more than 90% of gas distribution in belgium alone. i hope you can confirm that a company with such a concentration of the market will be obliged to divest a significant part of its activities. you, mrs kroes, are now the only guarantee for consumers - and by that i mean both private individuals and industry - that they will not have to pay an unacceptably high price for their gas and electricity in the future. you also have the power to restore at least part of the public's confidence in europe. you can do that by making it clear to those big, mega-industrial groups that they are abusing liberalisation, that what they are doing is illegal and contrary to those competition rules. you have also said that you will shortly be making new proposals to put an end to the concentration of power in the distribution of energy, a bundling as it is called. i wonder if you can confirm that you mean that large producers will be obliged to divest their block-holding shares in distribution companies. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. you have a reputation for being a tough aunt, and we would greatly appreciate it if you would make that reputation tough in the coming weeks.
mr president, commissioner, the events in jericho which prevented us from meeting mahmoud abbas are not a mere incident. they have political significance. the first target is certainly mahmoud abbas, because as soon as he left his country the assault on the prison was launched by the israeli forces. but he's not the only one. we didn't say that ahmed saadate was a newly elected member of the palestinian legislative council. it was not said or stressed that hamas, which had taken some timid steps towards recognizing the state of israel in its 1967 borders, could not, after the humiliating images of these half-naked, bound, blindfolded prisoners, go further in recognizing israel. the camouflage has also been for us europeans. we were waiting for mahmoud abbas, but he didn't come. our whole policy towards palestine is at stake. and today, in the face of our offices being ransacked and our citizens being kidnapped, members of this house are saying to me: we, the main donors, are not going to continue to fund palestine! what an ingrate! that's the effect of jericho. i would like to say to those who are hesitant to support palestine that there is not a single palestinian today who would not exchange the money we give to palestine for a clear political position of the european union on current events. for can we today remain silent that israel has chosen a unilateral and safe path, which has nothing to do with the road map anymore. the olmert plan is unilateral, as was the disengagement - applause for that - from gaza, as is the annexation of the jordan river and the seizure of east jerusalem. this is the reality of palestine: an endless occupation, a wall condemned by the hague, but still standing. and all the money we give to palestine to help it survive does not allow it to escape this reality. in other words, peace today is going backwards. in conclusion, madam commissioner, if we need a plan b to help palestine, we also need, and above all, europe to take a courageous and clear political position. how else do you expect the palestinians to have any hope and to believe us when we talk about the road map?
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf, on the remarkable work he has done to improve information and protection for producers, processors and consumers, without, however, being conservative protectionists but, on the contrary, showing respect and appreciation for our know-how. this is not to everyone's liking, however, and the best proof of this is the rise of shields in the united states and australia. these states want geographical indications to be accepted only exceptionally and to be limited to certain wines and spirits. the european union must defend geographical indications with all its strength and must show great diplomatic skill, particularly in the context of the forthcoming negotiations for the transposition of the hong kong decisions. geographical indications are an excellent means of achieving a qualitative approach to international trade. unfortunately, there is no sign of a lasting commitment to geographical indications within the wto. the european commission must be able to play an important role in this respect. let us therefore be aware that quality and recognition are the hope for the future of european agriculture.
mr president, commissioner, health and consumer protection are two areas - and this is being confirmed and is continuing to be confirmed from eurobarometer to eurobarometer - in which citizens are asking for more from europe, and in this respect i would like to thank our two rapporteurs, mr trakatellis and, for this afternoon, mrs thyssen, who have shown good sense in proposing to split the two programmes. that being said, i would also like to join with all those who are standing with professor trakatellis, with you, commissioner, and with many others who have spoken in favour of an ambitious health programme, even though we know that we will not get the requested one and a half billion euros, nor will we reach the symbolic 1% of the european budget. we will therefore be forced to make painful sacrifices. that is why i think it is important to focus our action on the five to seven diseases which are the main causes of death in europe. we must therefore take the who's advice into account and support amendment no 142 proposed by the liberal group, and we must not be afraid to name certain diseases and to make a concerted effort to prevent, for example, cardiovascular diseases and various cancers, because ambition does not mean dispersion. the citizens are asking for europe to be efficient and transparent: it is not a question of disappointing them by sprinkling them with water. they also ask us to be responsive and reassuring, especially today. as such, the european centre for disease prevention and control in stockholm cannot be left without a decent budget. it was launched in 2005 after the sars outbreak two years ago. it is therefore in our best interests to see the cepmc fulfil its mission, now that avian influenza has landed on our continent. finally, commissioner, i would like to ask you and the council: how will you finance the health and environment action plan and make it coexist with this new public health programme? europe must, as we know, give itself the means to combat environmental pollution, which affects the most vulnerable among us, pregnant women, children. protecting our youngest citizens also means giving the europe of tomorrow every chance.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a very important report because it sets out the community action programmes in the field of public health for the next six years, which cannot be completed by the member states individually. i think i can say that the rapporteur has succeeded perfectly in dealing with all the relevant and specific aspects of such a large and sensitive area, which is public health. i am particularly pleased that for the first time the possibility is being provided for to include complementary and alternative medicine in the actions, allowing the citizen to make more informed and responsible choices in relation to his own health. i am well aware that alternative therapies are still too often greeted with a hoot, but the many people who benefit from them are, of course, proof to the contrary. and yet the european commission itself gives a figure which says that no less than 30% of the population and several hundred thousand doctors and therapists are asking for it. a better understanding of this complementary medicine for our public health will be an important step forward. i also strongly support tackling the problem of organ shortages across the union; the establishment of common donor and recipient platforms and the development of activities to improve organ safety and quality can help in this regard. as a member of the committee on the environment, i would like to stress the impact of environmental factors on health. all too often people remain uncertain about the impact of exposure to certain toxic substances, for example. the provision of unambiguous information, backed up by scientific research, could prevent a great deal of human suffering and also avoid misunderstandings. the action programme provides for specific measures in the field of prevention, detection, awareness-raising and information in the event of serious illness. as a member of the newly formed mac, here in the bosom of parliament, the meps against cancer, i can only applaud these concrete steps. but there is one point which is still on my mind and on the minds of many other colleagues. until agreement is reached on the financial perspective for the next period, this action programme will of course remain a dead letter. the need is great, the ambition is even greater, and parliament will have to ensure that the necessary resources are actually made available in the coming months. (applause from the left)
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs thyssen, and the members of parliament and the members of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for their excellent and close cooperation and the support they have expressed for the consumer programme. i would like to apologise in advance for repeating some things i have already said regarding the health part of the programme. however, given that we are having separate debates, it is important to make some statements again in relation to the consumer programme. the problem of the budget is again a similar one: a reduced budget means reduced policies and, again, it means less money for the union of 27 – 25 plus 2 – than we had for the 15. in the age of consumer protection, where we have to take strong initiatives, especially in the new member states and the acceding member states, this will cause serious problems and will of course affect the assistance we offer to consumer organisations, especially as regards funding of projects and training of staff. on the same issue, i would like to remind you again of the letter sent by president barroso to president borrell raising these concerns, explaining that if the compromise stays in place it would mean less money than we had in 2006 and asking for additional efforts in this area. again, as in the health area, if eventually we are left with such a major cut or reduction in our funding, it will mean that we cannot spread it thinly over many actions. limited funds mean we have to re-evaluate and prioritise and decide where we actually want to concentrate, where we can achieve the greatest benefit. i hope that this can be corrected, that eventually the funding will be provided and that we will be able to cover the programme as it was proposed. on splitting the programmes, i have to repeat that i fully understand the position of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection in this respect. i understand why it would prefer to have two separate programmes. as i said earlier, we believe that there would be some added value if we adhered to a merged programme, where we clearly distinguish between actions in health and in consumer protection; but we can benefit from having common areas and achieve better economies of scale. nevertheless, given that the financial perspectives negotiations are still ongoing, this would and will affect the commission’s position on the splitting of the programme. at this point, therefore, we cannot take a final decision regarding splitting and have to reject the amendments relating to splitting. on the conclusion of the debate on the financial perspectives, the commission will review this issue again. i repeat that parliament has made its wishes very clear and i have taken note of the very strong – almost unanimous – position of parliament. i shall not comment on the amendments separately. a full list of the commission’s position on each of the amendments is being made available to parliament and i should be obliged if it could be included in the verbatim report of this sitting commission’s position on amendments by parliament: see annex.. the amendments we are rejecting relate mostly to the splitting, and we are doing so either for the reason i explained earlier or because they go beyond the scope of community consumer policy. it is not that we disagree with the substance of these proposals, but that we feel they go a bit further than the scope of community consumer policy and – given the existing situation – we would not be able to finance some of them. we agree on the other issues, especially as regards the need to integrate consumer interests into other policies. i count on parliament’s support to ensure that consumer interests are given proper attention in many other key consumer policy initiatives. that is a brief overview of the commission’s position on this issue. i look forward to a very interesting debate.
- i'm the reporter. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the imco, i wish to confirm explicitly what has already been made clear in the previous debate. the commission is also against an integrated programme for public health and consumer protection and, with the support of the conference of presidents, we are calling for a multiannual programme of its own for consumer protection. since the commissioner does not seem to be entirely convinced, i will summarize the reasons for this. the community's powers in each of these two areas are too different. the same applies to the social objectives of the civil society organisations concerned; the internal division of powers, also in the member states, is often contrary to an integrated approach. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but our ambitions in the field of consumer policy are difficult to achieve. all the european institutions have been using the community's consumer policy for years to illustrate that europe really does care about the welfare of ordinary people. and in times of enlargement, when the need to give the internal market a consumer dimension is all the greater, when we must also be able to keep the european union's human face, in such times we cannot reduce ambitions in the field of consumer protection with impunity. and just because of the presence of the three institutions - i assume that the austrian presidency of the council is well represented here - just for that reason i thought it useful to plead today for the preservation of the budget as set out in the commission proposal. i think we should really stick with that. mr president, in consultation with professor trakatellis of the committee on the environment, we have divided the budget neatly according to the scale used by the commission. we are thus coming to an amount of eur 233 million over seven years for consumer protection. in agreement with our financial perspective negotiator, our colleague mr böge, we in the imco have added nothing to it, but let us not misunderstand: this does not mean that we will settle for less later. the three budgetary authorities are asked to take this message literally. we are not satisfied with less because of the importance of the subject, the field of action increased by enlargement and the necessary consumer confidence in the internal market. i would like to thank my colleagues from imco, mr president, for having taken this line and for having been able to limit ourselves to two major additional points of concern to the european commission's proposal, which was more than adequately constructed by the commissioner. the first. we want the programming to take greater account of the involvement of member states with a less long tradition in consumer protection, in the consumer movement, in the capacity building of consumer associations and in their participation in policy-making. the second. particular attention should be paid to the ageing population and other vulnerable consumer groups. people with experience in consumer law know that we cannot adequately include those vulnerable groups in legislation, which by definition has a general scope, but in a consumer programme we can target groups and we can take those vulnerable consumers in and we must do that if we want to move towards a warm human society. ladies and gentlemen, this is the first report by the committee on consumer protection in over 10 years in which our regrettable imco chairman, phillip whitehead, does not speak. we shall miss him and my years of friendly collegial cooperation with phillip lead me to dedicate this report to him. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support all of this, and i would also ask the commission and the council to support our proposal. i thank you for your cooperation, i thank you for your respect for phillip whitehead, because we owe him that, and i also thank the people at the imco secretariat, who have handled this matter very professionally. president. - the next item is the report (doc. it is unlikely that all colleagues will be able to speak before lunch; we will therefore have to agree on the vote, because this is a codecision report; if we do not have a vote on the budget, we shall have to wait until the next partsession in brussels. i think that we cannot leave it to chance and that we cannot vote on a subject which concerns so many people with a very small presence. that is my suggestion as rapporteur.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between the commission and the consumer. we have not yet been able to complete the debate on this report. even the shadow rapporteurs from most of the groups have yet to speak and out of respect for the members, mr president, i would ask you not to vote now, it is pointless to vote before the debate is over, to continue the debate this afternoon, but to vote at the sitting next week in brussels. it is a codecision report, we cannot risk voting on it with a very small turnout and we must ensure that as many people as possible can take part.
in writing. today, parliament gave its opinion on the strategy for future enlargements of the european union. the enlargements "reunited" with our european brothers, bulgarians, romanians, croats, macedonians and others, arbitrarily separated from us after yalta. they are destined to join us as much as the union is destined to integrate them. i am not contesting the substance, but the form and timing, and that is why i voted for paragraphs 5 and 6. it is time for the union to have a real debate on its own borders, something it has carefully avoided doing during the work of the convention. a black hole in the constitution that has fueled widespread skepticism and concern. avoiding what is unpleasant is not an attitude worthy of us and our voters, and asking for a debate does not make us refuzniks of enlargement! a europe without frontiers does not serve those who want a europe of power. our borders will be geographical, historical and moral, but they are necessary to preserve a model, a project, common values.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i believe that if we are to build a genuine european parliamentary democracy, genuine european political parties are an important part of that. the decision taken a few years ago to finance the parties as such, apart from the political groups, seems to me to be a very important step in that direction. this step is not necessarily popular with the population, because the population does not think it is necessary. i think, however, that we have a duty to point out that in a good parliamentary democracy political parties are an important link between the citizen and decision-making and that this also comes at a price. in other words, we must also dare to say out loud that democracy has a price, that this is not unusual and that funding should be made more transparent, with public funds rather than through all sorts of obscure channels. an important step in this direction was taken, as already mentioned, a few years ago. i think that now was the time to make some improvements, the most important of which was undoubtedly the structural one, which was to enable the political parties to plan for several years rather than always working with a budget for one year and being uncertain about what will happen the following year. there are also two important technical amendments, which relate to the flexibility with which the budget can be managed. i should like to take advantage of this opportunity to point out that the problem of transferring any reserves or bonuses which you have in a given year to the next is not confined to political parties. it seems to be a rule that has been dropped somewhere in the general rules imposed by the commission. as president of the governing board of the college of europe, i am faced with the same problem: again, you have to have spent the money in a certain year, otherwise you have a problem and that leads to poor management. there should be more flexibility on that point, as we are proposing here for the political party. i would draw the commissioner's attention to the fact that this problem is not confined to the political party. it seems to be a general rule applied by the commission which actually hinders good management and has been devised by accountants whom i do not understand. finally, i would also like to stress that we can still do important work with the committee on constitutional affairs on a genuine statute for political parties, which - even if it is to the detriment of my own country's treasury - should also include a fiscal statute that is more in line with the fiscal statute of the european institutions, so that it becomes very clear that political parties belong to that specific level of government, that they fit seamlessly into the institutional framework of europe.
the leinen report, mr president, is based on the belief that full-fledged european political parties are necessary because they are a real benefit to democracy at european level. i think it's fair to say that the opposite is true. the unrestrained expansion of the decision-making process in a europe which must be made up of very diverse and very sovereign member states is the surest way to less democracy and even less transparent decision-making through a bureaucracy which can hardly be controlled, and there are already many examples of this today, for example the totalitarian way in which the rejection of the european constitution in democratic referendums in france and the netherlands is dealt with in this parliament. the european political parties must once again be used to divert masses of taxpayers' money to yet another additional party funding, and then only for politically correct parties. so when europe talks about democracy, we better watch our counts.
i have abstained on the vote on the bushill-matthews report because i cannot agree with several of the recommendations. i am thinking in particular of recital 70 on immigration policy, although i must admit in parentheses that even that recital 70 on immigration policy contains a formulation which is strangely nuanced for this parliament. it must be said that this report is actually quite balanced and at least has the merit of putting the demographic problem of europe back on the agenda. what i miss in this report is the observation that very many parents today still choose voluntarily to work at home and for their own family and that probably many more people would choose this path if it were made financially feasible by the government. my party has long advocated full parental pay, including social security and the building up of pension rights for the home-working parent with minor children. i am convinced that this measure could also make a considerable contribution to the enormous demographic challenge we are facing.
in writing. i voted in favour of the bushill-matthews report on demographic challenges and solidarity between generations. the fact is that europe is ageing. in my country, the equation is simple: because we live in a system of legal pension distribution that requires each generation of workers to pay the pensions of the generations that worked before them, this means very concretely that fewer workers will have to finance the pensions and health care of a higher number of pensioners, who will live longer and longer. if nothing is done, either future generations will have to bear much heavier burdens at the expense of their own living standards, or if they refuse to do so, tomorrow's pensioners will find themselves gradually reduced to a subsistence standard of living and rationed health care. clearly, neither of these two possibilities is acceptable. none of them will be accepted. we must find other ways, and urgently: all the countries of the union are facing this challenge. it is the honour of a democracy to anticipate the response to the challenges it knows are inevitable. we owe it to future generations of europeans.
in writing. on the occasion of the adoption of this report, which i supported, i would like to address the recent developments in bioenergy in belgium. in fact, in addition to micro-economic projects relating to the use of biofuels on farms, large-scale industrial projects are finally being set up in my country, and i am delighted about this. as regards production, six major projects are currently underway, the two largest being located in ghent (biodiesel) and wanze (bioethanol). in addition, the biofuel tax exemption programme adopted by belgium and approved by the european commission sets the blending rate for biodiesel with traditional diesel at 3,37% for 2006 and 4,29% for 2007. for bioethanol the mixture was set at 7%. at this rate, will we even reach the target set in directive 2003/30 of 5.75% of all fuels sold being 'green' by 2010? in this respect, the parish report calls for these quantified targets to be made mandatory. the energy-saving use of agricultural products, a real opportunity for the future of our farmers, which respects the environment, merits the setting of binding objectives, especially if they are reasonable.
president. - as mr poettering has said, there was some confusion about the precise title and the wording. we propose, as mr poettering has said, to have both the role of the assyrian minority and the situation of the prisons in iraq addressed. the title should also be clear. so, if it's an amendment or a proposal for an amendment in the sense of "the situation in iraq: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission on the basis of the proposals contained in the report.
mr president, it is just 1500 days since ingrid betancourt and her collaborator, clara rojas, were kidnapped by the farc in colombia, joining the all-too-great procession of 3000 hostages, not to mention the thousands of missing in that country. i am speaking today on behalf of the international federation of committees, ingrid betancourt, who, in consultation with the family, has made three demands. firstly, to actively support the mediation efforts of the three countries, france, switzerland and spain. secondly, to put strong pressure on the farc, through the organizations which support them abroad and especially in the countries which have not put them on their list of terrorist organizations, so that they give a positive response to the proposal of the three-country group, thus showing their genuine desire to reach a humanitarian agreement. thirdly, and finally, to exert strong pressure on the colombian government to comply with the geneva convention, which colombia has ratified. the convention requires that in the event of internal conflict the government, as it has previously undertaken to do, conclude humanitarian agreements in order to save as many human lives as possible.
i would like to express my dissatisfaction with the final declaration of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly of 27 march. i understand the importance of dialogue between the upper and lower parts of the mediterranean, but i am not convinced that such dialogue makes much sense when it leads to a unilateral admission of guilt, in this case by europe. i do not think there is any other term for it when i read that closing statement. first, the danish cartoons are condemned with a brief sentence or a sub-sentence about the violence in those cartoons. although they are specific about the danish cartoons, they deliberately leave everything else very vague and very general. there is talk of promoting democracy, but no mention of the systematic marginalization of christians and other minorities in the muslim world. we don't have to go all the way to afghanistan to find examples of that. in turkey, for example, a change of religion must also be reported to the government. in that country recently an italian catholic priest was murdered because of what he represents. in that country, restoring christian buildings is made virtually impossible. i regret that this has not been discussed.
first of all, mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. there is still a lot of work to be done in the negotiations, but at least there is some talk, and that in itself is a merit. i would like to mention three points which i believe will remain essential in the weeks and months ahead. first, the need for the poorest countries to be involved. small delegations, the poorest countries that should have the most to gain from this round, find it difficult to stay informed in the negotiations. secondly, world trade must benefit these developing countries in particular. we are talking about the doha development round. i would therefore like to call on the european commission and the member states of the european union to translate this fine principle, which has already been mentioned in many speeches, into action during and after the negotiations. finally, there is the liberalization of trade in services. the way in which these negotiations are being conducted is changing, and i think that is a dangerous development. i think that abandoning the traditional bottom-up approach is not compatible with the idea of a development round and on this point the report could have been a little stronger.
in writing. i would like to say why i voted against the report in the final vote. this is because amendment no 22, which condemned the commission's insistence on liberalising services in the eu and elsewhere without accompanying it with adequate social and environmental legislation, was rejected. i fully agree that no country should be obliged to liberalise any sector of services and that sectors such as health, water supply, education and audiovisual services in particular should be excluded from liberalisation. this part of the amendment was narrowly rejected: 291 in favour, 299 against and 20 abstentions. for this reason i did not wish to vote in favour of the final vote.
member of the commission. mr president, when we debated this proposal at the february part-session i said that the commission would base its modified proposal on what parliament voted. i believe you will see that we have honoured that commitment in the text adopted by the college today. we have endeavoured to respect the consensus you have reached on some of the key articles. you will find the amendments you have voted to article 16 – freedom to provide services – and article 17 – derogations from freedom to supply services – reflected in the modified proposal. we have excluded all healthcare from the scope of the proposal and, in line with the commitment given, we will come forward with a separate initiative on the health sector. the modified proposal also provides for the exclusion of taxation, temporary work agencies, security services and the audiovisual sector from the scope of the proposal. one issue on scope where we did not follow you is the exclusion of legal services. the commission considers this is not required given that article 3 already provides that in case of conflict between a specific directive and this proposal it is the former that will prevail. in addition, we have brought the wording on the exercise of an official authority in line with article 45 of the ec treaty. we have based the exclusion of social services on the various amendments you adopted in this regard. i am sure you will agree that any exclusion must be clearly defined, and this is what we have attempted to do. if we want to avoid diverging interpretation in member states, then we must provide legal certainty. the text of the modified proposal specifies that the exclusion from the directive concerns those social services relating to social housing, children and support to families and persons in need which are provided by the state or by providers mandated by the state. in addition, the commission will come forward in the next few weeks with a communication on social services of general interest, reflecting the importance these services have for our citizens the decision to remove all interaction between the services proposal and labour law has in my opinion been one of the most important elements in creating a more positive atmosphere around this new services proposal. this has allowed us to move on from the allegations of lowering of social standards and threats to the european social model. while this perception was wrong, it did not go away, and poisoned the debate on this important proposal. in any event, the modified proposal is clear in this regard: labour law is completely removed. as part of the fallout from this, articles 24 and 25 have been removed from the modified proposal. however, as i said during the debate in february, the commission would come forward with a communication to address the issues surrounding the posting of workers, which articles 24 and 25 were designed to address. in a moment my colleague vladimir špidla will outline to you the approach the commission adopted today. i just want to add that this communication is a vital element in our efforts to reach agreement in the council on the services proposal. there are two other issues in the modified proposal that i want to highlight. we have clarified in article 3 that all special laws take precedence over the provisions of the services proposal. in particular, we have made it clear in article 3 that the directive does not affect private international law and that, as a consequence, consumers will in principle benefit from the protection granted to them by the consumer protection rule laid down in the consumer legislation in force in their member state. the commission has also accepted that the professional liability insurance in article 27 should be optional instead of compulsory. since the european parliament voted in february, there has been a growing realisation throughout the european union that the consensus you achieved was the basis for taking this debate forward. heads of government at the european council two weeks ago supported this. we have a window of opportunity for building on this growing consensus. i want to see the potential for growth and jobs that this proposal will bring realised as soon as possible. i will now present this modified proposal to the informal competitiveness council in graz later this month. i feel confident that, with the active support of the austrian presidency and member states, we stand a real chance of making significant progress during this presidency. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has just adopted a communication containing guidelines and clarifications for the member states on the posting of workers in the framework of the crossborder provision of services. the communication also contains proposals to help member states improve the practical functioning of administrative cooperation, access to information and supervision of compliance with the posting of workers directive. the commission already announced this communication last february, following the vote in the european parliament on the services directive, and announced at the time that it would follow the result of the majority vote on the repeal of articles 24 and 25, which contain provisions on administrative obstacles to the posting of workers. however, the omission of those articles should not be interpreted by member states as indicating that they may introduce or maintain excessive administrative barriers for undertakings that post workers abroad. cross-border posting of workers is governed by directive 96/71/ec, which aims to harmonise the right of a company to provide cross-border services on the one hand, and the rights of workers who are temporarily posted to another country to provide those services there, on the other. this directive is a key instrument to ensure the free movement of services and at the same time a key instrument to prevent social dumping. the legal clarification adopted by the commission today offers the necessary clarification on the control measures that member states may use to verify compliance with the working conditions laid down in the directive. the purpose is to ensure that states act in accordance with the principle of free movement of services, while avoiding social dumping. the communication offers clarifications and guidance on four types of control measures in particular: the requirement to obtain a permit, the obligation to have a representative on the territory of the host member state, the obligation to notify and the obligation to provide documents concerning social and working conditions. the conclusions of the communication are as follows: as regards the obligation to have a representative in the territory of the host member state, this obligation is considered to be somewhat excessive and is considered sufficient to entrust a worker e.g. a master with the task of liaising with the competent authorities of the member states. as regards the systematic prior notification obligation, it is not considered appropriate to apply this notification obligation solely because it is an outsourced service; as regards the documents to be retained, the obligation to retain documents is, of course, recognised, but it is assumed that these documents must be only those which are strictly necessary to enable the member state authorities to provide effective assistance and to carry out effective controls. this does not apply, for example, to documents relating to social security, since they are covered by another directive, namely directive 1408/71. it is further concluded that it is appropriate to require prior notification of the activity. the notification of the activity must take place at the latest on the day of the start of the activity itself. the commission also intends to make it easier for workers and businesses to access information on working conditions and to improve cooperation between national authorities. it is also necessary to improve the means available to workers and businesses to ensure effective enforcement of the rules on employees. on the basis of the commission's analysis of the implementation of the directive, which can be found in the commission's administration, we have concluded that there is still a lot of room for improvement in all areas and that the communication contains a number of proposals addressed to the member states in order to address these shortcomings; inter alia, improving the website and other information resources, strengthening the contact points and bodies responsible for monitoring the use of electronic systems for the exchange of information and improving contact between labour inspectorates. i consider it quite important that member states should indicate in their information the specific obligations to be met by the sending firm, rather than merely referring to the labour law generally applicable or to the legal system in force in the member state concerned. ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that the posting of workers directive, if properly applied, is a sufficient and solid instrument to prevent social dumping on the one hand and to open up the field of freedom to provide services on the other. (applause) thank you very much.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. the president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the epp group is not at all dissatisfied with the way things are going on the services directive. we set the right tone in november in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and we thus gave and received a firm and balanced text. we have therefore, at the commission's urging, found a majority in the house for very substantial amendments. at the european spring summit - we may say so - we actually received a big congratulatory from the council and we also heard the council express the wish that further work be done on a services directive which both opens up the markets and leaves room for social protection. today we heard the commission's detailed position on our proposals and we see that the commission has kept its promise and remains very close to the position of the european parliament. the services of general economic interest will remain in it, but, as we have proposed, with a system of their own. the scope is limited as we had requested, but we must, commissioner, look carefully at how we are going to define these social services. the directive has no impact whatsoever on employment law and commissioner špidla has just explained the promised guidelines on the application of the posting of workers directive. the consumer is happy and, in the end, adequately protected, the administrative burden is reduced, and the freedom to provide services, the key point in articles 16 and 17, is guaranteed. it is true that a different cooperation procedure for control has been developed, but we are counting on the council to ensure that it works as well as we had proposed. we know that a balanced package is possible, we want to continue working towards it and we hope that the austrian presidency of the council, with which we are always ready to dialogue, will lead us to a directive which is good for the selfemployed, for the professions, for service users, consumers, workers, in general for economic growth and for many additional jobs. we wish the presidency of the council every success and we are pleased with the positive cooperation which we have finally had with the commission. (applause from the left)
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioners, i think we should be pleased that the commission has bowed to the double pressure of the european parliament and the council. i believe that in the circumstances in which the european union is now found, this is a striking demonstration of the fact that parliamentary democracy within the european union can work and that the commission can actually follow the amendments voted by the european parliament. the european parliament has substantially improved the commission's original proposal. i would like to stress, however, that the substantive objections we raised remain, which justified our group's unanimous vote against. they concern mainly two points: the scope of the directive and the confirmed inclusion of services of general economic interest. our group is in favour of a specific directive on services of general economic interest because we fear that their inclusion in this directive will hamper any new commission proposal. the second objection concerns the compromise reached on article 16, which does not increase the legal certainty of the text and in fact refers us back to the case law of the court of justice and the need for the court to decide on a case by case basis, contrary to what the commission and parliament wanted. the ball is now in the council's court, which must define its common position. in this connection, the environmental group unanimously calls on the council to amend and improve this text, particularly on the two points i have just mentioned.
i would like to join my colleagues in thanking the european commission for being as close as possible to parliament's position. i must say, commissioner, that i am somewhat concerned about the limited definition of social services and i would like parliament and the council to look again at a better definition. i am very pleased that the commission has adopted parliament's social clauses on respect for labour and social security legislation and the cacs and also, commissioner, that the services directive gives priority to the posting of workers directive and fully respects it. as regards the secondment notice, commissioner špidla, i am not entirely satisfied with its content. i would therefore urge that this communication be sent to the social partners and parliament for consultation. it is good, ladies and gentlemen, that the bureaucratic red tape and obstacles imposed by the member states, which the court has repeatedly condemned, are being removed, but i have the impression that the prohibitions in the communication go far beyond the law. for example, the view that the appointment of a representative from among the posted workers should be sufficient is actually a disregard for the negotiating practice of the scandinavian countries. and with the prohibition of prior authorisation or registration, you risk undermining the system of authorisations, for example in the context of temporary agency work. so this needs to be looked at again. on the other hand, i would like to congratulate the commission on the fact that it has taken a good initiative to improve controls in practice. it is very important that firms and workers are better informed than hitherto about the conditions of employment in the context of secondment and that the liaison offices improve their operation. i also fully support, commissioner, the idea of better equipping the labour inspectorates and of transnational cooperation. this has been repeatedly requested by parliament. i believe that only then will we have sufficient guarantees to create an internal market for services which functions in full respect of the social rules. (applause from the left)
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the fact that you are helping me to make a very practical contribution to better legislation by giving me the privilege of meeting the conference of committee chairmen and having a very intensive discussion of legislation is very much linked to this debate. anyway, thank you for your understanding. i should like to comment briefly on one or two subjects which have been raised in this debate. the question of comitology was raised by many speakers. in austria, they say, "don't cackle over eggs that haven't been laid". but we have just taken up the subject of comitology with great commitment under the austrian presidency. we have already had two very intensive rounds of negotiations with the representatives of the european parliament, the last of which was only about two hours ago. i think we are on the right track, after a few years, to reach a solution that is satisfactory to parliament and to the council. in any case, the present situation will improve, because parliament will naturally be involved in the legislative acts adopted by the council and parliament in accordance with the codecision procedure. we are relatively close to a solution here, and i hope that we can reach a final solution within this half-year. we are also contributing to better legislation. mrs frassoni has of course rightly stressed the importance of enforcement. this concerns the member states, not the council as such - and i am speaking here, of course, on behalf of the council - but the individual member states are naturally seeking, in discussions with the commission, to find better ways of helping the application of the law to make a breakthrough. we are also - and i say this as an austrian - affected by this, of course, as are all the other member states, and we are also affected by infringement proceedings, as are many other member states. as a lawyer, i say that every right obviously needs an enforcement mechanism; that is important, and we are also trying to listen better to the commission and to find better methods of enforcing and applying the law. i do not think that the council should be asked to make a decision on this matter, but i do think that it should be made clear that the council is not prepared to accept the amendments which have been tabled. the council's main concern is, of course, the question of legislation and the review of acts already adopted.
madam president, i fully agree with those who believe that a slimmer regime would be good for the europe of regulation, a europe that is flimsy on principles and unfortunately more permissive on monitoring the transposition and proper application of our legislation. one observation: ten years after the launch of the slim programme, and despite the signing of the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking two years ago, we are still far from the mark. we have still not curbed this appetite for legislation in the union. so i am glad that the commission is today proposing this balanced regime: three conditions for this agenda to work, to strengthen the union and bring it closer to the europeans. it has been said that europe should legislate only when it can do better than other levels of government. from the canary islands to scandinavia - as mr stubb has just said - and brussels, we must once and for all resist european jargon and speak and write the law in the language that is most understandable to all those to whom it is intended. we could give many more examples. thirdly, the slimming regime that we want and that smes in particular want is not a "let it go" regime. better regulation, it must be stressed, and i conclude by saying this, madam president, is not lack of ambition. i agree with mrs frassoni that i am thinking of reach, for example, when i stress this last point.
member of the commission. the honourable member will be aware that part of the procedure that any applicant country must go through is that it must ensure that the directives of the community are put into effect. that will apply equally to bulgaria and romania. the member is probably also aware that these recommendations stem from the financial action task force – fatf, as it is known – and most countries around the world are bound to implement the recommendations of that particular body. in the eu we have taken it upon ourselves, in a directive, to implement the recommendations, which has been done in the third money laundering directive. you can rest assured that bulgaria will be taking those measures into account in its legislation, as it is part of its deal to acquire full membership of the european union.
member of the commission. the president has pointed out that i am taking this question on behalf of my colleague, mrs kroes. the commission has significant powers to ensure that member states fully respect the internal market rules and do not create unlawful obstacles to cross-border mergers. if a member state violates internal market rules, the commission can launch an infringement procedure pursuant to article 226 of the ec treaty. this procedure may require a certain time, as the commission has, at two separate stages, to grant the member state the opportunity to express its view before introducing an action before the court of justice, which then has to take the final decision on the alleged infringement. where justified by the circumstances of the case, the commission can act more speedily by giving very short deadlines to member states in the pre-litigation phase and asking the court to grant interim measures. even in that case, the commission is obliged to take into account the observations of the member states, including late responses, as it is settled case-law that the proper conduct of their pre-litigation procedure constitutes an essential guarantee required by the ec treaty, not only in order to protect the rights of the member state concerned but also to ensure that any contentious procedure would have a clearly defined dispute as its subject-matter. moreover, in cases where a member state intervenes with regard to concentrations with a community dimension, the commission has special powers to adopt a decision under article 21 of regulation (ec) no 139/2004, known as the merger regulation. pursuant to that provision, the commission has the exclusive competence to assess concentrations with a community dimension. member states can adopt measures which could prohibit or prejudice de jure or de facto such operations only if, first, the measures in question protect the interests other than those taken into account by the merger regulation and, second, those measures are necessary and proportionate for the protection of interests compatible with ec law. public security, plurality of media and prudential rules are considered to be interests compatible with ec law. measures adopted in pursuit of those interests must in any event be necessary and proportionate, and the commission may seek information from the national authorities about the intended measures in order to verify this. the other interests must be communicated to the commission before the adoption of those measures. the commission must then decide, within 25 working days, whether the national measures are justified for the protection of an interest compatible with ec law. the commission considers that the abovementioned provisions can allow it, in a timely manner, to act against any unlawful protectionist measures adopted by member states. the commission is, moreover, firmly committed to use all the powers at its disposal to ensure full compliance with ec law.
member of the commission. i can understand the intent of the supplementary question put by the honourable member. yes, it is sometimes frustrating to have to wait for a considerable period of time before there is action. however, we are a community of laws and we must abide by settled law on this. the procedures must be followed. even in member states these types of actions take some time. although sometimes there are mechanisms to expedite the process in member states, and even in the community you can exercise rights to expedite the process, it is still pretty time consuming. so, i am afraid that we cannot rule by fiat or by dictat in this community. it would be an abuse of privilege. i do not think anybody would advocate that. on the other hand, it is sometimes frustrating that there is such a considerable period of time, but i do not see any other way around it. furthermore, i do not foresee any member state rushing to give the commission more immediate new powers or powers to expedite the process. we have to live by what is there.
member of the commission. mr president, mr member of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the french law to which the honourable member's question relates has not yet been notified to the commission and the commission is therefore not prepared to comment in detail on that law. the objective of directive 2000/78, as the honourable member mentions, is indeed to prohibit discrimination in employment and occupation, in particular discrimination on grounds of age. however, the directive also provides for a number of exceptions to the general rule. let me quote directly from the directive. 'nevertheless, differences in treatment linked to age may be justified in certain circumstances and the appellant therefore invokes specific provisions which may vary according to the situation in the member states. it is therefore essential to distinguish between differences in treatment which are justified, in particular by legitimate employment policy, labour market and vocational training objectives and discrimination which must be prohibited.' encore une citation: "the setting up of special conditions of access to employment and vocational training, employment and work including conditions of dismissal and remuneration for young people, older workers and those with dependants, in order to promote their occupational integration or to ensure their protection". you can see that the situation is twofold from the point of view of the directive. the directive recognises different treatment where the reasons are legitimate and recognises different measures where the nature of those measures is proportionate to the objective pursued. i cannot comment in more detail on the current situation. the court of justice in luxembourg can, of course, only give a final opinion on any law which is notified.
member of the commission. mr president, you have cited one of the cases which is very important for assessing similar situations, because the directive does indeed presuppose that any measure is both legitimate and proportionate to its purpose. in the case you mentioned, concerning older workers, the court's ruling in luxembourg was based on the fact that the purpose was legitimate, the method of the measure was not proportionate, and therefore the measure was rejected. at the moment, as i said, because the law has not yet been notified, we do not know what it looks like, and even as i can follow the media reports, its shape is still not stabilized, it is impossible for me as a representative of the commission to express myself with greater precision.
member of the commission. the commission naturally monitors the labour markets of individual countries and the development of labour law. the green paper on the development of labour law in europe will shortly be published, which i hope will provide the basis for a very thorough discussion of the customs, methods and developments of labour law and industrial relations in the member states of the european union. otherwise, of course, the commission can only monitor and decide within the framework provided for by the treaty, and here it must be said that the treaty does not provide for direct links to labour law.
member of the commission. council regulation (ec) no 485/2005 to which the honourable member refers extends the possibility of withdrawal of fishing vessels from the community fishing fleet with public aid to vessels which can be transferred to the countries affected by the tsunami for the benefit of the fishing communities concerned. this possibility is granted on an exceptional basis, under certain conditions and only during a limited period. while several countries in the indian ocean whose fishing sectors were affected by the tsunami disaster enquired about the possibility of a transfer of vessels, only sri lanka submitted a formal request for vessels. it concerned 120 vessels with an overall length of 9 to 12 metres. the commission informed member states of the request and reminded them on several occasions of the obligation to report on the transfer of vessels. despite the unanimous adoption of the regulation by the council, all 20 member states which are engaged in maritime fisheries have now informed the commission that they have not identified any possibility of transfers of vessels in response to the sri lankan request. as the regulation sets a deadline of 30 june 2006, there are at present no more prospects of transfers of vessels under the scheme.
- a writer. president. - i have to say that the regulation we adopted was in fact useless. we predicted that, too. i think that the regulation as it was proposed was really just a public relations act and from the answer that the commissioner gives it is clear that this was a bad law. i would like to ask a supplementary question, commissioner. if this regulation has not helped the countries affected by the tsunami to rebuild their fishing fleets, could the commissioner tell us whether the commission has taken other measures to help those countries actually build their own boats and to organize a more appropriate way of fishing in the countries affected by the tsunami last year?
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president and mr vice-president, i would not like to provoke mr schulz to speak again by pointing out that my group would certainly agree with mr watson's last remarks on the italian situation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we must have the instruments and the means! in this connection, i would like to turn to mr schüssel and to the council - since the council's conclusions are being discussed - to suggest three proposals. first, a proposal concerning the budget of the european union, which we have just discussed. i think it is necessary to simply say again that this budget is insufficient and inconsistent with the lisbon objectives. the proposals currently on the table are €110 billion below what parliament proposed and €200 billion below what the commission proposed. i would therefore like to make my first suggestion, namely that we should speed up the work on the european union's own resources, as you yourself have indicated. the second suggestion concerns the role of the european investment bank. i think what has been decided is interesting, mr schüssel. thirty billion euros is fine, but the real cost would be ten times as much according to economists' estimates. and from this point of view, i think that the council should not be self-conscious and agree to open a debate on european state bonds. the need to mobilise people's savings in europe to finance sustainable transport networks and to finance eco-efficiency. and this could be done, first of all, in the context of the eurozone: the council conclusions refer to this. i think that would be an important point. finally, here is my third suggestion. i think that the council really needs to make progress in the debate on the evolution of tax systems in european countries. you know very well that in the next 20 years we will be faced with the problem of financing social security systems in almost all european countries. if we continue to fail to take decisive action to make mobile bases taxable, including at european level - which brings us back to the question of own resources - the present situation will continue, with the increase in inequalities in income distribution and the growth of a poor population that social safety nets will no longer be able to support. these are three suggestions, mr schüssel, and i would like the council, under your presidency and subsequent presidencies, to look at these kinds of proposals.
president, commission president barroso calls ageing and globalisation our two greatest challenges. it is important that we put the first aspect at the very top of the political agenda. the ageing of europe's population is not just a challenge, it is a life-threatening problem. it is not only for the maintenance of our social security systems and thus of the economy, but also for the very survival of the peoples of europe. moreover, solutions are sometimes proposed that actually make the problems worse. just think of the plea for new, mass immigration. the commission published a green paper to explore this path. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the problems are already too big to see. if the eu wants to further alienate the population, it must take that path. a real solution is to encourage young families to have more children and to create a favorable climate for this. if that does not happen, the lisbon objectives will be nothing but talk.
the content of the programme of the takkula report, mr president, reminds me of the arrogant, belligerent attitude of official europe after the referendums in france and the netherlands. the stupid french and the stupid dutch had not understood and had to be re-educated. the perfect representative of this arrogant elite is commissioner michel, who literally said that the citizen is not always right and that in such a case the politicians must pave the way. the present programme, 'citizens for europe', also fits into this dubious communication and information strategy. by pouring hundreds of millions of euros into all sorts of meaningless, politically correct projects and organisations, the commission claims to be bringing citizens closer to the union. it is not a little ironic that the text also refers to plan d, so-called for democracy, dialogue and debate, but in the same month that the plan was proposed, negotiations on turkey's accession were started, knowing full well that the majority of the population in europe is against it. this is the kind of hypocrisy that more and more europeans are resisting.
in writing. i of course support this report which aims to bring citizens closer to the european institutions, an objective, indeed a necessity in today's europe where scepticism is growing. the report sets out communication strategies, citizen projects of a transnational nature and, above all, a duty of 'active european memory', a federal initiative to commemorate the victims of the deportations and mass exterminations committed by the nazi and communist regimes. i voted against all attempts to water down the text, some of whom wanted to refer to other forms of totalitarianism in europe. the atrocities committed by these two regimes, which affected all the peoples of europe, are at the origin of the european construction, and it is essential not to trivialize them. beyond this initiative, our role is to inform, meet, dialogue, convince, make sure that every citizen knows how europe shapes their daily lives, strengthen the feeling of belonging to europe, fight against any form of nationalist retreat, make the added value of europe come to life and remind that this is the most beautiful idea of the 20th century. we must remember that while some of us are beginning to doubt, the rest of the world is dreaming of europe!
in writing. yes, of course, and in principle, to the opening of the labour markets in the territory of the fifteen to workers from eight new member states. in 2004, the uk, ireland and sweden opened their borders without restriction. two years later, a commission report defends this policy, supported by figures: lower than expected migration flows and filling the shortage of workers in certain sectors. but yes, because we cannot afford to be complacent about the transitional arrangements made in this area by a majority of member states. that is why i support the belgian federal government's position that certain conditions for access to the labour market should be maintained until 2009 at the latest. limited restrictions in space which do not apply to the selfemployed such as tradesmen, craftsmen and the liberal professions who have enjoyed full freedom of establishment since the enlargement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organization. the 'unprepared' member states must be given time to put in place the necessary registration and control structures for the free movement of workers from wherever they come.
in writing. i support the öry report on the transitional arrangements restricting the free movement of workers in the labour markets of the european union, because i share the view that it is better for all member states, including belgium, to abolish the transitional measures. the three countries that have opened their borders have not experienced a mass migration flow. it has also been shown that transitional periods lead to a significant increase in undeclared work and pseudo-independence, which puts pressure on wages and exposes workers to poor working conditions and unfair conditions. restricting the free movement of workers from the new member states is discriminatory, exploitative and short-sighted, ignoring the realities of today. this report can ensure that the abolition of transitional periods will also remove the blockage of social rights and pave the way for a social and just europe. the crucial thing is to have a european labour market with equal pay for equal work and equal working conditions, guaranteeing equal access to social rights for all workers. at the same time, the social inspection services and transnational cooperation must be strengthened.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the excitement that preceded the palestinian and israeli elections is calming down and is becoming clearer. we are facing new parties, new actors, new challenges, but perhaps also a glimmer of hope. both the palestinian and the israeli sides want an end to the conflict and feel the urgency of fighting poverty. this is not a bad equation, and if the european union is to play a role in this, it must tackle three problems. first, it must provide financial support for palestine, not only for basic needs, but also for administrations that are on the verge of collapse. in gaza, where 35% of the salaried workforce is employed by the palestinian authority and 75% of the palestinians live below the poverty line, famine is beginning to hit, employees are no longer paid and according to authoritative sources, avian influenza could combine with human influenza and trigger the dreaded pandemic. but this support for administrations cannot be translated into support for a parallel presidential administration which would almost be a counter-power. secondly, the european union must engage in dialogue with hamas, under certain conditions, but it must engage in dialogue. carter already said it half-heartedly in january. clinton just said so. for all those who remember the many terrorist movements that have become respectable political parties, but also for all those who want peace and who respect the electoral choice of almost half the palestinian people, we must open dialogue, we must open negotiations. hamas is maintaining its truce and its foreign minister has, to the general surprise, i must admit, opened the door by not ruling out a two-state solution. let's take this chance. to go back and admit the state of israel on the basis of the 1967 borders is in itself a negotiation, since it implies that israel itself recognizes the 1967 line. thirdly, the european union must get the israeli government to accept that the unilateral withdrawal plan is only a plan b and not a plan a. it is true that it is more difficult to negotiate peace than to achieve reasonable security unilaterally and by force. but if the unilateral convergence plan becomes israel's secret agenda, it will not only be the end of the road map or any bilateral initiative, but it will also be the end of any hope for peace and europe will lose any credible influence in that part of the world. there are three problems to solve, but i can see that you have already grasped the clues. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, the palestinian and israeli electorates have indeed dealt us a complicated hand. each electorate seems to have favoured a party that is determined to act unilaterally and declares that it will not recognise or negotiate with the other. i am fully aware that there is a very important distinction between denial of a state’s right to exist and refusal to recognise the legitimacy of a party that, until now, has not officially renounced the use of violence. so, the situation looks pretty bleak. but could it be that each electorate has given priority to internal concerns, to matters that influence their everyday lives? could it be that the palestinians want an end to corruption, internal strife and administrative incompetence? could it be that the israelis want better economic prospects, social protection and a more equitable system? could it be that each electorate voted in favour of what it saw as its own best interests, rather than against the other people? if that is the case then there could be some hope. if hamas recognises israel, continues to observe the ceasefire and does not resume violence; and if israel engages in easing the many restrictions, guarantees real rights of defence to the hundreds of palestinians held in administrative detention, and refrains from holding people indefinitely in such detention, both the new palestinian and the future israeli governments might find themselves somehow able to work together, if only to keep life going. i know it is a far cry from calls to revive the peace process, but maybe in the short term we can only hope for small steps in the right direction. we send our best wishes to both sides. (applause)
president. - after the resounding success of the hamas terrorist movement in the palestinian parliamentary elections, there was a chance that the israeli electorate would react in an extreme way. obviously, nothing like that happened. the new kadima party emerged victorious from the bus. the voters in israel have overwhelmingly voted in favour of the peace process. the question, of course, is: what's the matter? whatever the composition of the new israeli government, the problem remains hamas. mr solana says that the new palestinian authority cannot be expected to fail. that is partly true, of course, because the palestinian elections were fair and democratic. on the other hand, the new palestinian authority must recognize israel's right to exist, respect all existing agreements and, of course, renounce violence. that is the official position of the european union and i can only hope that it will not be departed from. the european union is partly responsible for the electoral victory of hamas. we have been too lax in providing support to the palestinian authority. we have continued this almost indefinitely, even though we were perfectly aware of the problem of endemic corruption, even though we knew the problem of hate speech in some palestinian schoolbooks, even though we have never been able to remove the doubt completely that no european taxpayer money has been used to finance terrorist acts. this new situation is also an opportunity for the european union to regain its credibility.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, for his report. i think that the subject of road safety deserves a separate debate and we shall certainly want to deal with it in detail on another occasion. i would just like to talk about the problem of security financing. since the september 11 attacks, transport safety has rightly become a major concern, including at european level. the port sector has been addressed, airport safety has undergone a real metamorphosis thanks to european legislation, and other measures are being prepared and that is good. but if we want to have a good security policy, we must not only draw up common security guidelines which must of course be applied in the same way everywhere, but we must also be clear about who is going to pay for all of this. we need common european rules and therefore a level playing field. it cannot be that in one member state the cost is borne entirely by the passengers and in another member state the public authorities bear a large part of it. the need for a regulation is all the more urgent because the cost of new safety measures continues to rise dramatically. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 30 june 2010 and that the agreement was signed on 1 july 2010. and in the meantime, we're working on new legislation. however, as has already been said, an interinstitutional declaration was made in 2002 on this subject, with the agreement that the financing problem would be solved quickly. the commission promised to come forward with a strategy to tackle this problem by the end of 2005. we haven't seen that announcement yet. a while ago, there was a rumor that we should expect this by the end of april. this turns out not to be true. i would like to ask the commissioner when we can expect this communication. because in these circumstances it is difficult for us, as co-legislators, to do our job properly. we are indeed discussing the amendment of regulation 2320, but we have no idea where we are going with regard to an important element in the dossier. i am sure that it is difficult, commissioner, but you must come forward with some ideas as soon as possible so that we can have a thorough debate.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the loss of revenue for aviation operators due to the loss of consumer confidence can reach 50 to 60%. in view of this situation, the commission proposes to amend the regulations as regards the application of exceptional market support measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. but seeking to increase the volume of exports to meet the current shortfall in domestic consumption is contrary to the principle of food sovereignty of the peoples. is it also reasonable to advocate, as some member states do, the destruction of healthy poultry stocks in order to regulate supply? this destruction would benefit the large industrialists relocated to brazil. they are waiting for that to happen to replenish the european market. a safeguard clause should be activated against imports of industrial poultry from outside europe, especially as it appears that the intensification of the avian influenza virus goes hand in hand with the degree of industrialisation of the sector. in asia, laos seems to be spared. but there is no industrial exploitation in this country, unlike what happens in neighbouring countries like vietnam or thailand. i would like to stress that the necessary precautionary measures which we are rightly taking in our countries are more effective against small-scale farms which are concerned with producing quality poultry than against industrial farms which, however, benefit from the additional support. i would like to mention the compulsory containment measures for small-scale free-range poultry farmers. finally, in the light of various past crises which have seriously affected the agricultural world, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy in 1997 and dioxin in 1999, while recognising that these problems are completely different from those of avian influenza, would it not be appropriate to set up a special committee, this time in advance, to identify the causes of crises in order to prevent them rather than try to cure them?
president, ladies and gentlemen, the cotonou agreement of 2000 had the well-intentioned objective of rescuing the acp countries from the rubble with the support of the eu. today, while progress has been made, there are still some major pain points. i'll just name a few. the acp countries still include six dictatorships, namely zimbabwe, equatorial guinea, sudan, swaziland, cuba and eritrea. it is a fact that the dictators there are putting a brake on economic developments in their countries. the joint parliamentary assembly and in particular the political affairs committee must give priority to the work of genuine democracy in these countries. there are also a number of acp countries where religious practices still prevail over the rule of law. the humanitarian tragedy in darfur is one of the direct consequences of this. in some countries women's rights are not respected and female mutilation is still a daily practice, despite the initiatives already taken. the cotonou agreement was the first to recognize that corruption is an obstacle to development. this common practice is not being eradicated and is a serious obstacle to the needs of the least well-off in these countries. ladies and gentlemen, i'll close with a quote from the indian nobel prize winner in economics, sen: "there has never been a famine in a democratic country". so, in addition to the aid for trade principle, the aid for democracy concept must also be considered.
president, ladies and gentlemen, the acp countries are almost all at the bottom of the latest edition of the corruption perception index, a widely used measure by transparency international. that should not surprise us. what is worrying, however, is the evolution of this index in many acp countries. there's been little improvement in the last five years. this meritorious report makes it clear that eradicating corruption can significantly increase africa's gross domestic product. corruption thus makes the difference between life and death for many africans, since it primarily affects the very poor. it is therefore vital to continue the fight against corruption with adequate means rather than assume, as some illustrious figures do, that the fight against corruption is of secondary importance. it is equally important to be cautious in dealing with direct budget support. this amounts to the eu issuing blank cheques to uncontrolled foreign institutions. let us first of all help ngos with projects that can produce tangible results and for which commitments to results and quality requirements can be made.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that since the european union began accession negotiations with turkey, we have been hearing weekly reports of violence and gross violations of human rights. you have made a list of them yourself, but i would like to draw your attention to the brutal murder of the elderly parents of the president of the kurdish institute in brussels, without, of course, neglecting the other victims. in a first response, commissioner rehn said he had full confidence in the turkish authorities. i think that is a rather strange attitude, since there is increasing evidence of active involvement by the same authorities. i do not know whether you have seen the report of the human rights organization ihd on the murder of the ferho couple and also the judicial investigation into the bombing in şemdinli. they both point in the direction of the turkish army. when a prosecutor a few weeks ago wanted to investigate the direct involvement of the number two and also the candidate chief of staff of the army, it was immediately blocked by the army leadership. these are the authorities in which the european commission has every confidence. now, commissioner, these events painfully show that turkey is not seeking a peaceful solution to the conflict with the kurds. turkey simply refuses to recognize the cultural and democratic rights of the turkish kurds to self-determination. a country which denies all political and cultural rights to 15 million of its citizens is not a democracy to me. a country whose authorities are actively involved in gross violations of human and peoples' rights is not a state of law in my view either. the fact that we are ignoring this reality and that we are not sending a strong signal from europe also makes us complicit. i would like to know what the commission is going to do about this. will commissioner rehn finally include the protection of minorities in the association agreement, as he has promised, or not? i think that the establishment of a direct and structured dialogue by the european union - since turkey does not or does not want to do so - with representatives of the kurdish community in turkey could be a very important step in this regard. i'd like to hear your views on this.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i assume i cannot speak for ever, so i will begin at once. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am now losing count of the debates we have had on romania and bulgaria over the last 12 months. i believe that this large number is mainly intended to make it clear to the citizens of the eu that this european parliament shares their scepticism and anxiety about enlargement. the debate was triggered by a so-called oral question from the committee on foreign affairs to the european commission, which contained a number of questions and suggestions, whether direct or indirect. the text of that oral question has found its way into the romanian and bulgarian media and into european voice. this text has caused great concern in romania and bulgaria and that is why we took the liberty of reacting quite clearly before this debate, but mr brok has now left because he is not interested in my reaction. i would like to reply to that oral question in two parts, firstly on the substance and secondly on the procedure. as regards the procedure, i can only regret once again that neither i nor the group have been consulted on the text. we could have made it clear that the mention of - and i quote literally - 'a close monitoring system' does not in any way mean that we approve of it. this is because far too many colleagues think that this is a possible curatorial coup between romania and bulgaria and therefore too much of a discrimination between member states, and we do not want to know about this. i would also like to point out that neither mr brok, nor mr moscovici, nor mr van orden have used the words 'a close monitoring system', which are only on paper. i would like to reiterate what i said earlier on behalf of our group in the closed session of the committee on foreign affairs: the liberal group, the liberal and democratic group, in its overwhelming majority, believes that romania and bulgaria should be able to join on 1 january 2007 and only if the facts show that there are serious shortcomings would we agree to the announcement of special safeguard measures, which in our view cannot be decided before the autumn. finally, i would ask my colleagues to consider the following: it is not a good thing to be skeptical about enlargement in the run-up to a debate because we want to meet the concerns of our citizens and then say that we are in favour of accession on 1 january 2007. we believe that this has done too much damage to the design of enlargement. we therefore hope that all this will end in a positive way, that commissioner rehn will propose to his colleagues the date of 1 january 2007, and we will welcome that in the debate in june. thank you very much for your attention.
mr president, i have only one question today and i will get straight to the point. i'm not going to ask you what you're going to do now, but why you did it now. what is the rationale, i am not talking about justification but about the rationale of a decision which has had as its immediate consequence the resumption of violence, with the tragic attack in tel aviv and its ten victims which breaks the hamas truce; with the outbreak of a humanitarian crisis in gaza and the west bank, with no alternative plan ready to work; the european union is also concerned about the shift in palestine towards iran, at a time when the failure of the nuclear negotiations with iran is giving the worst sign of the situation. with, finally, the political weakening of mahmoud abbas, who, if we support him too openly, risks appearing as a puppet of the west? in short, if elections were held tomorrow, i fear that hamas would not get 44% of the votes, but perhaps 70%. this is very serious. some of us, myself included, had made a bet that hamas would engage in a path of political resistance if given time. it's a crazy bet, but the history of terrorist movements shows that this madness is reasonable. so why a sudden decision with incalculable political consequences? we are on the brink of civil war in palestine, administrations are collapsing and the image of european politics is sticking to american politics like a piece of chewing gum. let no one tell us that our patience has run out, that we have warned hamas, that we are continuing to provide humanitarian aid. the enormity of this decision warrants more plausible explanations. no one in this house is unaware that a terrorist movement does not lay down its arms without negotiations and, above all, if the object of its resistance remains. in palestine, the occupation is everywhere. mrs morgantini said it, nearly fifty dead since january 2006, the wall is still being built, the jordan river is being annexed and east jerusalem is suffocating. so what game are we playing? what are the palestinians being punished with? at least we should dare to stop talking about money and go back to the road map and plan an international conference on palestine and peace. that was the second phase of the road map: we are waiting for it. (applause from the left)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i would first of all like to express my appreciation for the work done by the various rapporteurs, in particular mr jan mulder, on the general budget, and mr guidoni, on the agencies. these are the two reports in which the matters within the competence of our committee are dealt with directly. first of all, as regards the general budget of the european union, i appreciate that mr mulder has taken up in his report two of the main points made in my opinion and which were adopted by our committee. the first of these concerns the rate of budget implementation in the area of freedom, security and justice, with particular reference to payments. although this is an improvement on 2003, when it was only 68%, the implementation rate for payments in 2004 remains far too low, at 83%, and is, moreover, well below the average rate of implementation of the budget. this results in a considerable increase in the balance to be settled, from eur 160 million to eur 238 million. it is clear that the jls directorate-general needs to step up its efforts to improve budget implementation. this will be all the more necessary in the context of the new financial perspective for 2007-13 if, as i hope, it is approved by parliament in the near future. over the next seven years, budgetary appropriations for the 'freedom, security and justice' sector will increase considerably, by 163%, the highest increase of any category or sub-category of the general budget of the union. the management of the jls directorate-general must be strengthened to meet the political priority which is thus recognized in the creation of a genuine area of freedom, security and justice. the second comment made by the rapporteur-general concerns the concerns expressed by the court of auditors regarding the implementation of the european refugee fund by certain member states and, in particular, the weaknesses in the national control systems put in place. it is clear that in this sector, as in many others of shared management, the commission suffers more from the weakness of the member states than from its own shortcomings or inadequacies. our rapporteur-general was right to make this a central point in his report and the delegation of our parliament was right, during the trilogue on the renewal of the institutional agreement, to insist that the council and the member states should give more precise commitments on the control of funds under shared management. unfortunately, we know that the results have not lived up to our expectations. finally, a few thoughts on the agencies, which are particularly numerous in the area of freedom, security and justice. if we exclude europol, there are no less than four other agencies operating in the area of freedom, security and justice, and i am not taking account of the european police college, cepol. these four agencies are the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the border and eurojust. our rapporteur for the discharge on the implementation of the agencies' budgets, mr umberto guidoni, is aware that the agencies - as he said earlier - do not always have a good reputation with certain colleagues or with the public. it is written in his report when he notes that, and i quote, 'community agencies do not always have a good image or a good press'. but he immediately adds, and i agree with him, that many of them do not deserve this negative image and that this should be made known to the citizens of the european union by justifying, as often as necessary and by appropriate means, the reasons for the existence of these agencies and their results. as rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties, i want to make it very clear that in my view, and with the exception of a number of critical and well-founded remarks about the vienna agency, the agencies in our sector are well run, they do a good job and i do not see any other structures that could be put in place that would be better at carrying out the specific tasks entrusted to the agencies in place. i am thinking in particular of frontex, the agency for the control of external borders, and eurojust, for the improvement of judicial cooperation. i take this opportunity to announce but in this, i anticipate another debate that i will make proposals to strengthen the agencies concerned in the 2007 budget.
i would like to make three points. first of all, i would like to draw attention to the amendments i have tabled to the mulder and guidoni reports concerning the office for reconstruction in the former yugoslavia. we visited kosovo with an ad hoc delegation in february. we have seen that the office for reconstruction is doing a great job, a brilliant job, and we must not throw away this expertise. hence the need, at a crucial time, when kosovo will probably become independent this year, not to speed up the decommissioning of this office, but to gradually decommission it and also to use this expertise in other conflict regions in the world, iraq, afghanistan and other regions. the second point is the discharge of parliament. i would like to acknowledge the excellent work of my colleague, mr markus ferber. he delivered a splendid report. his draft report was even stronger than the report which was finally voted by cocobu, but we must note that there are new revelations. and that's what we need to investigate. that means that we will have to vote against his report, that we will have to vote against the discharge. i want to be very clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this does not detract from the work of mr ferber; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the third theme concerns the committee of the regions. i regret, ladies and gentlemen, that we did not hold the hearing with two auditors that mr lundgren had requested before the vote in committee. those were two people who wanted to come and explain to us possible irregularities, possible fraud. now there is a confidential document in the chamber of this parliament, a very substantial document, which gives some indication that something may be going on. we must also examine this seriously. i would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote against the discharge of the committee of the regions, in line with the european parliament.
president, ladies and gentlemen, i also wish to stress on behalf of the green group in the european parliament that if we do not grant discharge to parliament as mr ferber has asked, this will be a clear political signal that we want to win six months, that we want to have six months' delay to look at the file in depth, to look at the file of the two buildings in strasbourg to the bone and to see what has happened there. this will not be a debate on the seat, because that is not the issue. the point here is that we need to know whether our money is being well spent or whether it is being misused. that's the stake of the delay.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, if all goes well, parliament will give its green light to these two new regulations in the food sector. one is to clean up the jungle of foods and drinks fortified with vitamins, for example. the other aims to allow or prohibit, under certain conditions, the nutrition or health claims which increasingly accompany these same products. these are two proposals that really speak to citizens and give them concrete answers about the trust they place in these claims, to guide their purchasing choices. the beuc points out that 60% of consumers believe that a product rich in calcium can only be good for the dietary balance, which is not necessarily true. the only way to be sure of this is to know the full identity card of a food or drink, its sugar, salt, fat content. that's why we need the nutritional profile, a real nutritional profile, not a discounted one. this is what we are presented with in compromise 66, the so-called disclosure clause, which actually offers both a red light and a green light on the same package; i think that is the height of contradiction, the greatest confusion for the consumer, and i do not agree with that - it is exceptional - the analysis of our rapporteur. i shall abstain on this point, however, in order not to block this text, which is urgent. i have said on many occasions that i am opposed to any weakening of article 4 and to the authorization of certain messages extolling the virtues of alcohol. so no to amendments nos 18 and 489 as well. i would of course like to thank our two rapporteurs, mrs poli bortone and mrs karine scheel, the commission and the council, who have grasped the full importance of these citizen-oriented legislation, while taking account, as has been pointed out, of the concerns often expressed by smes, of the need also to work here in the general interest and to resist certain particular interests. i think that mrs sommer, in part of her speech, set the tone in what i found to be harsh and unjustified criticisms of the work of the commission and of our commissioner. so let me conclude that we have nothing to gain from the fact that european law is being written at the international confectionery show in cologne.
in writing. today, after a long battle, we were able to reach an agreement between parliament and the council to regulate the aforementioned claims on food products, against all expectations, from the second reading stage. i'm glad to hear it. the text we are voting for has at least two objectives: to prevent certain unfair advertising and allegations and to prevent obesity. the adoption of this text is a concrete step: it shows the european citizens, who seem to be doubting more and more the usefulness of the undertaking we are undertaking in building europe, that europe is making progress every day, that it produces concrete rules which improve their daily lives - in this case their ability to make informed choices about what they eat - in short, that it is useful! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labelling of products is not distorted, and i am glad that the labelling of products with a low fat content and a high sugar content will now be required to be displayed on the same side and in the same way.
in writing. i had the opportunity to express my views last night during the debate on the poli bortone report. i would like to clarify my vote on amendment no 66, the so-called disclosure clause. i am opposed to any challenge to article 4 and the nutritional profile. i therefore regard this compromise as the worst kind of hypocrisy: to allow foods high in sugar, salt or fat to be labelled as nutritious, provided that the high content of these substances is also displayed. in other words, make cheating legal! for example, "fat-free" lollipops are alive, even though they are also "pure sugar"! and so much for the cavities of children. if i abstain, despite this, it's for the rest. because, first of all, we have come a long, long way since our first reading vote that simply killed the nutritional profile. because, too, many uncertainties have been raised, particularly for smes. because the ban on health claims for alcoholic products remains in place. because i am convinced that we would not get any better at the end of a long and costly conciliation. politics is also about compromise.
in writing. this report, which is before us for our second reading vote, contains some progress in terms of health, but some of the amendments are a real step backwards. this is clearly the case with amendments nos 17, 66 and 90, which not only seek to legalise products high in fat, sugar or salt, but also allow misleading claims to be made to consumers. i very much regret the adoption of the amendments which take away a large part of the relevance of the text and regret that they have been the subject of a compromise which i do not hesitate to call dubious.
in writing. as a newly elected member of the european parliament, i made my first ever call to the european commission on a draft european law on health and nutrition claims that was being prepared. this was 14 years ago. the need for community legislation was recognized at that time. so an agreement on a concrete legal text after so many years is not too soon. the result is worth seeing. it strikes a balance between the interests and rights of consumers to health protection and information on the one hand and the need not to impose undue burdens on industry on the other. both the solution on the nutritional profiles and the notification procedure indicate that we have reached a mature approach. i therefore vote in favour of this result.
member of the commission. mr president, it is not a question of my timetable, but of media deadlines in bulgaria and romania. i trust you will be sympathetic to this excuse, because we have to get the right message across tonight to both bulgaria and romania, where we are heading with president barroso immediately after this sitting to pass on the message of encouragement. we shall be rolling up our sleeves to tackle the remaining shortcomings. i would like to thank you for a very constructive and responsible debate, which also reflects the wide range of views in european civil society. that is, of course, the role of parliament. in this debate i sense overall support for the commission’s basic approach, which is that the target accession date of january 2007 should be possible, on condition that the countries can address the remaining shortcomings. yes, some are more in favour than others and opinions differ as to the conditions, but the overall tone of the debate has been very clear and i can say that the commission is in favour of the target and of sticking strictly to the conditions. in order to have a real dialogue, i would like to comment on the points raised in various speeches. first of all, it has been said that the conditions that remain must be achievable. i fully agree with that. we would not propose a final review of whether the conditions have been met in october if we did not believe that it is feasible for the countries to meet the remaining criteria. at the same time, it is clear that, as guardian of the treaties, we cannot recommend something that does not exist. we have to see that the conditions are really fulfilled, especially in the field of terrorism and the fight against corruption and organised crime. otherwise, we would not be up to our task.secondly, there has been a request for a concrete ‘to-do’ list or scoreboard for the countries so that they know what is expected of them. i agree. this is included in the commission’s report and both countries are fully aware of the expectations and of the remaining criteria. that is precisely why president barroso and i are going to bucharest and sofia today and tomorrow. we shall discuss what is expected of both bulgaria and romania. moreover, we have to trust in the political maturity of the governments, parliaments and administrations of these countries for them to know what the copenhagen political and economic criteria and the acquis criteria mean, and plan their roadmaps of reform on the basis of these well-established criteria, which form the basis of our crystal clear report. i can give you a very precise example of one area in which we and bulgaria and romania have an interest in the countries fulfilling the conditions by the accession date, and that is that community money should be properly spent and accounted for, which, i trust, is close to the heart of this house – at least it was when i was a member of the committee on budgetary control. bulgaria needs to establish the integrated administration and control system in agriculture in order to implement the provisions and funding of the common agricultural policy. this means that it needs to take aerial photographs of all the parcels of land, digitise them and block them into a system that links them to the owners. if this is not done, i am afraid we will have to withhold direct payments under the common agricultural policy. this should work as a very strong incentive to redress this shortcoming. i hope this example is concrete enough, but i could give you dozens of other precise examples of what still needs to be done in various areas of the union’s policy and acquis. finally, mr van orden said that no reference was made in the commission’s report to the recommendation of a possible postponement, which is one of the provisions of the accession treaty. to avoid any confusion or misunderstanding, this compels me say that in fact, in the conclusion of the commission’s report adopted just three hours ago, we say that by early october we shall assess whether the two countries have been able to address the remaining shortcomings and on that basis we shall adopt a position as to whether the proposed accession date can be adhered to. this means, in clear english or other community languages, that the commission reserves the right to consider the use of this safeguard clause of postponement unless the shortcomings are addressed in the next five months, which is, as i said, fully achievable for both countries if they really make an effort. our goal is the accession of bulgaria and romania in 2007 and our duty is to see that both countries join when they meet the conditions and are fully prepared to join the european union. this is also a matter of the famous absorption capacity of the european union. that is the best way to make the enlargement a success for bulgaria, romania and europe. i trust that you will support the commission in this objective.
it is not surprising, mr president, that neither bulgaria nor romania have fully completed their homework, because it is a heavy task. the two countries must not, however, be the victims of internal problems within the union or of a lack of solidarity. i also hear the commissioner use the word absorption capacity. i really do not know what criteria they would use to judge it. i think that the agreements that have been made should be respected. we have been to sofia with our parliamentary committee. we have seen for ourselves how they are striving to achieve the goal and i think we should support the reformers. the commissioner says that concrete examples will be given of what exactly is still required of these countries. we really hope that this will be the case, that concrete measures will be taken and that the political leaders of these countries will be given the necessary advice and support so that 1 january 2007 can be achieved. the commission must not continue to hide behind the council. she must come to us with clear advice.
member of the commission. i can confirm what i already said. we are working all the time with those countries so that they improve or strengthen the services offered, including financial services. it is part of our negotiation strategy. it is not that we are only taking a defensive position on agriculture; we are active in all areas that concern the trade negotiations. we firmly believe that trade concessions should be reciprocal.
member of the commission. biofuels are needed for two main reasons. firstly, our energy security depends on developing alternatives to oil. among the solutions that can be put into practice today, there is none with the same potential as biofuels. secondly, the transport sector is not contributing enough to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. biofuels can significantly contribute to this aim. the eu has decided to achieve rapid development of biofuels use. the biofuels directive, adopted in 2003, set a reference value of a 2% market share for biofuels in 2005 and 5.75% in 2010, compared with a 0.2% share in 2000. in adopting national indicative targets under the directive, member states have been somewhat less ambitious, but, overall, the target is a share of about 1.4% in 2005. in the light of this, the review of the functioning of the biofuels directive, which the commission is due to carry out this year, is particularly important. we have just launched the public consultation exercise for this review. the public consultation poses a number of questions. first of all, will the 5.75% objective for 2010 be achieved through the present policies and measures? if not, what can be done to ensure that the objective will be achieved? should the community set objectives for the share of biofuels in 2015 and 2020? the commission has taken no position on these questions so far. turning to the question of environmental impact, it is important to start from the basis that biofuels bring a number of environmental benefits. however, it is also true that their production can have some adverse effects on the environment. i believe that second-generation biofuels can have even greater environmental benefits and their introduction should be accelerated as much as possible. the commission will make sure, therefore, that the promotion of biofuels continues to bring benefits in environmental terms, as well as the benefit of security of supply. for that reason, as part of the review of the directive, the commission is asking for views on the introduction of a certification system. this could ensure that only biofuels whose cultivation meets required environmental standards count towards objectives in the directive. the initial reaction of environmental ngos, fuel suppliers and other stakeholders has been encouragingly positive. as regards car manufacturers' obligations, carmakers have voluntarily agreed to limit average co2 emissions from new cars to 140g per km by 2008/2009. the commission does not consider that the use of biofuels should in any way reduce the objectives agreed upon with the car industry.
thank you, commissioner, for your answer. i am very pleased that the commission is working to make our mobility more sustainable. that is absolutely necessary. i'll take note of your commitments, but i'd like to ask you the following. it is not just the production of biofuels here in the european union, it is also the production and possibly the purchase of biofuels from outside the european union. and yet, we are getting reports that this production is taking place under less than favorable conditions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of deforestation in the amazon, social exploitation and the excessive use of pesticides. what will the commission do about it? and then you answered my question about the automobile industry. but there is one question you haven't answered: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs. that is the point of the debate. less fuel ... (the president cut the speaker off)
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, over the past decade the european parliament has played a decisive role in the political response to mad cow disease. this disease broke out in the united kingdom in the 1980s, but took on a new dimension when the british minister for health told the british parliament in westminster that there was probably a link between mad cow disease and a new variant of creutzfeldt-jakob disease. the political response from parliament was swift: the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the community, which is to be submitted to the council. a conditional motion of censure was introduced and one of the main results was that food safety was removed from the remit of dg agriculture and became one of the policy areas covered by the codecision procedure. however, since the adoption of the bse legislation in 2001 and 2002 and the detailed rules on animal by-products, a number of controversial measures have also been adopted under the comitology procedure. the bse legislation has been updated by comitology decisions on no less than 19 occasions since june 2001. the european parliament must therefore be vigilant. just two examples. the commission's proposal to re-feed fish meal to ruminants was only withdrawn after strong protests in this parliament. second example: the provisions on feeding described in annex 4 to the act were changed by comitology decisions without the involvement of the european parliament from detailed descriptions of half a page to no less than 9 pages of detailed provisions and derogations. the comitology procedure therefore remains a huge problem. we have not been able to resolve this in this round of negotiations with the council. we are pleased, and it is certainly positive, that scientific risk analysis of the effects on humans and animals should also be taken into account in future. the agreement reached with the council at first reading, which is reflected in amendments nos 41 to 56, has the full support of our group. our main points remain: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not distorted by the introduction of new species of fish, such as the ban on feeding all animal proteins to ruminants, the provision that fishmeal can only be fed to young animals of ruminant species after a scientific assessment and sufficiently strong control measures, and the rules on separator meat, which must now be finally agreed. i am particularly sorry that we cannot have this debate in the presence of the rapporteur, mr dagmar roth-behrendt. i wish her much strength, much health and hope that she can return to her role in this parliament very soon.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i should like, after thanking mr böge and our negotiators, to sum up the specific reasons which have led our committee to endorse, without feeling, the draft interinstitutional agreement which has been presented to us. the libe committee made four specific requests at the outset of the negotiation process. firstly, we have asked for the freedom, security and justice sector to be the subject of a specific and autonomous sub-heading in the new financial framework in order to underline its political importance. we have obtained this subheading: it is subheading 3a. secondly, we have proposed a substantial increase in appropriations to anticipate the threat of terrorism and the development of organised crime, and to meet the requirements of better external border control and better management of migration flows. we have obtained this increase in appropriations. over the next seven years, the appropriations allocated to the creation of the area of freedom, security and justice could increase by 167%. this is by far the highest potential growth in the new financial framework. thirdly, we asked for permission to finance the new agencies outside the financial framework, in order to preserve the resources allocated to the operational programmes. if i understand the provision in part iii, point d correctly, in future it will be necessary to obtain the agreement of both arms of the budgetary authority to finance any new agency before it is set up. this financing will not therefore be automatically covered by the financial perspective. we can be satisfied with that, even if we had hoped for better. finally, we have proposed that a sort of trilogue be established with parliament and the council in the libe sector before the council's first reading on the budget, in order to harmonize the positions of the two institutions on political priorities and the allocation of resources. it is true that this provision is not mentioned as such in the text of the interinstitutional agreement, but it is a unilateral declaration by the european parliament: it is declaration 13. we have not got everything we asked for, but it is true that this is a little better and, in the light of the times, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a little better - to use the words of raymond devos - is not nothing, it is already something.
the european parliament, thanks to the negotiating skills of reimer böge and the other negotiators, has succeeded in giving the original council proposals real european added value and in significantly improving the institutional framework, but the financial perspective for 2007-2013 remains insufficient in the light of the challenge facing the european union. the european parliament, however, had put forward a reasonable and reasoned proposal in the böge report, which was more realistic than the commission's proposal. the council's narrow-mindedness and short-sightedness on the basis of national considerations, however, have outstripped the european ambition of parliament and the commission. we shall nevertheless approve this interinstitutional agreement. it is the only compromise possible under the present circumstances. the lack of financial prospects for the coming years would plunge the union into an even deeper crisis than it is already in. it would also be wrong to do so in the case of the new member states, which need a long-term perspective to continue their cohesion policy and integrate fully into the single market. this does not mean that the current level of resources is insufficient to meet the new european challenges. the revision clause and the flexibility scheme were therefore absolutely necessary. the risk is that sooner or later we will be stuck. parliament must also be fully involved in these. the most important conclusion, however, is that the current system of own resources has reached its limits. there is a need for a fundamental reform. we must get rid of the system of subsidies from national budgets. we must return to genuine own resources, as was the case with customs duties at the start of european integration. this is the only way to put the european general interest ahead of the narrow and short-sighted national interest. the european parliament must play a role - a driving role - and make proposals. the studies and notes of mr lamassoure can provide a good starting point. (applause from the left)
the european parliament, mr president, has managed to save an extra 4 billion euros in the showdown with the council. we are talking about a total of €864 billion over the period 2007 to 2013. the council also de facto gave parliament more powers by allowing it to evaluate the structure of the budget in 2008-09. we are still in the so-called reflection period on the future of the european union. a reflection period can and should also provide an opportunity to question a number of issues. we are now, for example, moving towards a european tax in the form of a tax on energy and transport. in the name of the common interest of the european taxpayers we must oppose this new tax, a new tax which, however it is turned, will add to the fiscal pressure which is already too high in most member states.
in writing. i abstained because i cannot accept that the research budget in the next three years will not be increased in real terms, whereas the lisbon process, the statements of the heads of state, rightly consider this to be a key priority for europe.
in writing. i was not very enthusiastic about approving the financial perspective and the interinstitutional agreement. it is a very low ambition budget, but without this agreement we cannot offer the new member states any prospects at all. in addition, many of the programmes are in danger of being shut down. a new crisis by rejecting the financial perspective would cause enormous damage to the european union.
in writing. like any compromise, this one has some weaknesses. but it is a step forward and it is worth supporting. accession negotiations, new initiatives, including in research, required more resources and it would have been a bad sign for europe, for the new member states and for the legitimate expectations of solidarity between the regions of europe if the countries had not agreed to this compromise. however, it is also clear that such negotiations need to be more open and transparent. it is not acceptable that certain countries should demand solidarity in one area - agriculture, for example - and refuse it in other areas - the structural funds, for example. this europe of 'egoism' must be brought to an end, slowly, in the interests of all.
in writing. final step on the financial perspective (period 2007-2013) with the adoption of an overall envelope of €866.4 billion. one figure: europe costs each european 26 cents a day. after the blockades by some member states (see the "club of the six") who wanted a discounted deal, the compromise reached can be welcomed, although it is far below the initial proposal of the parliament of june 2005, namely 975 billion euros. parliament has nevertheless managed to extract an additional 4 billion from the council's decision, 4 billion allocated mainly to education policies (40 000 additional erasmus grants!) research, competitiveness and innovation. on the other hand, other areas are being sacrificed, such as 'life +', a major environmental programme which will only be financed at 16% of the amount originally planned. in conclusion, a compromise agreement, a budget for survival, which ensures a certain continuity, but which is far from giving europe the means to achieve its ambitions.
in writing. i did not approve the interinstitutional agreement. the ep asked for €112 billion more than the council for the period 2007-13. the leaders of the major political groups shouted at blair's debriefing in december 2005 that he was a murderer and said that they would not accept this result under any circumstances. five months later, we find that the pressure from the capitals and especially from berlin has been very effective: all the expensive promises were swallowed. the ep is satisfied with an increase of just under €4 billion. this agreement will fail to adequately address the major challenges facing the eu. the second pillar of the agricultural policy, which is to finance rural development and focus on quality, animal welfare and environmental protection, is being curtailed. but also the trans-european networks, programmes such as erasmus (only 140,000 students will now be sent instead of 170,000 in 2006!!!) and leonardo (36,000 beneficiaries instead of 50,000!!!), the seventh r & d programme, the social agenda, the structural funds, life+ and natura, cultural activities, foreign policy and our actions towards our neighbours are all under-funded. the expectations of the people of europe will not be met. and that is a great pity.
in writing. between the parliament's vote in june 2005 (€974 billion) and the agreement under the uk presidency in december 2005 (€862 billion), there was a €112 billion difference. after many meetings, the trialogue agreement has made it possible to raise an additional 2 billion; which is far from satisfactory. but at a time when euroscepticism is gaining ground in the old and new member states, particularly because of the uncertainties linked to enlargement and the institutional situation, i think it is useful to reassure by adopting the financial perspectives for seven years. solidarity mechanisms are maintained if they do not grow in importance as i would have wished. for these reasons i am voting for the financial perspective, but of course without enthusiasm.
in writing. i voted in favour of the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that parliament has done its job well, better than ever and above all better than the other two institutions. the fact that we have serious prospects despite the european commission's lack of commitment and the greed of governments is due to our preparation and our negotiators. in the present circumstances, this agreement is better than absolute uncertainty about the financial policy space. there 's one thing that 's been bothering me for a while . the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the introduction of a new system of agricultural prices, the introduction of a new system of agricultural prices, the introduction of a new system of agricultural prices, the introduction of a new system of agricultural prices, the introduction of a new system of agricultural prices, the introduction of a new system of agricultural prices. but since we have no guarantee that we can pursue a more positive agricultural policy - without the constitution - and without financial prospects, this was not a sufficient reason to reject the whole thing.
in writing. in june 2005, parliament estimated that the union needed a budget of €974 billion to meet the challenges of tomorrow. the agreement on the financial perspective reached on 4 april at the end of the trilogue between parliament, the commission and the council is €112 billion below our position in june 2005. we have seen a 35% reduction in budgetary resources for competitiveness and growth (heading 1a), a 10% reduction for the structural and cohesion funds (heading 1b), etc. with such a tight budget, it is hard to imagine that the union can meet the objectives of lisbon and gothenburg. it is a minimalist agreement which does not give the union sufficient room for manoeuvre to pursue new policies for the future. the only merit of these financial perspectives is that they exist! we cannot postpone our vote for fear of not being able to start the new programme on time. in particular, member states and regions must be able to prepare and submit their projects in time for them to be co-financed as from 2007. it would be tragic for europe's poorest regions if they were not able to receive structural aid as early as 2007. i shall abstain for the following reasons.
in writing. the programme is very valuable in terms of 'greener' mobility. however, if we want to relieve the road, this must be done with great efficiency of the other modes of transport (water rail). however, multimodal transport is as strong as each link in the chain. however, rail remains the weak partner and a recent survey of multimodal platforms clearly shows where the weak points are. it would therefore be advisable for the commission and parliament to deal directly with this issue beyond the present programmes, otherwise the best support programmes will be based on the inefficiency of rail transport, among others, and transport companies will not see any benefits in using the railways.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. it is a call for greater coordination and coherence in eu and member states' human rights policies. we all know that the rapporteur dreams of a single common human rights report reflecting the views of the council, the commission and parliament. this dream can and will become a reality if the council takes parliament's opinion seriously in the short term and subordinates economic and commercial considerations to the principle of the universality and indivisibility of human rights in the long term. i agree with the rapporteur that the european initiative for democracy and human rights is a very important instrument in the european union's human rights strategy. i also share the view of commissioner ferrero-waldner that more resources should be allocated to election observation missions, which are crucial in strengthening democracy and human rights, especially in post-conflict situations. i also expect a lot from the inclusion of human rights clauses in all eu agreements. it is one thing to set up good instruments, but it is quite another to apply them consistently and courageously. it is therefore incomprehensible that the commission continues to hesitate to apply article 96 of the cotonou agreement in certain cases of flagrant violation of human rights in acp countries, as in ethiopia for example. a policy of double standards threatens to undermine the credibility of eu human rights policy and must be avoided at all costs. the merit of the howitt report is that it goes beyond the casuistry and finally offers the prospect of a more systematic and integrated approach. in that sense, i support it with great enthusiasm.
mr. president, the most important news for me tonight is that barça won. i'm very happy for you. mr president, as a member of the alde group and as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for the 2007 budget, i would first of all like to note that, among the limited number of political priorities which have been selected by our general rapporteur, mr elles, for the 2007 budget, the security dimension of the european union, both internal and external, is in a good place. no one can deny that the prevention and fight against terrorism, the improvement of external border controls and the dismantling of clandestine immigration channels are real and serious problems which require appropriate policies and adequate resources. nor can anyone deny that these are areas in which integrated action at european level brings an undeniable added value compared with the efforts of member states acting in isolation. and finally, no one can deny that these are problems which concern the citizens of the union very strongly and very legitimately, as all the surveys and all the barometers show, and which the european citizens consider not only normal but also necessary to be dealt with at european level. i believe, mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that to reconcile europe and its citizens, we must probably have much less fumeous discussions and much less propaganda pamphlets, but much more policies and measures which respond effectively to the problems which people are really experiencing and which they feel are important and priorities. homeland security is one of these domains. the 2007 budget will give us the opportunity to begin to stop disappointing them.
mr president, in september 2003, following the unprecedented forest fires that had struck portugal and a whole series of regions in southern europe, we took the floor to urge the european union to set up a permanent rapid reaction force. we were then, and still are, calling in the four excellent reports before us for, i would say, a little less national selfishness in civil protection, but also, as mrs estrella proposes in paragraphs 3 and 4 of her report, for an intensification of european cooperation in civil protection. mr janusz wojciechowski has spoken at length on this point. intensification of european cooperation for at least two good reasons. firstly, the impact of climate change on the frequency of natural disasters, the torrential rains in northern and eastern europe, the drought, the fires last year are here to remind us of the urgent need to act and to act quickly in this matter. secondly, the financial cost of these disasters is increasing and our member states are finding it increasingly difficult to bear it alone. the purpose of the solidarity fund is to cover these emergency costs, such as the supply of water, energy, housing and repairs to basic infrastructure. i should like to take this opportunity to thank mr berend, who wants to facilitate immediate access to part of the payments and who also proposes to extend the benefit of the fund to other types of disasters, such as drought or - he has spoken of this - threats or terrorist attacks of a biological or chemical nature. the european union will of course never be able to prevent all natural disasters, but it is our duty to assist the europeans who are struck by these tragedies and to coordinate our efforts better in these circumstances. that is why, despite the reluctance of some member states, we must also support the creation of a permanent european civil protection force, the famous 'green helmets'. we also support the less controversial creation of a major crisis management operational centre. you see, commissioner piebalgs, and i say this in response to a fear expressed by mrs haug, which i share, that we are not asking for more europe, but for a better europe.
mr president, would you please have it recorded that i missed a number of votes in the main yesterday because of the malfunctioning of the bell on my floor?
mr president, i had the same problem yesterday as mrs de vits and i wanted to emphasize that. the bell does not ring properly on our floor and when i arrived in the chamber to take part in the vote, ten minutes late, the bulk of the roll-call votes had been taken.
mr president, i believe that mr schulz has invoked rule 34 of the rules of procedure. i think i have as much right under the same article, since all members of this house have the same rights, to say that i consider it a disgrace that there is actually an abuse here, with your permission - if you do not intervene - to actually hold a debate that is not on the agenda and to insult and slander the largest party in belgium, the largest party in flanders and to link it to a murder party. i won't accept it. i think that you as president should intervene when there is a clear abuse of the rules of procedure.
the presence and speech of the belgian prime minister, mr verhofstadt, in this debate, mr president, can be considered a good illustration of what is fundamentally wrong with this european union. the fundamental problem with europe and verhofstadt is that the so-called statesmen no longer have even the most elementary democratic reflex, are no longer prepared to listen to the people and to the voters, and are convinced that they know better from their ivory towers. we saw another example of that just a few minutes ago. now prime minister verhofstadt is calling on his european colleagues to ignore the devastating referendums in france and the netherlands and just continue to pretend that nothing is going on. in his own country, verhofstadt did not even dare to take part in the promised referendum, although he is very keen to be seen as the champion of participation in referendums. but mr verhofstadt's participation should only be organised if he is sure of being proved right, not if he is in danger of losing. the most obvious example of the european democratic deficit is the case of turkey, and it is the case of turkey that threatens to paralyse the whole european system. europe is not stuck because of the expressed and justified distrust of voters in the netherlands and france, but because of the reason for that distrust. europe is stuck because high-ranking european statesmen refuse to define the territory of the european union, refuse to limit the potential accession of new candidate countries to countries that are culturally, geographically, historically also part of europe, which is obviously not the case for turkey. verhofstadt herself is one of the most outspoken defenders of turkish accession and refuses to allow any referendum or any democratic participation in this area. a month ago, the other ivory tower wise guy, european commission president barroso, said that he saw no reason to debate european borders, because such a debate would lead nowhere. well, the opposite is true. only when the citizens of europe are reassured that europe will have borders, only when they know that their europe will be limited to countries with a common base essential to them, only when european citizens feel that their statesmen are once again willing to listen to their voice and are willing to respect the outcome of democratic consultation, only then and not before can the european recovery begin. once again, it was good and symbolic in that sense that it was the belgian prime minister verhofstadt, the man who in his own country represents only 15% of the votes, who came here to represent the europe of the high-level, know-it-all and never-listening eurocrats, because that performance was tailor-made for him.
i would like to welcome this debate, mr president, which i hope will be the first in a series, because i believe that parliament can indeed contribute to reviving the momentum in debates with heads of government. it is good that prime minister verhofstadt was here to introduce this because he is indeed one of those who has made an active contribution during the period of reflection. i can agree with his approach to double-tracking to a large extent. we must move forward with ratification, but at the same time we must not sit back and take initiatives. i am less in agreement with him when he says that we can continue to expand unchecked in the meantime. i am not against enlargement, but further enlargement without deepening the european union seems to me to lead to what we do not want, a free trade area. what i do think is that we must make an even greater effort to make it clear to our citizens that what they fear at the moment, namely change, globalisation, globalisation, is not a retreat in itself into some form of economic patriotism or nationalism, but that only a european response is a real response to globalisation; the european union must also adapt to the new realities of globalisation and the information society, and we can only do this together with europe. because only together with europe are we able to be a true global actor defending our interests, our values, also in the global world of tomorrow. at the moment our citizens are not aware of this. they still think that by closing ourselves together, we can save ourselves. we must teach them that globalisation is irreversible. that will happen without europe if we do not stand strong. we can play a very strong role in globalisation if europe is strong.
mr president, mr prime minister, i should like to thank mr verhofstadt for his excellent and decisive speech and to return to two points. the first aspect is the time factor. mr verhofstadt stressed the problem of the lisbon process. we don't have time to waste. five years for the community patent is stupid. secondly, i would like to say that the heads of state have a very big responsibility for the financial perspectives with, for example, the research programme having less money, in real terms, in 2007, 2008 and 2009 than in 2006. there is a fundamental contradiction between the discourse and the reality. i believe that the method, too - open coordination - has proved to be insufficient. however, community policy instruments are not supported by the budget. so you can't make policy based on facts. the second aspect i would like to discuss with you very briefly is the social aspect. we talked about rejecting the constitution. it is true that the social aspect, and you rightly alluded to it, was present fifty years ago: there was hope of social improvement after the war. today, people do not feel that way. the first is that the european monetary system is a very important instrument for the development of the european economy.
mr president, mr prime minister, i think it is appropriate to applaud your willingness. i have time to comment on just one point: your two-way strategy. firstly, and i believe mrs frassoni has already said this, yes to continuing the ratification process. however, the two paths must cross, intertwine. i mean that the institutional arrangements must be consistent with the political priorities you have. so you will not get very far with the eurogroup dynamic if decisions are not taken by qualified majority in tax matters, at least on some points. nor will you get very far in foreign and defence policy unless you have a budget with independent funding. i would like to make it clear that i have no problem with the european army if it is used for conflict prevention. so, mr prime minister, we must be prepared to renegotiate the constitutional treaty on two or three specific points. i would draw your attention to the fact that the current provisions of the treaty on the flexibility clause and enhanced cooperation are insufficient and that, therefore, from this point of view, especially if we want to continue enlargement, we must allow those countries which want to go ahead to do so. you say that in your book, you didn't say it enough, in my opinion, in your speech, but i'm sure you mean it and so i encourage you to do so.
i would like to express my full support for the positive contribution made by prime minister verhofstadt. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the union. i think it is a commendable initiative. the reality is hard. the organization of fair competition between firms has been replaced by ruthless competition between member states. the commission is out of control and is hardly coming here with any new legislation. in her recent statement last week, she paid little attention to the socioeconomic aspects, and yet people are asking for jobs and social security. the council will most likely extend the period of reflection. i would like to say to the commission and the council that the period of reflection is taking too long. you can only think until your head is broken and i wonder if everyone thinks as hard as he says. i haven't seen much of a result yet. i want to make a call to reflect on the words of romano prodi. would it not be easier to get out of the institutional crisis if we first tackled the fundamental problem, namely the rules of the game in this house? should we not ask our voters to give us all a say in the european elections? the united states of europe is a long-term vision, but today the socioeconomic concerns of the people demand immediate answers.
president, prime minister, i would like to thank you, mr president, for organising this debate and i would like to congratulate prime minister verhofstadt on the vision he has unfolded for us. some of us are used to his very voluntarist views, but at a time like this - of growing euroscepticism and pessimism - such a positive view is more than welcome. so i want to thank you for that. i am also grateful that this debate has been able to take place, because i believe that both in your intervention, mr president, and in the interventions of a number of colleagues, including the group leaders, the finger has been put on the main pain points we are facing. i would like to mention first of all the schizophrenia of heads of government, heads of state and ministers meeting together on a monthly basis on average, and heads of state and government meeting together four times a year, and making decisions together. without their consent, nothing can really happen in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you said it yourself, prime minister, if it was right, they did it themselves and all by themselves. and if it has not been good, then it is obviously the fault of brussels. that's what i call schizophrenia. there is also masochism, and colleagues have also spoken about this. how many heads of government, heads of state, or colleagues here in parliament, ministers, are not very eloquent in pointing out all the shortcomings of the european union, but never what it does well. finally, mr prime minister, i think you have shown the way forward. where you said that we should look for and/or solutions rather than either/or solutions. i believe this is the way to get out of the crisis. thank you for your attention.
prime minister, thank you for your voluntary approach. i share your view that the reflection period will simply lead to nothing. we need extra cases. the referendum continues, okay, although the risk that we won't make it to the end of the ride is real. to make europe more visible through concrete projects? - i know. the european parliament has taken the lead in this by making europe more social, rejecting the port directive and updating the bolkestein directive. i am surprised that the belgian government abstained in the council the day before yesterday when it voted on the bolkestein directive. europe through concrete projects? yes, mr prime minister. but we need money for that. and we have reached an agreement on the financial perspective which is absolutely tight, which is absolutely understated and which is essentially an abdication. i say to you, mr president, that this is where the european parliament, the commission and the council have all gone wrong. we have behaved like grocers and in time we will pay the price for that.
the resolution rightly points to the need for a stable institutional framework for transatlantic relations. but i think this debate should not be conducted in terms of structures alone. it is important first of all that there is a willingness on both sides of the ocean to work together, to tackle together the problems we face. as regards the fight against terrorism, we in the european parliament have already paid a great deal of attention to guantanamo bay and the alleged illegal activities of the cia in europe. and it's right that there's been that attention. the fight against terrorism must of course be conducted within a strict legal framework. but it can also be said that some groups here in this house are not so much interested in the rights of terrorists or alleged terrorists as they are primarily interested in being primarily anti-american. if those same groups were as active in denouncing human rights abuses in cuba, for example, we would be a long way from that. it is not just people accused of terrorism, but people imprisoned for their political opinions.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, this report on women in conflict and reconstruction is based on three key documents. first, un resolution 1325, the report by maj britt theorin on the same issue in 2000 in our chamber and finally the disturbing report by elisabeth rehn and ellen johnson sirleaf, now president of liberia, also on this subject. since these reports, what's been going on? well, today, in 2006, there is still a lot to be done, and my report wanted to shed light on three aspects. the first is that of women as victims of war. i would like to say that the situation in this area, which has already been discussed at length, is unsustainable. today women are still raped, but they are raped because rape is a weapon of war. even today, vaginas are still being gutted with bayonets. even today, my dear colleagues, we take children alive from their mother's womb. today, in the camps of displaced persons, the sexual exploitation of women and children is not allowed but is common, including by peacekeeping forces, including members of the diplomatic corps. this is untenable! the second aspect i wanted to mention is that of women as peacemakers. because all over the world, in these chaotic situations, there are brave women who are calling for justice, who are reaching out to the belligerents and saying, we women want peace. and these associative structures, we must protect them, we must push them and we must allow these women of peace, once at the negotiating table, to have an equal share and to have a decisive role in the construction of their democracies. we owe them that much. the third aspect is even more delicate, because women are not only carriers of peace, they are also - alas - carriers of war, and the american soldier in abu ghraib prison is a terrible example of this. so women can be cruel, and i wanted to look at an area that is extremely sensitive, and that is the female suicide bomber. women suicide bombers are not a new phenomenon, but it is a phenomenon that is currently growing. in chechnya, 50% of women are suicide bombers, in palestine we have seen a wave of female suicide bombers. what is the cause? we have to analyse it in parliament, we have to do a study, we have to do a conference, but we already know that there are three factors involved. first, it is true, a distorted reading of islam, this great religion. because it's in fundamentalist countries that this happens. the second aspect is that of resistance in situations of war which violate international law every day, a resistance which we must understand without admitting it and condemning the innocent victims it kills. the third factor is linked to societies where women are culturally marginalized, where sometimes they are excluded from their villages because they have been raped. that's where we're going to look for female suicide bombers, among women who have already been victims of society. i therefore ask the commission and parliament to look into this problem. what can be done today in relation to all this? but there's still a lot to do! everything has been said, all the measures have been defined, but what we have to do is to apply them. implementing better reproductive health services is true, but that is not the main theme of this report. in all our financial instruments, in all our programmes - the stability instrument, the neighbourhood policy - and in our action plans, we must apply measures which take account of the gender issue and the dignity of women. we must also ensure that our police forces are trained, because we now have them, to respect women's rights, to be sensitive to them and to include women in their ranks. in this huge construction project, there is both hope - these are the women of peace - and concern. we have a lot of work to do and i thank all my colleagues on the committee on women's rights who have been able to go beyond the ideological debate and say 'we agree with this report'. i will respect everything that has been voted in the committee on women's rights and i would also like to thank the chairman of the committee on women's rights, mrs záborská, who is not here today but who sent me a note this morning. it must be said: we women will overcome partisan politics in this area. thank you in advance for your support. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i do not know which article to invoke. this is, in fact, a translation problem concerning french. there are several votes where the votes against are confused with abstentions, there is an inversion between abstentions and negative votes. i just wanted to make this point without waiting for the votes to be over.
the rapporteur. mr president, the green group has informed me that it will withdraw its amendments, with the exception of amendment no 10. i therefore ask my group and all my colleagues to support this amendment concerning kosovar women.
in writing. with the adoption of this recommendation on medicinal products for paediatric use and the agreement between parliament and the council, children will now be able to benefit from medicines adapted to their specific metabolism rather than being prescribed low doses of medicines intended for adults. it seems to me that we have tried here to meet all the conditions necessary for the intelligent development of specific pharmaceutical forms for children in europe: provisions to support innovation and research, incentives for laboratories (including the additional six months of protection of the certificate of protection), the creation of an inventory of specific needs in paediatrics, the obligation to develop a paediatric form for new medicinal products, measures to ensure that these products, once developed, are distributed throughout the member states, or exceptional derogations provided for so that the development of paediatric products does not, however, impede the provision of medicinal products for adults. this is a concrete example of the added value of community regulation: an isolated member state would never have had the means to promote such a policy on its own in respect of these specific medicines.
president. - mr koen dillen will refer to a german study in the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung which points to a lack of will to adapt among many immigrants. many other polls indicate the same trend. for example, an austrian study found that as many as 45% of muslims are very hostile to the idea of integration. so, would it not be better for europe to send a different signal and make 2008 the year of respect for european standards and values? i have no illusions about the past european capitulation to intimidation in the danish cartoons. i am thinking in particular of the poll conducted in britain by the sunday times, which shows that 40% of british muslims support the introduction of sharia.
mr president, my colleagues and i voted against this report by mrs hennicot-schoepges because, with the so-called european year of intercultural dialogue, an initiative which will cost no less than 10 million euros, official europe is once again demonstrating how blind it is to the real reality of citizens. this reality is that europe is home to a growing group of muslims who not only refuse to conform to the common european values but also want to impose their own worldview and way of life. for example, german public opinion no longer believes in dialogue with a religion which refuses to accept basic values such as equality between men and women. the germans are tired of the honor killings, the mass violence in schools and the burkas on the streets. for example, a recent poll by the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung revealed that over 71 percent of germans think that islam is intolerant. 91% of germans equate islam with violence against women. official europe would do well to take these signals more seriously.
in writing. i strongly support the initiative of the kingdom of belgium, which is essential for effective cooperation between member states in the protection of children against sexual abuse. the least that can be said is that this initiative fills a gap, a void, what can i say! the current abyss. let us realize - and belgium saw the gravity of this when the appalling fourniret case was discovered - that at present, when a person is convicted in a member state of paedophilia and is prohibited in that state from engaging in activities which might put him in contact with children, all he has to do is to escape that prohibition by moving to another member state! at present, therefore, there is no guarantee that a revocation pronounced in one member state will have legal effect in the other member states. in the face of this odious situation, it was time to put in place a system which obliges the state of residence of the person convicted of sexual offences against children to recognise the prohibitions issued abroad and to apply them on its own territory. i am convinced that this text will save children from the horror of the holocaust.
in writing. i would like to explain why i voted against the report by my colleague, mrs erika mann, on the eu/us transatlantic economic relations. in a general context, the report covers too many totally different sectors, sectors which, in my view, should be the subject of specific reports. so i think the content of the report should have been better targeted. the report could also have dramatic consequences for europe. it opens the door to a free trade area between the united states and the european union, which would increase the penetration of the us agro-industrial model in europe. this goes against a principle which i, as a socialist, must defend: a social europe based on the principles of solidarity!
i would like to join the previous speaker, who has already said very damning things about the markov report. i would also like to add that i too believe that the call for the mass amnesty of the third world countries will not be very effective in my view, will not provide a solution and could even have a perverse effect, because the control, even if limited, over these developing countries, over the governance of these developing countries by organizations such as the imf and other international institutions would then become impossible or much more difficult; in my opinion, only the most corrupt, incompetent and playful african and other leaders would benefit from it and get even richer. i know, louis michel, bob geldof and bono may be ready with their little finger, but i maintain - and that is the truth - that the great tragedy of many developing countries, especially in black africa, is that they are being plundered and robbed by their own leaders; i believe that is the first thing we must do before we can really help the poor.
mr president, last week families were massacred while picnicking on a beach in gaza. slaughtered, that's the word! it seems that there are so many interesting topics for this session that it is not possible to make it an urgent subject or even to talk about it! i would like to say that if this is a mistake, it is of such a magnitude that it deserves an independent investigation. if it is not a mistake, but a deliberate act, it is a crime that deserves to be tried by international courts. i hope that parliament will take this up. in 1987, the first intifada started as a result of a minor incident. this time, given the tense atmosphere in palestine, it is a real provocation. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. we have accepted those amendments.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and has recently launched a new environmental action programme. in order to involve citizens more closely in the implementation of environmental policy at all levels of government, better access to spatial environmental information is of great importance. with inspire, as you know, we want to set up an infrastructure for spatial information in europe, one of the main objectives of which is the exchange and sharing of data between public authorities. it is also intended to be the engine for the collection of new relevant environmental information and, ultimately, to be a tool for making environmental policy more efficient and effective across borders. the existing data infrastructures and environmental information in the member states will be better coordinated and made readable at eu level. the proposal covers both information needed to monitor the state of the environment and information to improve it. i think that all policy decisions which have a direct or indirect impact on the environment can be taken into account. i would like to give some examples. in order to protect citizens from flooding - and mr seeber, as rapporteur, will confirm this in due course - standardization and the exchange of data on river basins, watercourses and risks are of inestimable value. we will also be able to monitor and predict forest fires, such as we have seen in southern europe, but for this we need data on soil types, vegetation, humidity and wind direction. but data on the migration of schools, the water temperature and pollution also help to strike a better balance between the needs of fisheries on the one hand and the survival of certain fish species on the other. finally, in the context of avian influenza, for example, as we are experiencing it or hopefully not yet experiencing it, joint action could be even more efficient if data on poultry farms, wildlife and migratory birds across borders were available. the added value is also great for a number of other major european projects, such as gmis, as inspire can be the supplier of data needed to set up an operational global information system for environmental and safety monitoring within gmis. but enough about the importance and added value of inspire for those who may still have doubts about this. i would like to say a few words about the procedure, because about a year ago we almost unanimously adopted the report at first reading. the council reached a political agreement at the end of the luxembourg presidency and the common position followed in january this year. in the second reading report, as we are discussing it today, the committee on the environment has again emphasized some elements which we consider very important but which were deleted in the common position. let me just list the most important ones. we believe that public consultation and search services are very important and should be free of charge. free downloads are out of the question. you can, but you don't have to. the ability to embed click permissions remains, and for clarity: the sale of maps and atlases, for example, is not affected. parliament also opposes the use of unlimited analyses and additional feasibility studies in order to avoid the inspire project being drowned in advance. the committee on environmental management also considers that intellectual property rights of public authorities cannot be an argument for refusing access to environmental data. the exchange of data between public authorities does not exclude fees or authorisations. the proposal even provides that the financial viability of public authorities should be a concern of the member states. i therefore share the regret of my fellow shadow rapporteurs, whom i would like to thank very warmly for their very constructive cooperation on this very difficult and very technical dossier, that we were unable to reach an agreement with the council at second reading. however, an open and honest dialogue in the public interest must be possible, even during a conciliation procedure, and i think this report provides a good basis for that. i thank the commission and all the members for their support.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to thank mr buzek for the excellent cooperation and the spirit which has guided the preparation of this framework programme and, like him, i would say that the compromise amendments are amendments which are followed by all the groups and which therefore indicate the desire of parliament to clarify certain points. as regards the european research council, commissioner, i would like to say that it is clear that this is a new institution which is essential for the scientific community. we are therefore, like you, very concerned that it should function as well as possible within the framework of the autonomy of the scientific community. that is the meaning we give to our amendments on this subject, although legally it will have to be discussed during the trilogue. however, we would like to assure you of our interest in the european research council and the importance we attach to it. as regards the framework programme in general, we are, like you, a little disappointed by the reduction in resources because we know how important it is as an instrument for the lisbon policy. we also know that it can have a tremendous multiplier effect. in this respect, technology platforms and joint technology initiatives will play a key role, and it will not necessarily be a question of money, but rather of establishing, at european level, an effective public/private partnership on a few major themes. however, all these programmes must be based on excellence. this is a key factor in selecting projects, whether for collaborative research or for the 'capacities', 'ideas' and, above all, 'staff' strands, i.e. researchers, because what matters is having researchers who feel good about themselves. but today in europe researchers are not always given the social and moral status they deserve. that is why the european union must set an example by awarding quality marie curie grants, which build bridges between countries and help to slow down the brain drain. as regards the question of embryonic stem cells, which you raised, commissioner, it is true that this research component represents a very small part of the budget, barely one-thousandth. like you, i believe that the projects carried out under the sixth framework programme give every assurance of ethical quality and of the will to create projects at european level that are conducive to excellence. that is why the compromise amendment adopted in the committee on industry, research and energy on the initiative of mrs gutiérrez, which i co-signed and which you support, calls for continuing what has been done with the sixth framework programme, namely a case-by-case analysis which is essential to achieving a level of excellence in a promising research sector for the future. as far as the budget is concerned, as we said, we are all a little disappointed. i will personally see to it that in the first few years you do try to increase the relative share a little. it is true that an increase is expected, but it will be particularly marked after 2009. i therefore think that for the 2007 and 2008 budgets you should be able, within the commission, on the basis of the very good implementation rates, to increase the relative share, at least the share that parliament obtained at the end of the discussion on the financial perspective. although this share is somewhat symbolic, since it is only 340 million euros, we want it to be allocated to priorities such as the european research council and the marie curie fellowships, not to mention the thematic priorities. parliament is very concerned about the environment and energy and so these are the thematic priorities we want to support more. i would also like to draw your attention - i think you are, but, to my surprise, the council is less attentive - to the interaction between science and society. it is essential that we in europe develop a positive relationship between society and science, that we ensure that young people retain a taste for science and studies. the science and society strand is an example in this respect throughout europe and we will therefore be very careful not to cut its budget as the council has proposed. finally, i would also like to say, as others have done, that the jrc plays a vital role and that its activities in the nuclear sector contribute to harmonizing the safety issues we all need at european level. finally, rapid progress will be needed on the rules for participation. simplification of the programmes is a key point for the best possible participation. in this respect, we will have to keep a close eye on the timetable, because, as you have pointed out, 1 january 2007 is fast approaching. parliament will make a positive contribution to finding solutions to the rules of participation, as it is doing with regard to the seventh framework programme which we are about to vote on. that said, it is also a matter of the other two partners, the commission - and i have no doubt of your good will, commissioner - and the council taking matters into their own hands so that the scientific community can have all the peace of mind it needs for the seventh framework programme. again, congratulations on your work. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by joining in the thanks and congratulations that have been addressed to our rapporteur, mr buzek, and express my disappointment at this budget of 54 billion euros over seven years, which we would have liked to have seen more ambitious, much more ambitious, in the service of the europe of excellence we dream of. the creation of the european research council is therefore essential. others, including mr brunetta, have been there long before me, so i will not go into details here. another sensitive area for europe is energy and the various scenarios envisaged to get out of the oil age today, with a budget of 2 billion 385 million euro, adopted by the committee on industry, which gives priority to renewable energies. biofuels and biomass are part of the solution, which will also require education to consume less. the european concern to look beyond the long term and to chart the path to scientific freedom for those who need it most is, for the vast majority of my group, based on the continuity of european funding for research on embryonic stem cells. this research should be funded in the same way as research on adult stem cells or those derived from cord blood. that is what amendment no 66 proposes. the only real compromise of the itre committee, supported by mr busquin, mrs gutiérrez, mrs locatelli and a whole series of speakers before me, as well as by myself and a good part of my group, is the danger of a deadline for the eligibility of the lines, because it would be - and the commissioner has reminded us of this - a cut-off for the researchers of europe. it is this freedom of choice that i defend, this redress in the face of death, this hope that embryo research holds for patients with one of the 6,000 rare diseases. you gotta put the dots on the " i " s once in a while . we're talking here, and we're sticking to it, about research and compassion, not brave new world cloning fantasies, which you sometimes feel like you're hearing. the citizens of europe are asking us, and they are asking you, mr commissioner, by almost 70%, not to impede this very promising area of research. i am quoting the 2005 eurobarometer figures and i agree with my colleague, mr chatzimarkakis, that the blocking of the publication of the 2006 figures is not your doing, i know that. what is the presidency waiting for to authorize this publication?
mr president, i would still like to point out, in the wake of what mr buzek has just said, that we are going to have a trilogue, the council's absence from this debate. the budget in question is the third budget of the european union, research is the essential instrument of the lisbon strategy and parliament is committed to ensuring that the scientific and industrial community is respected by putting the 1 january objective in the forefront. the absence of the council is not a positive sign when it comes to starting a trilogue which must be held quickly. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the very good and constructive work he has done on this report, as of course do the members of the committee who have worked with him. i am pleased to see that the european parliament and the european commission are taking the same approach to such a serious matter. of course, i should stress at the outset that we are talking about the possibility of a pandemic; a potential pandemic. it's not a certainty! it could be caused by the avian flu virus, it could be caused by some other virus, it could be nothing at all. but the fact that it is a possibility, even though our scientists are telling us that it is a very high possibility, gives us no excuse not to prepare adequately, sufficiently, appropriately and as long as possible. it may be the first time in human history that we have a warning, that we have some signals that a pandemic like this is likely to come. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am particularly pleased about the report because most of what it asks us to do we have either already achieved or are in the process of covering and achieving. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to mention the example of the solidarity fund, which will help in the event of a pandemic to meet the pharmaceutical needs for vaccines and antivirals. it is a little over a year since we first discussed this matter in the house and i can say that we have achieved a great deal since then. we have now succeeded in having national preparedness and readiness plans in all the member states, we have the community readiness plan - the one we are discussing today - we have tested all the plans in a readiness exercise last november and we are now in the process of improving these plans based on the weaknesses identified in that exercise. there's very close cooperation with the world health organization. the european centre for disease control (ecdc) has taken the lead in this area and will soon be taking over the early warning system. i agree with the need for communication and information as far as citizens are concerned, and we have already started work in this area, we have organised meetings of the responsible representatives of the ministries of health of the member states and together with all the relevant organisations on how to handle messages to the public in a crisis and now we are proceeding with seminars and workshops with the media themselves to inform them, to inform them and to develop a partnership that will be exploited in a crisis. we're moving on to the issue of creating a pandemic vaccine. the european medicines agency is working in this area, we are working with industry, we are investing in research, we are trying to speed up procedures and of course to increase the production capacity of the pharmaceutical industry. as regards antivirals, we have already achieved a doubling of the production capacity of antiviral medicines compared to the previous year, but now the challenge is for the member states to exploit this capacity. it is their responsibility to make the necessary orders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. but this is a bit misleading, because it is not the same in every member state. some member states have more than 25% coverage and others almost none. it is therefore of particular importance that we set the necessary targets and cover these countries with anti-viral medicines. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has not proposed this, it is a matter for the member states. the commission has made no attempt to extend and increase its powers and responsibilities, but we have adopted this recommendation because we see the usefulness of having a european strategic reserve on the model of the reserve held by the world health organisation. it would cover member states until they have their national stocks and could also cover neighbouring countries and be used strategically in the first cases of pandemic firefighting to enable member states to cope with a prolonged pandemic. there is no legal basis for this at community level. it should have been done by unanimous agreement of the member states, which should have financed this effort. unfortunately, in the debate at the last council it appeared that a very small number of member states were opposed in principle to the creation of this strategic reserve. the overwhelming majority supported the case in principle, but a very large number of member states were not willing to meet these needs with national resources. i believe that in view of these positions of the member states there is no room for further discussion or further work on this subject. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the continuation of an already lengthy debate, without any prospect of agreement on the horizon, simply sends the wrong message, gives false hope, especially to the citizens and to the member states which are currently in need of this reserve, so it is better that everyone knows where he stands and therefore that each member state takes up its responsibilities. as i said at the beginning, most of the measures to be taken for pandemic preparedness are primarily the responsibility of the member states, but the european commission will continue to coordinate and take the initiative, to have a leading role in this preparation with exercises, with workshops, with working groups and even at ministerial level, but of course we consider the parliament's contribution to this effort to be particularly important. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. a man warned counts as two. i think that is the context in which we should view today's debate. without falling into any kind of doomsday thinking and without creating panic, it is good that the union and the member states are preparing for a possible scenario of an avian influenza pandemic in humans. the report by mr adamou sums up well what is being done and how the government should tackle this problem in a calm but decisive way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the contribution of communication experts, colleagues, will also be very important. they are people who can translate complex scientific findings into a simple but accurate way for the general public. i think that all this knowledge should be brought together in a european influenza working party, which should also work with the manufacturers, as mr adamou has suggested in his report. we must invest in the destruction of national egoisms. it is not justifiable that certain member states, often the most capital-intensive, are already buying up the production capacity of antiviral medicines from certain producers and refusing to show solidarity with those countries which are not in a position to do so. we therefore support paragraph 30 in particular, which specifically calls on the commission to ensure that there are adequate antiviral medicines and vaccines available to those who are exposed to the virus. commissioner kyprianou, you have spoken about this at length in your introduction. you said there was no legal basis for that. you also said that some member states are in principle in agreement but do not want to make the financial resources available. i would ask you to publish in your reply the names of the member states which refuse to show solidarity in full transparency.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank the members for a very interesting debate. once again it has been confirmed that we have the same approach and that we see eye to eye on this issue. almost all aspects of the preparedness plans are generic in nature. that means that, when we prepare for a possible flu pandemic, we are preparing not just for the possibility of avian flu, but for any flu pandemic and, when it comes to it, for any health threat. since they are mostly generic in nature, they can be used in any kind of health threat and they are therefore a good investment on the part of the member states and the community that will not go to waste. we should all pray that they do go to waste, that we do not have a health crisis and will never actually need to use them, but nevertheless it is a good investment in preparedness, both for natural pandemics and for bioterrorism. we are much better prepared than we were last year or the year before. we have not yet reached the target and we can never actually say that we have. it is a continuous effort and there is always room for improvement, always a need to do more. nevertheless, we have really come a long way, but we still have much to do. we still do not know a great deal about the specific virus. that is why we have invested so much in research into the specific avian flu virus and how it behaves. we have certain statistics, but given the areas where the virus usually occurs and is endemic, the reporting and monitoring is not as effective as in some other areas. we still lack data and will therefore be investing in this. i will not go into the animal health side, since we had an opportunity to discuss that recently in this house. however, the basic policy of the european union, as well as the world community, is to make sure that avian flu remains an animal disease. in order to do that, we have to eradicate and deal with it effectively at the animal level. cooperation is very important. we had the post-beijing conference in vienna last week, where practical steps were discussed for implementing and fulfilling the pledges already made in beijing. it is true that progress was slow. i am optimistic that things will speed up now. all the european commission decisions required for the eur 100 million pledged are in place now and it will start being spent on the various initiatives. the next meeting will be in africa and will cover the problems of the region. i must remind you that the european community has pledged money specifically for the african continent. i agree that it is very important to have the involvement of all services. that is what we have done in our specific plan and that is what we encourage member states to do in their own national plans. there should be a lead preparedness and response authority, but all services in each member state and at community level as well should be involved. the interoperability of national plans is also very important and we have been working on that. i totally agree with those of you who raised the issue, for example, of borders closing. in the reality of the european union, one member state cannot close its borders or cancel flights from a specific place when we have the internal market and freedom of movement. we need cooperation and coordination. we have already set up the structures and mechanisms to achieve that at community level. we have raised this issue at g8 level – international level – as well, proposing the ‘no first use’ principle, so that no g8 partner would close its borders and cancel flights without at least consulting the others in the group. i take your point on the issue of the institutions. as you know, we have been working on continuity of commission services. we have also asked parliament to look into this matter, and will be working closely with parliament’s services to ensure continuity within parliament and its meetings and services. antivirals are certainly a debated issue. antivirals are not a panacea, they are not a cure, they are the first line of defence and we have always said that. but as long as we do not have the pandemic virus, we will not have the pandemic vaccine which would be the basic defence. we are trying to shorten the period required to develop an approved licence and produce the vaccine, but we will need something in the meantime and antivirals are one solution. as regards the issue of stockpiles, it is not just that some member states object to the principle, but there is also reluctance by many member states on the funding of the stockpile. we explained that it will not be a substitute for national stockpiles. on the contrary, in our options paper we have introduced a condition that, in order to be able to benefit, a member state will have to prove that it has actually begun creating its own national stockpile. that would be a great relief, not only for the member states that are still in the process of developing stockpiles, but for the neighbouring countries as well, and for the who. the who would not then have to worry about the european region, because we would take care of ourselves and our neighbours and the who could concentrate on other regions in greater need than us. i totally agree with mrs grossetête, but i am afraid that was not the response we received. i was disappointed, but at the same time we have to be realistic. i do not want this debate to continue and then be used as an excuse for some member states not to develop national stockpiles. unless the council changes the position, the austrian presidency, ‘challenges’ – if i can use the expression – the member states to say they will be willing to review the position. it is important to emphasise that member states will have to create their own national stockpiles. i totally agree that this is a question of solidarity. to be realistic, if we cannot agree on the solidarity principle now, what is going to happen if there is a crisis and one member state has to share its medicine with other member states, with all the citizens feeling threatened? one of the weaknesses detected at the exercise last november was the unwillingness on the part of member states to share medicine. we therefore need to establish solidarity now, when we can be more realistic in our approach than in a time of crisis. then it can work in the way we would all wish. nevertheless, we will try to coordinate the member states and at least make sure that they take all the necessary steps for the sake of their individual citizens and european citizens in general. i will, as always, keep parliament informed of every step we take.
i see that mr kyprianou is leaving, but he did not answer the question as to which countries are ultimately not showing solidarity. mr bowis has rightly mentioned a number of names, but i would like to know from the commissioner whether those are indeed the correct names. i think it is extremely important that we as members of the european parliament do our job here, but also that we can pass on this knowledge to our colleagues in the national parliaments, so that our colleagues in the national parliaments can take on their governments which are failing and point out that there is a total lack of solidarity. i believe that this is also the essence of european democracy, namely that what we do in europe is translated into national and regional parliaments.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already been said in this debate, and sometimes contradictory. i would therefore like to say at the outset that i do not want to go back to the unacceptable events that have taken place and that are taking place every day in tunisia. i believe, and this is no doubt the expectation of a number of members of this house, that we must go beyond condemning this type of event, otherwise we would not stop doing so. what we want now - and many of us have said this - is action, that is to say, concrete decisions by the council and the commission vis-à-vis tunisia because of its incessant violations of human rights. we have the means to put pressure on the tunisian government, let us use them! in this connection, i welcome what i heard from the council representative, namely the convening of the subcommittee on human rights. it is a late answer, but if it could be put in place, that would be a good thing. it has become urgent, as others have said, to convene the association council provided for in the agreement between the union and tunisia and to impose on tunisia a binding timetable in which respect for human rights must be the central issue to be resolved. i believe that the union must have the courage to take strong political decisions, or else it will lose its credibility on the international scene, and i join mrs flautre in calling for the suspension of all cooperation with tunisia. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the resolution we are about to vote is addressed to the other european institutions, but it must also draw the attention of the europeans who, every year, are numerous and sunbathe on the beaches of djerba and tunisia in general, and remind them that there are prisons where democrats are languishing a few steps from their beach.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: the energy aspects, the need for further democratization in russia and the aspects of international politics have already been mentioned. it is also clear that the european union, russia and the united states are increasingly acting together on the international stage. russia is also an important player on the world stage after the collapse of the soviet union. the same applies at regional level, but we note that there are still great tensions between russia on the one hand and the states which have broken away from the soviet regime. i refer to the still difficult relationship with the baltic states, i refer to the situation in chechnya and i refer to the interference in ukraine aimed at smothering the orange revolution in its embryo. democracy in russia itself is at least precarious, considering the problems faced by ngos. the dialogue between the european union and russia must therefore be based on the need to improve respect for human rights, transparency in energy policy, the fight against corruption and the need to reduce centralism in general. another problem that deserves much more attention is that of the closed nuclear facilities which are now barely guarded and which could be used by terrorist groups to their advantage. this is a point which should be on the agenda permanently when we talk about relations between the european union and russia.
member of the commission. the european parliament will also participate in this consultation. as i said in my reply, we asked for a consultation on the whole area of patents policy. the closing date for submissions was 12 april 2006. there will be a hearing in brussels on 12 july 2006. that will be a consultation about the whole area of patent policy and does not specifically refer to computer-implemented inventions. i said in the debate leading up to the european parliament vote that if the european parliament were to reject the proposal at that stage i would not bring forward a further proposal in the area, so i shall not be bringing forward a further proposal.
member of the commission. as the honourable member is aware, the proposal on the community patent has been stuck at a certain stage and we have been unable to make progress. therefore, at the end of last year i thought that, rather than waiting for things to evolve, it was important to have a general consultation as to how stakeholders felt we should move forward. as i have said at committee meetings, it is still my intention to give the community patent one last try during my term of office. i will decide when i think is the best time to get that done and give it my best efforts at that time. i thought it was not good to leave things in abeyance and that it would be better to have this consultation about general patent policy, and that is what these consultations are about. the question the honourable member asked regarding codecision is a matter for the treaties. however, i personally favour codecision.
member of the commission. the commission did in fact consult smes on the last occasion, but i will pass on your remarks to the next commissioner. as i have repeatedly said, i will not be going into this area in my time as commissioner. however, i will gladly leave it on file and it will be available for the next commissioner who takes over this responsibility.
member of the commission. in response to the honourable member’s question on an alleged infringement of industrial property rights, the commission stresses that it cannot intervene in a legal dispute between private parties pending before the court of a member state. if a party believes that its industrial property rights have been infringed and sues in a national court, it is for the national judge to ascertain whether an infringement has taken place. it is also for the national judge to consider whether the relevant national legislation is in line with european community law and with international treaties to which the relevant country is a party. european community law governing the enforcement of intellectual property rights applies to trade names only insofar as these are protected as exclusive property rights in the national law concerned. in any event, the european community is not a contracting party to the paris convention on the protection of industrial property. the honourable member should also note that article 15.1 of the electronic commerce directive prohibits the application of a general filtering obligation to internet hosting services. according to article 14.3 of that directive, it is only a court or an administrative authority that can require a given service provider to terminate or prevent a specific infringing activity. in addition, the commission does not consider that the points raised by the honourable member relate to the market power or the potential monopoly that the company in question may have.
i thank you for your answer, commissioner. i believe that there is an important european dimension to these problems. you also know that research shows that the modal consumer uses search engines to get to the right website, much more than by typing the address directly, because it's easier, but also because the consumer trusts this search engine. now it appears that this trust is not always justified and it worries me that a private company does not seem to have to follow the rules. i therefore think that the commission should take the initiative to ensure that consumers and businesses, including small businesses, can use these services safely.
member of the commission. article 152 makes it clear that the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care are the responsibility of member states, as i mentioned before. competent national authorities are free to make their own decisions on the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical articles, provided that these decisions are made in a transparent manner and do not create barriers to trade. member states therefore play a key role, as do the national competition authorities. however, they need to be transparent in the decisions they take in that national context.
member of the commission. as we are all aware, there are quite a number of issues to be dealt with. but first let me first correct one point in the oral question by the honourable member. contrary to what he is implying in his question, the commission has not yet formed any opinion on whether the proposed merger between suez and gaz de france complies with the ec merger regulation. the proposed merger was indeed notified on 10 may 2006 and the commission will take a decision by 19 june 2006 as to whether or not a thorough second-phase investigation under the eu merger regulation will be necessary. this assessment will be based on the wide-ranging market investigation currently under way. the honourable member can rest assured that the commission is investigating this case very carefully – like all other cases, by the way – in order to assess the impact of this operation on the european energy sector, and in particular in belgium and in france, where those parties have a very important market position. the commission cannot prejudge the result of the investigation – you would not blame me for that. the extent and gravity of any possible competition problems can only be established after the market investigation; but, should this investigation confirm the existence of any competition problems, then the parties would have the opportunity to propose appropriate remedies, and this is in line with the usual practice. finally, the commission would wish to recall its extensive experience in assessing remedies based on earlier cases, especially in this sector.
commissioner, very shortly. i understand that you want to be careful and you refer to remedies, but you are of course aware that you are the most important guarantee for the belgian consumer and for the belgian companies that are customers of gas and electricity that prices will remain affordable. can you at least confirm that you will intervene and can you tell us more about the nature of those remedies? can you also confirm that you can guarantee that competition will be guaranteed, that there will be no monopoly and that the merged company may be obliged to divest part of its activities in belgium, depending on the results of the investigation?
member of the commission. i am not going to prejudge what may come to light in the investigations. in any case, we are very much aware that we are talking about an eventual merger that will create one of the largest european energy companies. this means that we are very aware of the fact that, with this conclusion - which a child can draw - we will have to be extremely careful and we will have to determine in good faith whether something is in line with european competition rules. you can be sure that the consumer plays a very important role in competition policy, because ultimately the consumer is very much served by our experience of fair competition and a good situation of groups in the market.
member of the commission. i am afraid that this is my second interaction today with the honourable member, mr staes, and i have to disappoint him for a second time in one afternoon. even though the idea and the proposal are very interesting and would have been worth exploring in the past, we have already reached a very advanced level of cooperation at various levels within and outside the european union on avian flu, not only as regards a possible pandemic but also on the animal health side. therefore, we feel that, at this point, it would not offer any added value to have any more coordinating bodies. i should like to assure the honourable member that the tasks this task force would have performed are already at very advanced stages – if not completed – in the european union. that also applies to the who, who europe, the g8 and other international organisations. we therefore feel that adding another coordinating group could have the negative effect of confusing responsibilities which have already clearly been defined. we believe strongly in close collaboration with our different partners and we have already reached an advanced stage there. we hold joint meetings of the chief health officers, the chief veterinary officers and all the experts on animal and human health. we are also funding various research projects. for example, we have launched a major initiative on the development of pandemic influenza vaccines. on the availability of research data, the european centre for disease control is already active in making such data available and early-warning networks for outbreaks in humans and animals are already in place. the creation very recently of an eu-wide network of media officers is also a major step. in the area of seasonal vaccination coverage, i remind health ministers repeatedly of the who objectives and the advantage of extending and expanding the coverage of seasonal influenza vaccination in readiness for a possible pandemic. in terms of global partnership, the european union is actively engaged in close collaboration with china and the united states – these are the two international initiatives brought together after the beijing conference. only last week we had the follow-up meeting in vienna, in which we discussed practical ways of taking this forward. it is true that there was a delay in delivering the funds pledged in beijing. nevertheless, the decision has now been taken to proceed as quickly as possible. it is very appropriate that the next meeting on this issue will take place in africa, which is a region that has recently been affected. nevertheless, and in conclusion, i should like to say that we are always open to suggestions. we do not have any prejudices and are not afraid of sharing views, responsibilities and cooperation. we are always open to ideas and suggestions that would improve both the effectiveness of our preparedness measures and collaboration at both eu and international level.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his answer, which is a little disappointing, especially since it contradicts the adamou report we have discussed here today, in which article 23 calls for the creation of a task force, an influenza task force. you say that it will not have any added value, but all the scientists i have spoken to in the preparation of the adamou report say that there is indeed a great deal of expertise, but that it is very diffuse and that such an influenza working party would indeed have added value and would even work better than the ecdc which is now carrying out a number of tasks. so, can you explain again why this working group would not have added value?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is important to have a discussion this evening on the drugs monitoring centre in lisbon. it is a successful european agency, which has proved particularly useful in implementing our european strategy for drug prevention and control. i would just like to mention some figures on drug use in europe, which i think are very impressive. this is data coming from the monitoring centre in lisbon. every month, one and a half million european citizens use cocaine, nine and a half million use cannabis, and three million use the latter drug more or less regularly, that is to say daily. in addition, the use of mixed drugs, often combined with alcohol, is increasing sharply. finally, the use of ecstasy, which is unfortunately increasingly produced in europe, has also increased. over one million european citizens are regular users of ecstasy. i am glad that this proposal is based on article 152 of the treaty, which allows parliament to have a full role in this matter. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs brepoels, in particular for her report, which i consider to be important and balanced, and for her efforts to reach agreement on the commission's proposal at the first reading of the codecision procedure. i believe that the compromise amendments tabled by the rapporteur will be accepted, and that will make it possible to conclude this report successfully. i can give my favourable opinion on most of the amendments, with a few exceptions which i will mention briefly. my doubts are about amendments nos 8, 15, 18 and 32 to 39. i would just like to make a small reference to amendment no 15, which provides for a european parliament opinion on the centre's three-year work programme. the interinstitutional agreement provides for a legislative rather than an executive role for parliament, and i therefore believe that the drawing up of an opinion or the approval of the work programme of an executive centre would be a step away from the european parliament's role of political control. amendment no 18 deals with a matter which is a horizontal competence of the commission, and concerns the regulation of 18 european agencies. this amendment cannot be accepted not because of the merits of the matter, but because the search for political agreement on the horizontal proposal is under way. finally, amendments nos 32 to 39 give me cause for concern because they seem to me to be outside the scope of the compromise reached between the three institutions, since they provide for a specific evaluation role for the centre of lisbon which seems to me to be quite outside the role of the centre of lisbon. the main purpose of this centre is to provide tools to facilitate the evaluation and monitoring of the member states and the commission. i therefore think it is not advisable to provide for an independent evaluation role for the centre. apart from these objections, i support both the report and the rapporteur's amendments.
the proposal we are discussing today has a long history, as the legal debate dates back to the end of 2003, when the commission presented its first proposal. the parliament then issued an opinion in april 2004, but afterwards, following discussions in the council, it was decided to change the legal basis by which the codecision procedure was applied. the commission proposal covers a number of issues. it actually provides for the codification of three earlier amendments, but also for the extension of the role of the centre and the adjustment to the new european reality after the enlargement of the ten new countries. the centre will therefore focus more on new trends in drug use, such as the combination of legal and illegal psychoactive substances. the proposal also aims to make a number of changes to adapt the functioning of the centre's organs to day-to-day practice and, as i said, to the enlargement of the european union. we are convinced that each of the proposed changes will be beneficial to the efficiency of the centre. we support the demand for more objective and comparable data, the incorporation of the executive office in the centre's rules of procedure, the regular evaluation of the centre's activities and the reitox network of national focal points. finally, we think that the six-yearly external evaluations are very important. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. parliament considered that the exchange of information on best practices in dealing with the drug problem could add value to member states' policies, since the centre's main task is to collect and disseminate information on drugs and drug use. as regards the composition of the executive committee, it seems appropriate to appoint, in addition to the chair and the vice-chair, two members of the management board representing the member states and two representatives of the commission. of course, decisions in this case should be taken by consensus. we also think it desirable that the president of the centre should be able to be heard by parliament in addition to the director of the centre. we also believe that a far-reaching cooperation between the national focal points and the organisations active in this field will enable rapid and adequate monitoring of the european drug situation and will enable the member states to respond more adequately to new developments and phenomena concerning drugs and drug use. the main points of discussion with the council in this dossier concerned the composition of the scientific committee and the procedure for appointing the director. the scientific committee is responsible for giving opinions on scientific questions concerning the centre's activities. parliament considered that the composition of this committee should be limited to a maximum of 15 members, selected on the basis of their expertise by an open procedure, and not to one representative from each member state, as was the case up to now. as the commissioner said, a proposal for the appointment and renewal of the director's term of office for all agencies is currently pending, it was decided to return to the provisions of the founding regulation and await the outcome of these negotiations. the commission has always sought to reach an agreement between the three institutions, including the council and the commission, at first reading. i am very glad that after many discussions we have succeeded in this. the compromise proposed takes over almost all the proposals of parliament and we are therefore convinced that nothing can prevent the conclusion of an agreement or its approval tomorrow. i would like to express my sincere thanks to the austrian presidency, to the commission and to my shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups for the very constructive cooperation.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr barroso, i would like to return to one aspect of your speech. you said, quite rightly, "you have to walk on two legs. on the one hand, the deepening of the single market, on the other, social solidarity". i would add: social justice and equity. i think, mr president of the commission, that rejection and europe-pessimism are fuelled by a fairly clear awareness that we are not exactly walking on two legs and that the action of your commission, like that of the council, has been to privilege the first leg. i would like to say or remind you that under your presidency, as under the prodi commission, no new social legislation has been decided by the european institutions. in addition, no new collective agreements between the social partners have been concluded. it is this profound imbalance, i believe, that is increasingly felt by a section of the population which, because of globalisation, is the most precarious. it seems to me that the council, parliament and the commission must respond to this situation. this brings me to the second point, which concerns instruments for solidarity or social justice. mr president of the commission, we cannot build a fair model tomorrow if we do not have a tax policy at european level. this is the contradiction between those who are reluctant to pursue enlargement and those who want more social justice: maintaining unanimity on any taxation issue is tantamount to blocking the possibility of a european taxation policy. it took 15 years to have a directive on savings income, which is also full of exceptions, and we are not making any progress on common standards for corporate taxation. in conclusion, mr president, the political project of the european union is not simply a single market, which we need, but competition between national models. we need more voluntarism and common policies at european level to guarantee fairness and a european model of society.
mr crowley has asked for the vote on the second part of amendment no 2 to be postponed. if you look at the numbers on your machine, there's a difference of a hundred people who didn't vote between part one and part two. you had about 630 votes in the first part, you had 545 in the second part. sometimes you close the electronic voting system too quickly, so that people don't have the opportunity, when they listen to the interpretation, to react. i would ask you to take a little more time for that. (applause from the left)
president. - mr weiler, in his book 'the constitution of europe' you have described in detail how the court of justice systematically extended the powers of the european institutions in the past without any democratic legitimacy and without any mandate from the governments of the member states. now, by virtue of that notorious judgment of 13 september 2005, criminal law is also a european competence. the court of justice is thus sweeping the floor with the limitations of jurisdiction of the european treaties. it seems that the court of justice is a kind of legal absurdistan with judges who are out of touch with the world and who are no longer accountable to anyone or anything. it is therefore surprising that our citizens, when given the opportunity, should express their dissatisfaction by voting against the european constitution, for example.
mr president, this month we have another report, this time by our colleague mr ždanoka, which is a report against racism and discrimination. again, a catalogue of politically correct clichés that are becoming a speciality of this institution. it is raining again with speeches of racism and discrimination and calls for european legislation and for the member states to be obliged to actually discriminate against european citizens in favour of foreigners, who, according to this report, should not only have the same political and social rights, but who should also have priority in many areas. it is clear that in this european parliament there is little common sense to see that racism in europe is fortunately a very marginal phenomenon, but that on the other hand our citizens are concerned about the erosion and the damage to the security, prosperity and cultural identity to which they are entitled.
i voted against the zdanoka report because, for the umpteenth time, we are faced with a series of proposals which do not solve the problem, but which are part of the problem. we need to stop treating minority groups like immigrants as pathetic. we must stop attributing all their problems in advance to discrimination. this left-wing discourse has only exacerbated the problems. we need a full course change. we must emphasize personal responsibility and the need for immigrants to adapt to our laws, our language, our standards and values. by always talking about so-called discrimination, as we do here in the european parliament, we weaken the impulse for foreigners to integrate. this may be good for the growing anti-discrimination industry, but it is bad for the immigrants and the country in which they have settled.
in writing. fight against all forms of discrimination, another example of the union's pioneering legislation in the social field. today, in response to a commission green paper, parliament is adopting an own-initiative report setting out its vision of the means to be used to combat discrimination, in society and in the workplace. in 2000, the eu adopted two directives (2000/43 and 2000/78) obliging the member states to have a legislative and judicial apparatus capable of stopping this phenomenon. while all national legislation has thus been considerably strengthened, there is still work to be done, particularly in the field of education. parliament therefore proposes a whole series of ways of combating the various forms of direct and indirect discrimination, whether based on ethnic origin, sex, age, disability, sexual orientation or religious beliefs. promote best practice to avoid the 'positive discrimination' or quota logic advocated by some. the union has few powers in social matters, but it is clear that it takes the lead when it has the means to do so. this is an ambitious text, an additional thumbs-up for those who denounce an anti-social europe.
in writing. i abstained on the joint resolution on the accession of bulgaria and romania because the value of this position is not clear to me at this stage. i would have preferred that the european parliament had waited for the follow-up report which the commission will present at the beginning of october this year before taking a decision. if, incidentally, it should appear at this stage that the commission has serious reservations about the advisability of accession on 1 january 2007 of either of these countries, i do not see the point of the resolution voted today. the incantation ritual of our parliament is not, in my view, a sign of good democratic health.
in his last speech a few minutes ago, commission president barroso actually, perhaps unintentionally, put his finger on the wound. he said that the european union could not expand and deepen against the will of the european citizens. - that's right. - what? it is a pity that this statement was followed by more voluntarist talk, whereas the real pain points are well known. i'll summarize them: the lack of democratic legitimacy of the european project, the great questions about the proper use of european resources and, above all, those accession negotiations with turkey, which our citizens do not accept and will never accept and which a democratic majority of our citizens will never choose. europe will not get back on track until something is done about it.
in writing. in essence, i want to say that i refuse to bury the draft constitutional treaty today! no to the neurotic feeling of failure! let's give ourselves a chance to move forward. let us continue the ratification process so as to reach the 4/5th threshold set out in declaration 30. in that case, as we know, the european council will have to deal with the matter. it will then have much more information than it does today to examine, in particular: - whether and under what conditions ratification could be resumed in countries where referendums have been rejected; - how to safeguard at least those parts of the text which make the charter of fundamental rights legally binding, those which allow an enlarged europe to function better or those which enhance the union's social role. i do not believe that a majority of citizens are against these aspects of the text. this is certainly not to the liking of those who have mastered the art of doubt and demoralization. but personally, i want to revive the virtuous circle of the european integration process.
mr president, one more resolution to denounce racist, anti-semitic and homophobic acts, a resolution which is unfortunately justified in view of the exceptional and alarming level of hatred and intolerance that has reached in the european union in recent years. the fact is that racist attacks - all forms of racism - are on the increase. article 2 of our joint motion for a resolution refers to the last of these: in antwerp, on 12 may 2006, oulemata niangadou was murdered because she was black, and with her the little luna whom she was in charge of. in france, ilan halimi is kidnapped, tortured, murdered because he is a jew. we could spend days discussing the causes of these barbaric acts. the first, in my view, is the trivialization, the trivialization of discourse. there are speeches like "let's not throw oil on the fire", there are those who advocate the famous "social peace quest", there is a certain culture of the unspoken as well, reinforcing the sense of impunity enjoyed by the perpetrators of such xenophobic acts, and then, above all, there are the speeches that set the minds on fire. i will give you a concrete example, one of many, of this creeping trivialization that sclerosises the minds and prevents the public authorities from acting when it is time. in france, the advisory commission on human rights found that in 2004 half of all physical and verbal attacks in the country were caused by anti-semitism. it took two years and the assassination of ilan halimi for french citizens to become aware of an anti-semitic culture that is proudly displayed in some suburbs among a minority, certainly, but a very active and particularly embrigaded minority. two years too many, two years that should have been spent on observing, denouncing, integrating and bringing people together. i usually end on a positive note. i could have, for example, quoted recital i and said that we must work for an education in respect for the other, in dialogue, in tolerance. it is an obvious, an imperative duty: the knowledge to recognize the other in all its richness and altitude. i would like to conclude, mr president, by recalling that to stem the rise of racism, we must first, to paraphrase albert camus, dare to name things, dare to identify those who are causing them, dare to speak the truth.
first of all, mr president, i would naturally like to join in the strong and absolute condemnation of all forms of violence. the perpetrators of violence, whatever their origin, must be severely punished. that's out of the question. secondly, however, i would also like to point out that violence by isolated individuals must not and must never lead to a witch hunt against people and parties who have nothing to do with that violence and who merely peacefully point out the dangers and the enormous problems of far too massive and by no one really controlled immigration. thirdly, i would point out that there is a great deal of reasonableness to be found in this parliament. the joint resolution which will be put to the vote tomorrow is simply worthless because of its grotesque exaggerations and because of the interplay between violence on the one hand and legitimate criticism of the unworkable multicultural society on the other. it is also appallingly undemocratic in its actual call for further restrictions on freedom of expression.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr costa, and the other shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. we agree on almost everything, except on a few minor points, or on the important issues, and we will be able to take a strong stand as a parliament. safety has, of course, been a more important issue since september 11th than ever before, and it stands to reason that the aviation sector demands our particular attention, given the potentially devastating effects of airstrikes. for my group, this means that we must always strive for the best possible security, but that this must be accompanied by sufficient transparency and respect for civil liberties. security efforts and related costs should be proportionate to the security risks. the committee of experts which adopts decisions implementing this framework legislation should not be given carte blanche to propose anything without a counter-opinion. amendment no 61 is therefore important, since it formally provides for the creation of a stakeholder advisory group. we believe that not only industry but also other organisations such as passenger associations and, where appropriate, organisations which can give advice on civil liberties should be able to take part. we also ask for an annual report on the application of this regulation. the second point on which we agree - the rapporteur has already referred to this - is that it must be made clear who is to bear the cost of airport security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road transport sector is not compromised. is it the users, is it the industry, is it the government? it will of course have to be a combination, but what is important is that we should pursue the same european rules of the game everywhere. we have already discussed this on another occasion, commissioner. you were supposed to come up with an initiative by the summer. we're looking forward to it. the commission proposal introduces a new chapter on safety on board civil aircraft. it includes the famous sky marshals, armed security officers on board airplanes. we are in principle against the presence of weapons on aircraft because misuse or accident can have catastrophic consequences and we are therefore not in favour of these measures. the problem is that the deployment of security agents is a matter for the member states and will remain so. some countries, such as france and britain, use them, others, such as greece and spain, do not. in these circumstances, we are pleased that this addition provides the opportunity to regulate this matter at least partly at european level, for example by imposing uniform procedures and strict safety requirements or by providing for common training. we have tabled two amendments ourselves. firstly, a formal amendment on gibraltar airport to bring the text into line with existing agreements. secondly, an amendment in which we call for the establishment of a european system for the certification of equipment used for airport security, such as x-ray scanners, etc. this is a matter for a european approach, if only because not all member states have the necessary knowledge to be able to make a good judgement of the increasingly modern security equipment. the confusion of standards is also a handicap for european industry compared with american industry. so i'd like your support on this, too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his work. you say the right things in your report, even in the details. it's all there. it is a little strange that in 2006, at the end of the 21st century, we are still debating the need for a single signalling system, a single railway signalling system. at a time when other modes of transport are already much more advanced, it seems that cross-border european traffic has never really been important to the monopolies. they have never put the money they should have put in it, nor have they had the ideas to work out such things. it is a little strange that we should be discussing this kind of basic railway stuff now. we are pleased that in the hearing you have organized, the infrastructure people say: "yes, we would like to use ertms". we already think that's a success. we're just glad they're not saying, "yes, we're not really interested, because it's much too expensive and for those few trains that cross the border, they might as well take trucks, because you can track them via satellite. we'll see what we can do about the trains". the enthusiasm we are showing is not really reflected in the people who should be helping to get things going, namely the member states, the railway companies and the infrastructure managers. i am of course following the approach of mr cramer. he says the right things. you have to take a whole corridor from the start to the finish. all in, including the last mile. there must be eu support for the cross-border sections and no single corridor should be favoured. the whole project must be considered and the main lines kept in mind. the ultimate aim is to equip the whole european rail network, or at least the main lines, with them. we'll have to find something more than that 5 billion euro in 10 years. then it will be a very different amount. i would like to see whether the railway companies and the member states are prepared to put that money on the table. because that little european money is very little in the whole budget. we must not pretend that we are going to put the money on the table. with only 1% of gross national product, one cannot work miracles. the member states and others never want to see that and think that europe, even if it has no money, should be the engine of this kind of thing. the railways will also have to prove that the money they have received is being used well, that they are going to take care of the customers and attract customers, so that the main objective of ertms - namely the better use of the network - is achieved so that the railways really become a mode of transport that competes with the other modes of transport.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cramer, for the good result that we have been able to achieve. it wasn't easy, given the sensitivities of this case. the compromise amendments which were finally adopted are very important. i am thinking, for example, of one of the points of discussion, namely whether or not to specify one corridor. in the end, we chose six major rail corridors. that's important because it indicates that they're all important. whether or not progress is made will depend on the efforts and will of the member states and companies concerned. the objective of ertms must ultimately be to see it applied everywhere, because a single european railway market cannot become competitive with other modes of transport if we continue to operate with more than 20 different signalling systems. that means, indeed, that we must tackle whole trajectories and not just parts of them. the main problem, of course - and most of the honourable members have already mentioned this - is the financing of ertms and, indeed, of the other transeuropean networks. we must therefore be creative and indeed raise funds from the cohesion fund, for example, and possibly in conjunction with the european investment bank, to raise additional funds. these resources must be distributed fairly, but they must also be spent properly and efficiently. i wish the commission and the ertms coordinator every success in this difficult balancing exercise.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, we welcome the fact that the specific problems of coastal fishing are recognised in this report and that the regional advisory councils are mentioned. my group has two objections, however. firstly, we want to emphasize subsidiarity. the differences between the regions are too great to justify any attempt at harmonization in this sector. the alde group also believes that eu money should be used to promote sustainability in coastal fishing, for example by reducing fuel consumption, and not to increase capacity. if our amendments on these two points are not taken up, my group will have to abstain. we should like to thank the rapporteur for bringing coastal fishing to the fore in his own-initiative report.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, a parliament has many responsibilities. not just making and simplifying laws, but also monitoring certain decisions and whether or not those decisions have been implemented correctly. the core of these control tasks is the control of the implementation of the budget. the commission has also been asked to examine whether the more than 100 billion euros used to implement european policies have been properly spent. to ensure that european taxpayers' money is used in a useful and efficient way and that it reaches the right hands. for the 2004 financial year, irregularities and fraud reported by the member states amounted to almost eur 1 billion. while we used to see that most of these reports concerned mainly agriculture and less structural policy expenditure, we now see, as mr bösch has rightly said, a reverse trend. more reports in the structural funds, less in agriculture. the fall in agricultural production is of course entirely due to the proper functioning of the integrated administration and control system. against this background - and i want to emphasize this - it is unacceptable that one member state, greece, is still in default seven years after the facts. mr bösch gives a good overview of what is wrong in his report and he does not hesitate to mention man and horse. he is right to use the highly efficient method of naming and shaming. in the past year, thanks in part to the support of commissioner callas, we have succeeded in forcing a number of member states to disclose the names of the final beneficiaries of agricultural payments. that gives us a good idea of how agricultural money is spent and a good idea of the anomalies. it has taught us, once again, that the money does not always go to the farmers, but to the big food giants. i think we should now go a step further and force the member states to also disclose the final beneficiaries of the structural funds, including the regional fund and the social fund. i would also like to take this debate to commend the people of olaf here. they're doing a great job. they get criticism sometimes. mr bösch rightly raises a number of criticisms in his report, but we must also bear in mind that enormous progress has been made in the last eight years. finally, a word on two very fragile areas, vat fraud and cigarette smuggling. vat fraud must be tackled and i welcome the commission's communication on this. as regards cigarette smuggling, i will be publishing an own-initiative report later this year. i am very pleased that, despite the fact that there is an own-initiative report, mr bösch has already devoted a number of paragraphs to this problem in his report. we have an agreement with philip morris. the money we get from that should be used for the anti-fraud policy. i think we should look together with the commission, as commissioner špidla rightly said, at how that money should be used, for example in the hercules programme. we will have to invest a lot of time and energy in this over the next few months.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to add the topic of hydrogen and fuel cells to the activities on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
in writing. beyond the disappointment caused by the shrinking resources, the vote on this report is fundamental and is a sign of hope for the world of research, but also for those who suffer and who are so eager for progress in this field. i want to criticise the obscurantism of some conservatives who reject the research on embryos, which is so promising. indeed, cutting-edge research in this area has already made tremendous progress in understanding diseases such as diabetes, parkinson's disease, and alzheimer's. fortunately, amendments nos 352, 354, 319, 356, 357, 358 by mr gargani, mr niebler and mr zaborska were rejected. it is very clear, however, that research on embryonic stem cells must be carried out under very strict ethical conditions. finally, i would like to pay particular tribute, in addition to mr buzek, to my colleague and head of the belgian socialist delegation, mr philippe busquin, who, following his excellent work as european research commissioner, continues to work tirelessly for the advancement of research in our parliament.
in writing. this morning parliament voted on the costa report on common rules in the field of civil aviation safety. as the holidays approach and millions of passengers are preparing to board their planes for their dream destinations (some 16 million a year at brussels national), i think it is worth recalling some essential rules on safety on board airplanes. if some people complain about having to submit to strict controls, i would remind them that this is the price to pay. the fluidity may suffer, but it will be to everyone's benefit. this report is a set of revisions to a 2002 law passed in the wake of the september 11, 2001 attacks. if we want to talk about safety, we have to insist on the basic standards of controls, surveillance, prohibited items and security officers on board aircraft. the only objective is to achieve greater coherence in the policies pursued to achieve a 'single security' across the member states of the european union.
i have already said in the debate yesterday why i think this resolution is foolish and undemocratic, so i shall not go back on it today, and i am already joining in advance all the bad things that my colleague philip claeys is going to say about it. i would just like to add to that today that there is also another very large category of very real victims of very real racism that nobody seems to care about and that this institution never issues resolutions on either. that is the category of the very many indigenous people who are no longer allowed to feel at home in their own streets or in their own cities, who are victims of racist, anti-indigenous violence. these are elderly people and women who cannot go out after sunset and are terrorized in public transport. but these people are not in the favour of the politically correct, left-wing, fashionable opinion mafia, which unfortunately also has too much of a say in these institutions.
i voted against the resolution on racist and homophobic violence because i cannot accept that a legitimate aim in itself should be tarnished by partisan considerations. i am thinking of recital e, where we are discussing political parties which are calling out the failure of the multicultural model and are advocating the preservation of national identities in europe. paragraph 11 is inspired by the inability of the left to accept that right-wing parties win democratic elections and form a government. paragraph 12 then generalizes the typical belgian system where parties are deprived of their funding when they denounce the failing immigration policy. this is a threat to the right to free speech, just as, incidentally, recital k which seeks to introduce censorship on the internet. almost all the groups which tabled this resolution are in favour of turkey's accession to the european union. perhaps they could look at the situation there with discrimination against minorities and homophobia.
mr president, several of the previous speakers have already pointed out: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. next to cuba, north korea, which we're talking about today, is one of the last communist tyrannies on earth. even to the equally ruthless communist regime in north korea, a human life is worth nothing unless one is a loyal slave to the regime. in this communist paradise, the scarce food goes - as has already been pointed out - first of all to the privileged nomenclature, to the military and the security services. the rest of the population is subject to a rationing system, the so-called public distribution system, which is designed to keep everyone motionless and obedient. recently, the regime suspended operations of the world food programme and banned the private sale of grain. a similar criminal policy in the early 1990s cost the lives of millions of people, and to think that there are still friends of such a regime in some of the groups in this parliament.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a presidency does not have to be spectacular to be successful. it is clear that a lot of vision, a lot of realism, a lot of consultation and a lot of commitment is needed - austria has proved this - to achieve success on several fronts, and that deserves praise. the financial perspective has been agreed. we were not happy with the level of the budgets, but with the results of the negotiations in terms of quality and we were able to agree to the interinstitutional agreement. you have also paid a great deal of attention to the completion of the internal market, in particular the services directive. on the other hand, your ministers, mr chancellor, have encouraged us to make a real effort. there is now a prospect of a balanced services directive, and that was our common objective. there is also agreement on comitology, which has not been received badly in our group. it is also important that the council, under your leadership, has succeeded in preserving the constitution. if we have a constitutional treaty by the 2009 elections, it will be thanks to you. mr president, i have one question on the conclusions of the summit. the question of absorption capacity is mentioned in the chapter on enlargement, but it is not really mentioned as a condition for future enlargements. can you clarify this point or is there no position yet and is it awaiting the commission document? finally, i would like to congratulate the council on its decision to make the decision-making process transparent. the continuing uncertainty over the voting behaviour of the belgian government in determining the common position on the services directive, which has lasted for hours, perfectly demonstrates the need for it. we therefore fully support it. thank you, mr president-in-office, it has been a great pleasure for parliament to work with your whole team.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, last month we had a debate here on the tragic murders in antwerp of a two-year-old girl and her malian nanny by an 18-year-old maniac. ten days ago, my city of antwerp was again shocked by brutal and racist violence. on a public transport bus, six young immigrants in broad daylight, in the middle of a busy city, stabbed a 53-year-old train driver to death because he dared to ask them to make less noise. it reminds me of the two frenchmen, jean-claude irvoas and jean-jacques le chenadec, who were lynched for similar reasons during the riots in the suburbs of france last year. colleagues, there is racism here too, anti-white, anti-flemish and anti-french racism. i therefore express the hope that this parliament, concerned about all forms of xenophobia and intolerance, will immediately organise a topical debate on the explosive situation with migrants in the neighbourhoods of some of the major european cities. at least then the courageous gesture of my murdered compatriot will not have been in vain.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all recall the excellent spirit which prevailed in the committee on regional development when it considered the three proposals for amendments to the regulations which are now before the house. the narrow financial perspective for 2007-13 has not, i believe, prevented us from improving the legislative instruments for this reform, which for us european socialists is fundamental because it reflects the solidarity between the regions. our work has highlighted the need to support sustainable urban development in our regions, as jean-marie beaupuy has just mentioned. in this connection, it is worth noting the increasing concentration of europeans in cities. we have also succeeded in taking better account of the special situation of the regions affected by the statistical effect, which will be able to benefit from a transitional support mechanism. apart from the weakness of the budgetary basis of this reform, let me point out two disappointments. the first is a half-deception, since it concerns the partial eligibility of housing expenditure, which i fought hard for. this is welcome, but it is regrettable that it is only possible in the countries which joined after 1 may 2004. this national distinction is dangerous to me; it is also unfounded because the housing crisis is very present in some large cities in other member states. second disappointment: i do not understand why the period during which a company cannot move its activities abroad has been reduced when it has benefited from structural funds. this period was set at seven years in the commission's original proposal, which was confirmed by the vote in this parliament, and in view of recent events, particularly the loss of jobs caused by relocations in europe, i would ask the commission to review the report on relocations adopted by this parliament in march.
in writing. every year, nearly 800 000 tonnes of car batteries, 190 000 tonnes of industrial batteries and accumulators and 160 000 tonnes of portable batteries are placed on the eu market. these batteries contain heavy metals (mercury, lead, cadmium) which are harmful to the environment and human health. however, currently only six member states have a national collection system for the recycling of used batteries. among these, belgium is a good student: its collection rate is close to 60%! i am in favour of the directive we are about to vote on, which specifically aims to organise such a system throughout the eu by 2008. some of the proposed measures are particularly worthy of our support: a general ban on the placing on the market of batteries or accumulators containing an excessive proportion of heavy metals; the setting of quantified collection and recycling targets; the obligation to mention the actual lifetime on the label in order to inform the consumer; support for research into the development of more environmentally friendly batteries and new recycling techniques.
in writing. in the context of my colleague alain lamassoure's very technical report on the union's own resources, i think it is essential to recall the idea put forward by belgium and guy verhofstadt a few years ago to give the union genuine financial autonomy, by means of what has been called the introduction of a european tax. an additional tax? i'm sure you didn't. simply, instead of paying to the national state what we have to pay to europe, allow direct funding by the european citizen, like the american citizen vis-à-vis the federal state. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would remind you that europe costs 26 cents a day to every european! while the project is welcomed by some member states (austria, luxembourg), others remain wary of an instrument designed to bring europe closer to europeans. this would also help us to get out of the sterile debate between net contributors and net beneficiaries. europe will then certainly have the means to achieve its ambitions!
in writing. more than a year ago, with 13 of my belgian colleagues in the european parliament, i signed a white paper in la libre belgique calling on the 25 heads of state and government to go beyond the objectives of the kyoto protocol. among the proposals put forward was the priority to include emissions from the aviation and shipping sectors in future climate protection plans. it is in this sense that i welcome the ambitious vote today on the lucas report which provides for a whole series of measures to combat the environmental impacts of aviation, and in particular the end of the vat exemption on aviation fuel. the current situation is worrying: emissions from aviation are destroying a quarter of the poor results achieved in the fight against greenhouse gases. i want to be clear: it is not a question of taxing everything, but of putting an end to a distortion which does not provide sufficient incentives for the aviation sector to invest in new technologies, and whose first victim is our environment. global warming is the major challenge of the 21st century, europe must continue to lead by example!
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i have listened to you attentively. i also read in the news agencies that the commission had stated that the process of restructuring and relocation carried out by opel was considered normal and complied with the rules of the various european funds. i do think, and you have made your point quite clearly, that it is a little pointless for parliament and for some of our colleagues to repeat for months and months criticisms of global capitalism or total capitalism: we live in a world where competition is getting tougher and where the future of the automobile sector is probably more determined by renault-nissan-gm alliances as announced than by transactions we are talking about today. that said, if we are to have a role, i would like you to be able to answer four specific questions as a commissioner responsible for these matters in the commission: the first is that we have always advocated the idea of the european works council and industrial administration observatories to anticipate this type of change. in this parliament we wanted to strengthen the provisions of the european works council type. in this context, do you not think that the commission should take initiatives to strengthen this legislation? second question: the barroso commission has proposed an adjustment fund for globalisation-related restructuring. i do not know whether this is the case for opel, but what exactly is it? can you assure us that this fund will be used to help workers who have been penalised by this type of operation during a transitional period, so that they can rebuild their professional future through training measures? thirdly, you have rightly referred to the cars 21 programme, to the commission's attention to research and development programmes and to the cars of the future. if we consider - and i am not the first to do so - that the car is a sustainable development for the 21st century, especially for our european cities, it is nevertheless confusing to note that, given that the sustainable car for the next 25 years will have to have a hybrid engine, like the toyota prius, that european manufacturers are still lagging behind in this area. what is your assessment of the research and development programmes in this field and the marketing of this type of product? finally, fourth point: it is quite clear - and the example of opel is obviously shocking in this respect - that there is competition between neighbouring countries: portugal, spain. do you not think that, while respecting the rules of competition, it is the duty of the commission and the european union to impose common minimum rules on companies operating in the community, and i think that this would be a panacea for harmonizing corporate taxation? these are four types of action which the commission, as guardian of the treaties and promoter of the common european interest, should encourage. in this respect, i regret to say to you, commissioner, that we still find your commission too weak and too unambitious on the various points i have just mentioned.
i thank the commissioner for that. i wanted to speak on behalf of the many non-belgian citizens from the european union who have been living in belgium, sometimes for several decades, and who have made their working, professional and family life and who, indeed, in relation to the term "stay" - but you answered me that you find this shocking, because they are not "stay": they have chosen this country which is their host country, and this until the end of their lives. what may seem shocking is that when these citizens board a plane in belgium to travel to a country of the union, the document issued to them is not used as an identity card: they are asked for their passport.
i think that the time has come to take a step forward in this matter. it is something we have been working on for a long time and we are now close to an agreement which will enable us to achieve a high level of safety and fairer competition between airlines. the question now is whether the compromise on the table is a good compromise. we all know - and it has been said a number of times - that it is not ideal, but sometimes the best is the enemy of the good. but right now, we have to take what we can get, because there is a compromise on the table: no downward levelling, the demand for a cabin crew regime, the night flight regime for freight carriers, the results of the easa investigation as soon as possible, after 2 years instead of 3 years. now we must seize the opportunity to move forward in two steps. firstly, we must approve the compromise now and i am glad to hear what gilles savary has just said, namely that if the compromise is approved, we will not go any further. if we have accepted that compromise, we will have a european basis on which we can work, on which the commission can start working, but for everyone and not for certain member states which can afford to make higher demands. that's the first step. the second step is that once we have that european regulation, we will improve it and work on certain points to raise the level for everyone - and again, not for certain member states that can afford it. that's the way we have to work, in those two steps. if we miss that first step, if we don't compromise now, we can't move forward. i understand very well the criticisms and the questions raised by some people in certain categories of staff. it's in the interest of safety that they ask those questions. but i asked them: "would you rather have this than nothing?" and every time they would say, "no, no, we want something". i think the rapporteur has done everything possible to push all the boundaries as far as possible. the opportunity we now have to reach a compromise and to start with a european settlement is an opportunity we must seize in any case. if we reject that compromise, i am convinced, together with the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur, that we will be left with nothing and that we will be far from the goal we want to achieve. i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur and to the commissioner for the work he has done. i regret that the council does not want to go further on a number of points and that it is stuck in a kind of reasoning which i do not understand. but with the adoption of the compromise we have worked out, there is in any case no risk of ending up with no result and making the situation worse rather than better. so thanks to mr savary, thanks to all the other colleagues, i think we'll have a good result tomorrow.
the declarations of the finnish presidency, mr president, show the desire to restore, and i quote, 'the greatly diminished confidence of the citizens in the institutions of the european union'. that is, of course, a very commendable goal. it is only strange that this should be said by the finnish government, which is trying to get the finnish parliament to ratify the moribund european constitution, although that constitution has no legal and democratic political value after the referendums in france and the netherlands. so that is already a bad start for the restoration of confidence, but it is getting worse now that the finnish presidency announces that it would consider any breakdown in the accession negotiations with turkey, as i quote, "a personal failure". it is clear, however, that turkey is not a european country and never will be, geographically, politically, economically, historically, culturally and so on, and that the vast majority of european citizens do not want turkey to join. they want instead to restore and further develop the best of friendship and economic relations with our neighbour turkey. the fact that the finnish presidency is now mordicus and personally committed to promoting turkish accession is completely contrary to the rattling declarations about restoring confidence and respecting democratic opinions in europe. it is also a revelation of the european lie that the negotiations can still have an open outcome. the turkish accession is being pushed down our throats. so stop talking about democracy and respect for the opinion of the citizens.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens. if we look at the developments of the last few weeks, we too should be discouraged. because if we compare the current situation with what it was in january of this year, everything has only got worse. the weapons stockpiles held by hamas have been destroyed, there are more and more prisoners on both sides, violence against civilians has increased, gaza has become a prison for its inhabitants, the humanitarian situation is dramatic. yet, this is no time to let our arms drop. i would therefore like to begin by expressing on behalf of my group our full support both for the finnish presidency, for you, madam president, for your prime minister, for your colleague in the foreign affairs committee, and to congratulate you on the efforts already made and also for you, madam commissioner. if i may take the liberty of drawing the political lesson from your words, the most important thing to me is that you both said - and therefore agree - that the only way out is through negotiations and diplomacy. that seems to me to be a clear signal to those who are currently saying that they refuse to have any contact with the other party. we support you in this and, of course, we remain loyal to the principles of the quartet, the recognition of israel's right to exist, the refusal of violence by hamas, the respect for previous conventions. we also support your call for a step back and for restraint. you have our full support.
a dark flag is flying over the ongoing operation in gaza. the more we go, the darker the flag becomes. the summer rains that we are flooding gaza with are not only useless, they are first and foremost totally illegitimate. it is not legitimate to deprive 750,000 people of electricity, it is not legitimate to call 20,000 people to leave their homes to turn their city into a ghost town. it is not legitimate to enter syrian airspace. it is not legitimate to kidnap a quarter of a government and a quarter of a parliament. a state that takes such action is no different from a terrorist organization. those are not my words, they are those of a jew, mr. levy, in haaretz.com this week. when the voices of the just in israel were raised to denounce these crimes, why was the council silenced? its statement of 3 july is not as far-reaching as that of switzerland or turkey! the european union, which paid three million euros to observe the elections in palestine, is only belatedly reacting to the kidnapping of 64 members of the democratically elected government and legislative council, and is not even calling for their immediate release. the shelling of gaza, the destruction of a power plant, the water cuts do not cause the shields to rise. the accumulated deaths, the renewed cycle of violence, do not raise the one word that was expected: enough, enough, enough! stop this carnage, you've gone mad! yes, i condemn the firing of rockets at kassam, yes, i want the release of soldier gilad, but also the release of the 339 palestinian children held in israeli prisons. if a soldier is sacred, so are children. but above all, i am astonished that the european union has not yet welcomed - but it has welcomed today, thank you, commissioner - the historic step which was the agreement on the prisoners' document. six months after the elections, hamas and islamic jihad pledged to implicitly recognize israel and stop violence outside the territories. but not a word so far, a deafening silence! our humanitarian aid - and i support the commissioner - will put palestine on the pump. but do we still have the ambition to help the palestinian state build its democracy? i'll ask the council. stop this scandal and enforce international law! (applause from the left)
mr president, the time is critical, said commissioner ferreiro waldner, yes the israeli army is back in gaza, yes the humanitarian situation of the palestinians is dramatic, victims of the deadly impasse to which hamas has led them. and we are of course supporting the commissioner in the emergency aid she has announced. yes, the israeli response to depriving half of gaza's population of water and electricity is excessive. however, israel has no intention of reoccupying gaza. this major crisis could be over as soon as tomorrow if the terrorist movements released the captured young soldier and stopped firing rockets into israeli territory, as they did last night at a school in sderot. one question, a rather urgent concern, is that a sort of "iraqification" of the conflict is opening up in the region: kidnappings and executions of hostages, like that of 18-year-old eliyahu asheri, about whom almost no one speaks, shot in the head because he was hitchhiking in jerusalem. only a return to diplomacy will defeat this radicalisation and the extremists, the politics of the worst. france and egypt are today on the front lines of a solution which i believe is imminent for gilad shalit and the palestinian people. i would like to reassure my colleague mr davies by stressing here that for each of us in this house, a palestinian life is worth as much as an israeli life. i find this trial of intent to be completely unfair and unworthy. our dearest wish - which unfortunately is almost a litany - is for europe to act collectively on this issue to get back to the negotiating table.
in writing. today we are voting on a proposal for a decision on the strengthening of crossborder police cooperation at events involving large numbers of people from several member states, for example at major sporting events with an international dimension (football world cup, olympic games, cycling tours, etc.), but also at religious events, state visits, international political meetings or summits. experience has clearly shown that cooperation, trust, proper communication between the police services concerned, the availability of reliable information and good preparation were essential elements for the successful conduct of such events, especially with a view to prevention. the text takes account of each of these elements and provides very specific next steps. before the events: an annual planning of the expected needs. during events: cross-border cooperation and assistance between national police services. finally, after the events: an evaluation and, if necessary, proposals for adapting european legislation (in particular the schengen convention). at the time of the second semi-final of a world cup which has so far gone without major incident, we can only support this text with the hope that it will be as often as possible.
president, our ad hoc committee has failed to find any evidence that the cia has engaged in torture or related illegal activities in europe. we have not gone beyond suspicions, clues, and even insinuations. some of my colleagues on the left wanted to use the activities of the temporary committee to promote cheap anti-americanism. this biased report is an expression of that. the way in which the committee has operated so far also raises questions. witnesses were sometimes accompanied by lawyers who prevented difficult questions from being answered. it has happened many times that the vagueness of the persons involved has prevented us from having a clear picture of the facts of which they are accused or of their political background. other people who appeared before the committee, such as high representative javier solana, were so predictably unremarkable that their appearance was a waste of time for everyone. if the investigation is to be continued, it would be better if it were carried out by the national authorities which are competent to do so.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to address you today at this last plenary session before the summer recess. this is also our last meeting before the international aids conference in toronto in august. as you know, toronto will provide the commission with a leading forum to express its vision of the hiv/aids epidemic. the european commission is obviously still very concerned about the problem of hiv/aids. despite our efforts, the plague continues to spread around the world. it now affects tens of millions of people, infecting more and more girls and young women. the countries most affected are still the poorest countries in sub-saharan africa, where the prevalence rate is not decreasing and where the disease continues to undermine any prospects for human, social and economic development. in the face of this tragedy, the european commission is more determined than ever to give its full support to its partners in africa and elsewhere. our goal is to give them the tools to fight the pandemic, by effectively combining prevention, treatment and care, but beyond this combination, we remain convinced that hiv/aids cannot be treated in isolation. firstly, the fight against hiv/aids cannot be separated from the fight against other poverty-related diseases, including malaria and tuberculosis. secondly, hiv/aids brings to the forefront in a brutal way all the major development challenges: limited access to social services, widening inequalities - social and gender - poor governance and corruption, and persisting extremely low levels of economic and technological development. in short, the glaring deficit of the state in its essential royal functions. hiv/aids can only be successfully combated if the leaders of developing countries address all these issues simultaneously. this integrated approach to hiv/aids is the driving principle of community action, and it is also at the heart of a concerted approach with the member states, but also with our other partners in the international community. the main financial instrument used by the commission is the global fund to fight hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria, which devotes almost 57% of its resources to the fight against hiv/aids. we preferred the global fund because it is currently the fastest and most effective instrument for supporting the integrated approaches developed by the beneficiary countries. i think you know that the commission plays a key role in this fund, as it is the vice-president. since the global fund was set up at the end of 2001, the commission has contributed €522 million, or 11% of total contributions. if we take the member states of the european union into account, we are obviously by far the largest donor to the fund, with almost 60% of the fund's total. i must say that i was involved a few months ago in the replenishment of this fund in london, and i do not hide from you that we were a little disappointed at a certain lukewarmness, at any rate a certain reserve, in replenishing this fund. we're a long way from where we set out to be. so there is still a lot of work to be done to mobilise donors. so we are implementing a series of instruments, projects and financial support programmes, in which general budget support has a privileged place. this approach is in line with our priority of making our partners owners of their own policies and thus their own destiny. in this spirit, the commission has committed almost €2.4 billion since 2002 to the general budget for africa alone, where the impact of hiv/aids is by far the most severe. we are of course in continuous political dialogue with our partners on the use of these funds. this dialogue also aims to encourage them to implement an integrated approach - including the inclusion of human rights and good governance issues. i am also thinking of gender equality, discrimination and violence against women, and the issue of girls' access to education. in addition to these efforts through the global fund and bilateral action, the commission is actively involved in international forums dealing with poverty-related diseases - i am thinking in particular of the world trade organisation, the united nations general assembly special session on hiv/aids, the g8, and conferences such as the one in toronto. the commission has played a key role in ensuring that the european union speaks with one voice in these bodies on this issue. in addition, the commission has also been engaged for several years in a dialogue with the pharmaceutical industry to advocate the provision of low-cost medicines for developing countries. this dialogue has borne fruit: the introduction of a tiered pricing mechanism has reduced the price of certain medicines by 95%. this system allows developing countries to pay a price that is commensurate with their means, while protecting the companies that produce these drugs from having to reimport their products into the highly lucrative markets of developed countries. in 1999, a full course of antiviral treatment for hiv cost $10,000, today it costs $200. we are ourselves research actors, working with industry and research centres in the member states, and our efforts are particularly focused on microbicides and vaccines. we have also launched a partnership bringing together member states' research programmes to speed up clinical trials and thus ensure faster market access for medicines. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must take the fight against hiv/aids further, to make prevention and treatment available to all those who need it by 2010. in this respect, we are following very closely the implementation by some member states of innovative financing mechanisms, in particular the air ticket tax. we also welcome the growing contributions of private foundations, such as the bill gates foundation, to the fight against hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria. this creativity in solutions and the growing involvement of the private sector give me hope. they reflect the growing awareness of the scourge of hiv/aids and the need to respond to it in a proactive manner to safeguard our common future. we must not let our guard down, we must continue our efforts without letup. we can achieve the ultimate goal of providing care to all who need it, and seeing future generations grow up without the fear of aids. i look forward to continuing to work with the european parliament to make this a reality. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the pse group thank you, mr president, and thank you, mr commissioner, for being here at this somewhat hallucinatory night session with the few of us who are involved in this debate. i hope you have enjoyed a very interesting match between france and portugal. i also thank you for your statement, commissioner. the socialist group was relieved when the un high level meeting on hiv/aids held in new york recently stated that a huge catch-up movement is needed to achieve the goal of universal access to hiv prevention, treatment and care for all people. it is true that progress has been made, but the un aids report, from which my colleague john bowis has just quoted some examples, clearly shows that there must be an acceleration in our action. my group was therefore disappointed that the political declaration made contained so few concrete commitments. that is why this debate and the meeting in toronto are so important. in toronto the international community must prove that it is serious about its commitments and not only political declarations but also financial commitments must be made. in toronto, the countries concerned must also be able to make clear their commitment to a global and coherent policy on hiv/aids. the european union must therefore also make a contribution and contribute. i would like to hear from you four specific things, commitments in fact, that the pse group would like to have on the agenda in toronto. firstly, we think that the 6% for human and social development in the new development cooperation instrument is a little too low. we would very much like to see this percentage increased. secondly, we believe that at least 50% of official development cooperation should be allocated to the millennium development goals, of which the hiv-aids objective is very important. thirdly, we think it is only right that the european union should commit itself to at least maintaining its contribution to the global fund and, in fact, to increasing it. fourthly, we would very much welcome the commission's support for developing countries which are committed to giving priority to the fight against hiv/aids and to basic health care. as the un aids report says, we know what needs to be done to stop aids. what we need now is the political will and also the financial means to do it.
i have already pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, in the committee on development and cooperation, what i find most disappointing about this report. i would also like to say the same thing in the debate in the hemisphere. nowhere is there any mention of the vague social consequences of migration for the eu countries, which are already struggling with problems of ghettoisation, crime, uprooting and islamism. i would have expected a french rapporteur to give some thought to this after the experience of the french suburbs in the autumn of last year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. that's too human. but michel rocard, the former chairman of the committee on development cooperation in this parliament, was right when he once said as a socialist prime minister of france and as a member of the same party as the rapporteur: "france cannot absorb the misery of the whole world". europe cannot absorb the misery of the whole world. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. because they're left even poorer. and fun but unrealistic ideas like brain mobility and circular migration are not going to change that. more immigration into our countries will therefore mean more misery in the developing countries, contrary to what this report suggests. europe needs an absolute stop to immigration. the developing countries need effective aid on the ground.
i have already asked commissioner frattini some questions in the past on the mutual information file on asylum and immigration, because i wonder what the real added value of this system is in the fight against illegal immigration. i'm not saying it's a bad thing, but i think it's a patch on a wooden leg. the real problem is that the regularization policies of italy, spain and belgium have led to an influx of hundreds of thousands of new economic success seekers, who are spreading across europe without any problems because of our open borders policy. if the european union really intends to tackle the problem of illegal immigration, it must start at the beginning. the only way to counteract the suction effect of this policy is, of course, to reject the nefarious regularizations outright, followed immediately by a consistent return policy for all illegal and criminal aliens.
i voted against the fava report because it is a typical example of left-wing bias. the decisions of the temporary committee were already decided in advance. just needed to find some evidence. well, there's been no evidence of torture or other illegal cia activity in the european union. in this report, therefore, suspicions and indications are systematically presented as facts. it's intellectually dishonest. it does represent a certain mentality which is present in the european parliament. it is fair to say that some members do not want to see terrorism dealt with.
in writing. we voted for the epp resolution and rejected the joint resolution on the swift case as a whole because of the imbalance, which cannot be remedied by amendments. we all know how difficult it is to draw the line between the vital priorities of the fight against terrorism and the equally fundamental respect for our individual freedoms. the debate is fuelled by the successive detours of the conditions of detention in guantanamo, the case of the secret cia flights, the detention centers in europe... and now this swift case. so it's a delicate border, but a debate of vital importance in a world where terrorism now knows no borders. an investigation is underway in belgium to determine any possible violation of our data protection laws. we do not think that this vindictive resolution - if not downright anti-american in form, angelic in substance (4 and 13: a summit! the secret services should announce their operations publicly!) and often illegible - improves our image with the europeans. there were other ways to express our concern to shed light on a possible offence, while recalling our visceral commitment to the fight against those whose ideology undermines our values.
president. - although the lambrinidis report states that integration is in principle a two-way process, i see little or nothing of that in the text that has been adopted. - no, it's the opposite. it was the same old song of many rights and few duties. the european member states are again called upon to work towards positive discrimination against immigrants. this means that the indigenous people are being marginalised or discriminated against. the immigrants must also be granted all political rights without even questioning the willingness of the people to integrate. it even refers to the view that certain cultural and religious customs of foreigners should not be a barrier to the enjoyment of rights or to being declared integrated into society. we all know very well that what is called the so-called cultural and religious customs of islam - for that is what it is all about - is in fact completely contrary to the achievements and rights of our european democracies. for these reasons and many more, i have of course not approved the report before us.
i voted against the lambrinidis report because it does not solve the problems. on the contrary, it is itself part of the problem. the fact that the 40 million foreigners in the european union can be considered a 26th member state is, in fact, a sufficient argument. for the umpteenth time, the voters in europe are being blamed and there is a veiled plea for yet another restriction on the right to free expression. the report calls for the introduction of the right of foreigners to vote and for positive discrimination, in other words discrimination against europeans in favour of foreigners. not only does the practice show that such unconventional measures do not work, but there is no democratic support for them. such a report is yet another example of the democratic deficit in europe and of european meddling which only diminishes the confidence of europeans in the european union.
in writing. immigration is too serious a subject to be left to polling institutes alone or to be reduced to a major issue in national elections. immigration is a reality: more than 40 million people live in the european union, and it seems that the european union is having a hard time coordinating its actions. it must quickly develop a coherent and effective immigration policy. the finnish presidency intends to take this thorny issue forward by breaking the lock of unanimity in the council of ministers, which is sclerosing any progress in the crucial area of judicial and police cooperation to combat human trafficking and illegal immigration. i sincerely hope that this scandinavian desire will soon be put into practice: the establishment of a common humanist policy on asylum or cooperation between the twenty-five in the allocation of quotas by state. another challenge is the integration of immigrants. as the lambrinidis report points out, there is still considerable progress to be made in the europe of 25 to achieve this integration, mainly in terms of access to employment, non-discrimination, women's education, language programmes, political participation. winning this bet is a step towards social peace!
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, at the risk of repeating what others have said before me, i would also like, on behalf of my group, to stress the importance of what is happening in mauritania and to recall that, since the coup d'état, which many have mentioned here, parliament has never looked at the situation in this country, which is a bit abandoned by everyone. i therefore think that this resolution is timely, given that a major process of democratization has just begun there. what must be emphasized today, with this resolution, is the willingness of the european union, and of our parliament in particular, to be attentive to the situation in mauritania and its development, and to contribute, as much as we can, to the establishment and continuation of the democratization process, since, indeed, the constitutional referendum was held on 25 june. there is still, of course, a certain amount of work to be done on the mauritanian side. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the voting rights of the citizens of the community are respected. parliament also has to support a request from the mauritanian authorities for the commission to send an election observation mission to mauritania for the forthcoming elections: the parliamentary and municipal elections in november and the presidential elections in march. i think this is important and that parliament and the commission must take the necessary initiatives in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to speak to you about the situation in slovakia. it is not recalled that the smer, following its electoral victory, formed a government coalition with the far-right party of the sns. in early august, this red-brown coalition won the confidence of the slovak parliament. in july i had the opportunity to express my concern and disapproval, shared by many colleagues, of this coalition. but prime minister robert fico has not responded to our request to reconsider the relevance of such a coalition. unfortunately, recent events have shown that such concerns are well founded. recently, members of the hungarian minority have been the victims of violence for speaking hungarian. in addition, sns leader jan slota continued his xenophobic and nationalist speeches. robert fico, by accepting this coalition, left the door open to such excesses. from word to deed, there's only one step. a politician must be responsible. allying with extremists who hold such views would inevitably have dire consequences. the violence we are witnessing today is a painful reminder of the darkest pages of our pre-war european history.
mr president, i am a little puzzled. we are in the middle of the belgian municipal elections and i see that some commissioners are actively involved in this campaign. i know that in the previous parliament the commissioners had a duty to reserve. i do not know whether the duty to reserve is still in force or whether there is a regulation on the subject, and i do not know whether i should be indignant at these practices.
president, ladies and gentlemen, like all the observers, i was very impressed by the high turnout, the discipline and the excellent organization, a real piece of work in a country with a poor infrastructure and poor communications like the congo. the euphoria of the moment must not blind us to certain less hopeful observations and disturbing developments. firstly, the costly and disproportionate election campaign of a few tenors, while the other candidates did not even have the minimum minimum. the massive misuse of public funds led to a very limited level playing field. only those with money and a private militia could and were allowed to play, raising the question of where all that money suddenly came from. secondly, the outright negative campaign from a certain opposition angle, which excluded itself. the nationalist, patriotic discourse of these people degenerated into almost genocidal language, which was unfortunately adopted by other candidates. the european union has also been criticized for its lack of political will and for its lack of political will to act. this blame intoxicated even politicians, who, like tintin, suddenly discovered congo. a reproach that neither side can touch: the truth is that without the unremitting efforts of commissioner michel, there might never have been an election in the congo. finally, there is the painful observation that the democratization process in the congo remains very fragile. the events of 20 august leave a bitter aftertaste and also the fear that a long campaign that has torn the country between east and west will not lead to the hoped-for stability. fortunately, the congolese people have not responded to the provocations. it craves peace, it deserves better.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: more and more observers seem to be assuming it. the commission has not taken any further steps, particularly since hong kong nine months ago, and in july the negotiations were postponed until stuttgart. but like the commissioner, like most of my colleagues here, i refuse to believe that this is the beginning of the end. after all, there is a lot at stake. failure to do so could lead to the collapse of the multilateral trading system with all its consequences. the absence of a global trade agreement increases the risk that more and more countries will resort to bilateral or regional agreements, which will in any case weaken the position of poor countries. the breakdown of negotiations could also increase trade disputes, with wto members trying to achieve through a procedural layer what they failed to achieve through an agreement. but there is more, and the commissioner has pointed out: the wto itself is in danger of being called into question sooner or later. the strengthening of the wto's transparency and democratic legitimacy is therefore more important than ever. it is essential for our group that rich and more developed countries try to reconcile their positions in advance. there is no point in holding another high mass if the us and the eu do not close the gap between them in their agricultural and other offers. the us congress recently applauded the stubborn attitude of us negotiators. such a blame game does not contribute to constructive solutions. all the main players, including the eu, the us and the g20, must make efforts to achieve results. in the meantime, the so-called hong kong acquis must be maintained in its entirety. all pro-development commitments must be respected. whether there is an agreement or not, the eu must not back down on its intention to end export subsidies by 2015. at the same time, all developed countries and advanced developing countries should be invited to follow the eu's 'everything but arms' initiative. the tone of the compromise resolution before us, mr president, is voluntarist and positive. it is a reaffirmation of our belief in a multilateral approach to trade policy in spite of everything, based on the honest conviction that, unfortunately, there are only losers in the failure of the dda.
in writing. parliament rightly reiterates today that multilingualism is an expression of the cultural and linguistic diversity of the union, which must be preserved. parliament rightly states that citizens have the right to communicate with the european institutions in all the official languages of the union. parliament stressed once again that elected representatives have the right to speak their own language at all official ep meetings. the fact is that knowledge of languages can never be an additional condition for election. i pay tribute to the many hundreds of interpreters who provide us with a brilliant and high-quality interpretation day after day. the fact that all this costs money is a normal price for the functioning of european democracy. i agree with the proposals to save where possible by discouraging very late cancellations and applications. the fact that the average cost of interpreting in the ep is higher than in the council or the commission is also explained by our forced monthly move to strasbourg, where very few local interpreters can be used, so that the cost of interpreting in the ep in strasbourg increases by 13%. so saving can also be stopped by this senseless monthly move.
in writing. daphne, a nice name for the european programme to combat violence against women and children. the programme, which is celebrating its tenth anniversary, is making good progress, with more than 350 projects financed, mainly by ngos active in this sector. violence against women is a scourge without a name. it is a matter of concern that in 2006 adult women still appear in the category of "vulnerable persons". worldwide, one in three women is estimated to have been a victim of one of the many forms of violence. to combat this barbarity, several weapons are needed: a draconian legislative arsenal, zero tolerance, listening to the victims and awareness campaigns. children are also affected. the very appearance of the pnvd, a dutch political party which campaigns for child pornography and adult-child sex, shows the flaws in our system and says a lot about the reforms that need to be carried out. in ten years, daphne's budget has increased fivefold to $25 million a year. i believe that this is still not enough to combat this form of violence, which is too often trivialised and which affects the most vulnerable: women and children.
in writing. the present proposal to strengthen the daphne programme for the period 2007-13 deserves our full support. in my own country, we have been confronted on several occasions in recent years with unacceptable physical, sexual and psychological violence against children, young people and women. the recent murder of two innocent young children in liège makes us shudder at these perfidious acts. organisations such as child focus, the european federation for missing and sexually exploited children, the european network of children's ombudsmen (enoc) and the many national and operational ngos are doing a great job. authors like chris de stoop showed us the raw reality of human trafficking and forced prostitution. despite the efforts made, there is still a lot of work to be done. it is also becoming increasingly clear that more attention will have to be paid to the situation of street children, who are not only victims of drug and human traffickers but also suffer from violence and sexual abuse. the daphne programme is therefore ensuring that europe is not a bed-and-breakfast, but offers concrete help to the most vulnerable in our society. we must all continue to fight against those who immorally exploit, humiliate and even kill the weakest of the weak. human dignity is above all else.
member of the commission. the birds directive generally prohibits spring hunting. it allows this only under certain conditions, the main one being that there are no satisfactory alternatives. so far, several member states which have applied for such derogations have not been able to demonstrate that there are no satisfactory solutions for hunting, for example in the autumn season. the reason hunting is prohibited in the spring is because wild birds migrate to breeding grounds. they are birds that have survived the winter and many other hardships and are going to the places where they breed their kind. it is therefore a major reason why hunting of wild birds is not allowed at this time. in particular, as regards malta: we have already requested, in the autumn of 2004, data from the maltese government on birds hunted in the 2004 period. the maltese authorities have sent us the relevant data for the 2004 spring hunting season. from this information, which the commission has carefully assessed by examining whether the justification for the derogation, namely that there is no satisfactory solution for hunting in other seasons, is indeed present, we have concluded that there are no such conditions. therefore, given that there is a significant number of watermelons and eggs in the autumn period, which is not far from the number of birds hunted in the spring period, and in accordance with the judgments of the european court of justice, we conclude that there is a satisfactory solution and therefore the derogation is not allowed. the commission, therefore, following this finding, in july 2006 initiated legal proceedings against malta for infringement of the birds directive by allowing the spring hunting of these two species. i should like to say that similar infringement proceedings have been brought against other member states on the basis of the derogation sought, for which the necessary conditions were not met, and that there have been convictions, such as recently in spain and finland, precisely for this reason.
member of the commission. i know that there is doubt about the data submitted to us by the maltese authorities, but even with these data, we have concluded that there is no reason for a derogation from the ban on spring hunting and we have started infringement procedures against malta. what more can we do? we want to show everybody that we are very serious about applying and enforcing the birds directive, which includes that provision. otherwise, if we give different signals, many other countries would think that we have watered down the provisions of the birds directive and might also ask for a derogation. so we have started the infringement procedures and we shall see whether the maltese authorities will comply and ban hunting during the spring period.
president, commissioner, we are talking about 2004, but i read in the maltese press that there was also a lot of hunting of migratory birds in the spring of 2005 and the spring of 2006 and that quite a few birds were shot. can you tell me whether the maltese authorities have already sent the commission an exceptional report on that spring 2005 hunt, as they are required to do? i think this was supposed to happen by june of this year. if so, can you tell us what the report says, roughly, what the reasons for the exception are? if not, when do you expect the report?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission shares the grave concerns expressed by mr cornillet, and my assessment of the profoundly criminal nature of these forgeries is the same. the question rightly raises three areas of concern: firstly, the fight against counterfeit medicines within the european union. the commission is working on two levels. we have, of course, first strengthened legal protection. in 2004, new legislation on intellectual property protection was adopted, and in 2003 and 2004 new legislation on the treatment of goods suspected of infringing intellectual property rights by customs authorities. two proposals concerning criminal measures to enforce intellectual property rights are currently under discussion. a recent investigation in the community has revealed that in the last five years, 27 counterfeit medicines have appeared in legal distribution channels and 170 counterfeit medicines in illegal distribution channels within the european union. on the basis of this information, member states are currently developing measures to combat such counterfeiting. the commission, for its part, is examining, together with the member states, the european medicines agency and international partners, the future measures needed to protect public health. it is a question of enforcing existing legislation, of cooperation between the various bodies, of communication and awareness-raising. i do not rule out the possibility that the law in force needs to be developed further and that we need to talk about changes. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission's recently published communication on a customs response to recent developments in counterfeiting and piracy of products addresses the problem of counterfeit medicines and recommends concrete measures to counter this growing threat. the experience of customs authorities has shown that a large proportion of counterfeits are transported in transit through the eu and are often destined for developing countries. the fight against imported counterfeits is particularly difficult because they often enter the european union in small quantities and customs have to detect the illegal goods in a very large number of small consignments. the commission encourages rightholders to make full use of the protection granted by council regulation (ec) no 1383/2003. when rightholders request that customs take action, they provide the customs authorities with the information they need to target the highest risk consignments. the second complex of issues concerns the question: what are we doing for the poorer countries, which are indeed the main victims of these falsified medicines? what are we doing to help them regulate and monitor the quality of medicines in their own territory? we are naturally committed to working at multilateral level. the commission therefore supports the initiatives of the world health organization to combat counterfeit medicines. the who conference in rome in february 2006 provided a platform for concrete action. the commission is supporting the establishment of a who task force on the international fight against falsified medicines. the results of the work of this task force will benefit all who members, including developing countries. the commission will actively participate in this task force and provide the necessary information. the commission also implements projects funded by the european development fund, in particular the ec-who partnership on pharmaceutical policy. the aim of this partnership is to enable acp countries to make their legislation and quality assurance systems for medicinal products more effective and to improve, inter alia, their controls, their action against defective or falsified medicinal products and their information management. eur 2.3 million has been allocated to this. the third question is the idea of an international convention to combat the counterfeiting of medicines. the idea of an international convention to combat falsification of medicines was discussed at length in the run-up to the who conference in february 2006 and at the conference itself. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers from the risks of counterfeiting. the task force set up at the conference is better able to gather and share information and to develop the urgently needed solutions. in conclusion, let me reassure you that the commission shares parliament's concerns and is ready to respond to suggestions and take further initiatives.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank my colleague, mr thierry cornillet, for having opened this essential debate. we all agree that pirated drugs - i completely agree with what he said - are a killer scourge, especially, of course, in the least developed countries. this potentially lethal counterfeit is, unfortunately, little known, and almost silent in most cases. this is far from the spectacular and media-oriented actions which are being carried out, and which have also been mentioned in some cases, by the manufacturers of luxury goods and which - it should also be noted - have led to mediocre results. antibiotics, the pill, steroids, baby powder, anti-malarials - we've already talked about them - vaccines - a fake tamiflu, for example - viagra too, the fake drug industry copies everything and immorally, because it does it without the knowledge of the consumer. thierry cornillet has cited a whole series of encouraging figures. i had noted the 25 billion euros a year that this trade represents. one in three antibiotics and one in ten medicines worldwide are fake. beyond these damaging figures, of course, for the economy, the issue here is the disastrous impact of this counterfeiting in terms of health. at best, these fakes are inactive, at worst, as i said, they kill, especially when it comes to drugs used in the treatment of deadly diseases like malaria, tuberculosis or aids. in china alone, the hub and empire of all sorts of counterfeiting, 200,000 people would die every year after being treated with counterfeit medicines, including in some hospitals that are run by the chinese red cross. these are the findings that can be made. the causes are known, at least in part. thierry cornillet has spoken at length about them: the lack, until recently, of real will on the part of national governments to combat this scourge, the absence of legislation in many countries to act as a real deterrent, the ridiculous cost of these counterfeits and, above all, the poverty in the countries concerned, the inability of the most vulnerable populations to access health systems, their desperate need for affordable medicines. in a debate like this, no one claims to have the solution or a ready-made solution, but it is necessary to propose a responsible policy in the face of this emergency. in april, when he spoke to this house about all forms of counterfeiting, commissioner frattini raised the issue of sanctions against europeans and developing countries. the european union must play a leading role, in close cooperation with the who, and put in place a comprehensive strategy to combat this scourge effectively. we must establish judicial and police coordination and, of course, provide for sanctions, but also for information and, above all, for prevention. the challenge today is to make essential, good quality medicines available to all the population in the countries concerned.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has indeed become a very balanced report. it is not for nothing that it was almost unanimously supported by my colleagues in the committee on the environment, i might say, and we hope that this report, which will be supported by an overwhelming majority in this parliament tomorrow, will put the necessary pressure on the commission to take the necessary initiatives in accordance with its powers, because it is clear that there is still much to be improved in the area of mental health care in the european union. patients are lacking in participation. the various health care organisations are still not working together sufficiently and the sector is facing serious financial shortfalls. the added value of eu policy, which we must also pursue, lies above all in promoting exchanges and cooperation between member states. we must above all be able to improve the coherence of the various and different measures at member state level, both national and regional. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's green paper has not only triggered a debate here in parliament. the national and regional governments were also made aware of the need to increase their resources. when the national health survey in my country, flanders, showed that one in five flemings had psychological problems and one in eight even serious problems, the flemish minister for welfare immediately decided to significantly strengthen the mental health centres, especially for the target groups with the greatest need, especially children and young people. patient organizations were also stirred. for example, representatives of adhd europe asked for specific attention to be paid to the living situation of adhd patients, since the green paper originally made no mention of this developmental disorder in children, which, if left untreated, can cause so much damage and suffering, not only to the patient himself, but also in the form of burdens and costs for the health care, education and economic systems. i am therefore very pleased that our rapporteur was willing to approve some important additions to this. and thank you to the other members for your support. i now hope that on this basis the commission will be able to come forward with a proposal for an eu mental health strategy later this year. i wish the commissioner every success in that.
president, minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in april, when the european parliament gave its discharge for the 2004 budget, it made two very explicit statements concerning the european agency for the reconstruction of the former yugoslavia and kosovo. the european parliament has expressly stated, and i quote: 'the agency's decommissioning should not be based on a pre-established timetable but should depend on economic and political conditions and developments'. the commission has now decided to dismantle the agency in question and to transfer its tasks to the delegations. five months after parliament's resolution, five months after parliament's explicit statements, the commission is therefore not concerned with these statements. commissioner rehn, why are you ignoring this parliament's opinion? why do you choose to let that expertise that exists in the agency just melt like snow in the sun? why not choose to use the people who are now working for the agency in pristina as a first core of eu people who will be able to monitor kosovo's independence really closely and with a lot of expertise and know-how? that's my question to you.
the stabilisation and association agreement with albania was concluded in june. in theory, this means a first step towards joining the european union. the country has suffered for many years under the most backward and dictatorial form of communism. so it is a positive thing in itself that albania is being accepted into the great european family. however, there are other instruments for this than membership of the european union, and i am thinking in particular of the european neighbourhood policy. albania is facing enormous problems. economic problems, of course, i would point out, for example, that no less than 60% of the working population is employed in the agricultural sector. there is the problem of organized crime, human trafficking, drug trafficking. there is the problem of the existence of al qaeda cells in albania. in a predominantly islamic country like albania, we also see unacceptable practices as revenge of honor. we have rightly been talking more and more recently about the european union's absorption capacity. well, there is certainly no support at the moment for the accession of a country like albania, not even in 15 or 20 years' time. we must not create expectations in the minds of the albanians which we as the european union cannot meet. the most recent eurobarometer surveys show that public opposition to possible albanian accession is about as strong as opposition to turkish accession. it will not be the first time that public opinion in europe has shown more common sense than the political leaders.
president, corruption, 19th century mafia practices, islamism... i'm not sure what you're talking about. today, albania is still reeling from 50 years of stalinist dictatorship. the country is in no way ready to join the european union, even though, unlike turkey, for example, it is of course historically part of the european community of civilization. however, a good neighbourhood policy should be sufficient to cultivate this historic european bond. the neighbourhood policy must also be sufficient to deal with the enormous problems facing the country, which preclude any prospect of eu accession. so let us not create false hopes among the albanians. i therefore voted against this resolution on the stabilisation and association agreement with albania, because this agreement is a first step, let us have no illusions about it, towards albania's accession and europe here, as in the case of turkey, is ignoring the opinion of its people.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr president-in-office, we have seen this summer a tragic scenario which ended in a bloodbath. over 1,000 lebanese killed, mostly civilians, a million displaced, a country totally destroyed, infrastructure in ruins, a polluted sea, poisoned agriculture and probably banned weapons that continue to kill today. a disaster for lebanon and many injuries for israel, where the damage, fortunately, was less. and in the midst of this tragedy, a scandal: the un, paralyzed by the united states, unable to get an immediate ceasefire, because israel had to be given time to finish the work on the ground. the words have been transposed. a massacre of civilians is now called "disproportionate and indiscriminate retaliation". to invade a country is to "reject a militia". cleaning up a resistance movement is like "searching for a kidnapped soldier", but no one is fooled. war was brewing. we let it hatch. it was planned. it involved, yes, multiple actors, like syria and iran, but also, unfortunately, through israel, which is the victim, the united states, which is still experimenting with their disastrous concept of constructive imbalance to redesign the middle east. this concept, which failed in iraq, has been applied once again and shows its limits. here, the conflict has deep roots. they are in palestine, still under occupation, still waiting for a state in which half the democratically elected government and legislature are in prison. we need a ceasefire here too, and we need a force to intervene here too. and while the lebanese were almost dying on camera, 250 palestinians were dying very quietly under occupation. nothing will be solved in the middle east unless a solution is found to this conflict with the support of the entire international community, including the arab countries, including the palestinians, including, of course, israel and the united states. i thank france, i thank italy for bringing this up, and i thank the finnish presidency for raising the european flag, opening up this project and opening negotiations with all the actors, including syria. we call for an international conference on peace. it is the european answer to the american concept of destruction and constructive imbalance, and it is the only possible solution. we're relieved today, but the page is turned. europe will certainly contribute to the reconstruction of lebanon, but i have defended in my group, mr gollnisch, what you want, namely the concept of the destroyer-pays, not because we have to go to the cash register, but because it is a concept of justice and responsibility and that without justice and without taking responsibility there will be no peace in the middle east. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, each of the civilian victims of this war is a tragedy, in lebanon as in israel, and it is our solidarity with those who suffer that i wish to express here at the outset. today, this solidarity is one of our main concerns, as is the return to the political process - as has been said - and the road map, but also the release of israeli soldiers, support for the democratization of lebanon, whose history, traditions and culture have nothing to do with the terrorist ideology of hezbollah, the lifting of the blockade on lebanon provided that an arms embargo is imposed and, as a key issue, the disarmament of hezbollah. i would like to reply in a friendly way to dany cohn-bendit, who asked us earlier, who was concerned about these questions a year ago? we, mr cohn-bendit, myself and other colleagues, discussed the 1559 in march 2005. we, the european parliament, in plenary, have discussed and voted - i quote from memory because i no longer have the note here - 'the irrefutable evidence of terrorist acts'. we have called for and voted for the disarmament of hezbollah and have also asked the council to act in this direction. we did it. i am reminded of this and i can hear those who today are speaking to this house about the need to start a dialogue and to resort to diplomacy again, but i ask the question: how can we get resolutions 1559 and 1701 respected by sheikh nasrallah, who on several occasions, just yesterday morning in the lebanese press, rejected all calls for disarmament? i would like to return to what the commissioner said, namely that europe is more than ever at a crossroads to find new ways and to avoid a repetition of the mistakes of the past, which would prove to be absolutely tragic.
it will not surprise you, mr president, that the answer to this question, which i put at the beginning of july, immediately after the summit between the european union and the united states in vienna, is somewhat disappointing to me, because the question does indeed relate to one of the subjects discussed at that summit. i would therefore particularly like to know whether any progress has been made and whether the council intends to urge the united states to make clear quickly how many european citizens will be tried in the european union and whether the council is also prepared to insist on a concrete timetable for this issue.
mr president, i was afraid that no one else would be in favour; so let me do that. i believe that we are approaching this request in a very constructive spirit. i would like to say that in the field of human rights, and whatever the outcome of the vote that follows, we will of course support all the amendments in favour of human rights. so these are not even on the agenda today. what we would like to remedy - and this is what mrs dobolyi wanted to stress - is the fact that there are still factual errors, shortcomings and deficiencies. and we would like to re-establish a little closer relations with the rapporteur; that's all i'm saying.
president, commissioner, rapporteur, as chairman of the parliament's delegation for china, i have a bit of a mixed feeling about this report. the rapporteur has worked very hard, there are many good things in the report which parliament says or repeats, but what i find too little of is an assessment, a critical and constructive assessment of what the commission is already doing in china at the moment. how critical are we of some of the things the commission is doing there? it has a very large delegation there, i think second only to that for relations with the united states. what are we encouraging the commission to do? for example, is there sufficient cooperation between china and the commission in the field of regional policy, the development of the regions in china which have been left behind? we can learn a number of things from that. are we working together enough on this and can we not ask the chinese government, for example, to be a little more open about this issue? i miss that kind of thing. all the activities already carried out by the commission are not sufficiently scrutinised and are not approached in a critical and/or constructive way. what are the suggestions we are making for the helsinki summit? i can't seem to find it, so that's why i'm feeling double-minded. i'm glad you're not avoiding the problems. my colleagues have already pointed this out, and i will not go on: human rights, trade union rights, free speech and so on. i am not so happy about the fact that you are calling for an eu-us consensus on china policy. i would be very unhappy about that, and we have tabled amendments to that with our group, because there are differences between us, the european union and the united states, as regards the approach to china. there are also different interests. let us not ask for a consensus with the united states. i think it would severely limit our policy. besides, china is not just any country. we can pretend that the chinese only need us, but let's not kid ourselves: we also need the chinese, economically, strategically. and let us not be under any illusions, madam commissioner. i would venture to say that the one-china policy is a cornerstone of the stability we want throughout asia and that it is also a cornerstone and a basic point in the european union's policy towards china. i do not find much of that in this report, we have all kinds of illusions about that, but we as a parliament must also confirm the one-china policy, because it is important for stability. china needs us, for example, when it comes to the environment. i think the country can take a lot of suggestions from us. the same applies to energy. as regards the conditions for the partnership, mr president, it must be said that every day a minister, a commissioner from a region or a country goes to china to talk about that strategic partnership. so let us not pretend that it does not exist and that we can just set conditions.
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i should like to express my thanks to the rapporteur mrs fraga estévez and the committee on fisheries and to mrs ries and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for a constructive report on a community approach to eco-labelling for fisheries products. i am pleased at the high degree of interest they have shown in the commission’s communication. in fact, the report is a fitting and valuable contribution to the debate on eco-labelling. it contains many elements and ideas that are helpful to strengthen further the debate. the commission indeed attaches great importance to the development of a consistent policy on eco-labelling and to a consistent integration of environmental concerns into the common fisheries policy. together with other actions proposed by the commission, such as the implementation of sustainability which leads to sustainable yields, or the promotion of more environment-friendly fishing methods, i see eco-labelling as a complementary tool for a more environment-friendly fisheries policy. at the same time it satisfies the interests of both consumers and the industry. i would like to thank mr morillon for his description of eco-labelling as a positive sanction supporting sustainable behaviour. eco-labelling is a relatively new approach in the context of sustainable fisheries management. it is based on a voluntary and participative approach, through which fishermen will in future, within the limits of the standards set by legislation, define requirements and implement them. such a voluntary approach has been adopted in other fields, particularly in that of food safety with the enforcing of the haccp system, and has proved highly successful. i thank you for lending your support to that approach. i am happy to see that the commission and parliament share the same views on the overall objectives of eco-labelling schemes, on the principles and features that credible schemes should contain, and on the need to address properly a complex and currently rather anarchic reality. traceability, transparency, a sound scientific basis, and third-party certification are essential. i see these as the prerequisites that will help us make the most of eco-labelling schemes and that will contribute to the sustainability of fisheries. in the commission we opted for launching a debate on the right approach rather than proposing operational provisions at too early a stage. i understand that many of you feel that the commission should have been more assertive. however, i am convinced that it was wise to proceed as we did. due to the originality of the approach, the ambitious objective we have and the controversy that issues like these invariably raise, it would have been premature to bring forward an operational proposal as early as june last year. i assure you that our choice to launch a debate first has proven to be successful. it has facilitated and accelerated the exchange of views and relevant experience between all sides concerned. as a result we now have a sound and almost complete picture of the situation, on which we can base further community action. the active participation of the community in the fao debate has given us an early advantage, and by launching the debate and participating in fruitful exchanges of views we have strengthened our leading position in this matter. the definition of the notion of sustainability is at the heart of the debate. many of the parties involved have inquired about relevant criteria. to follow up on this, dg fisheries has set up a group of independent experts to work on that very issue. the expert group is on the point of concluding its work. based on that work the commission will draft guidelines for the setting-up of eco-labelling schemes and will propose a list of minimum requirements against which private eco-labelling schemes could be assessed. i have taken note of the resolution’s request for a communication to be addressed to the council and to parliament within the next six months. i have no difficulty in reverting to parliament. however, at this point in time, the shape and form of the commission’s proposals have still to be determined. looking at the broader picture, i believe it would be more appropriate to come back to parliament once the whole consultation exercise has been concluded. that would allow us to carry out a thorough assessment of the following discussions and consultations: a second shareholder consultation, to be held before the end of this year, which would be an opportunity to gather views on the future guidelines; further discussions in the council in the months to come, which will conclude the current discussion phase; and, additionally, the report from the expert group, which will form the basis for the preparation of operational provisions that could be tabled during the course of next year. all this will give us a further opportunity to discuss the future community approach towards eco-labelling on a consolidated and even more informed basis. that whole process should lead to the adoption of specific and concrete decisions. with regard to amendments 1 and 2, the commission believes that eco-labelling is a tool that will contribute to a more sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and improve the effectiveness of the common fisheries policy. with regard to amendment 3, it reiterates some of the advantages of adopting the third option for establishing minimum requirements for voluntary eco-labelling schemes, as mentioned in the commission communication. i thank you for this report and the wider debate generated on eco-labelling. i am confident that at the end of this process we can put into operation a proper basis for eco-labelling schemes that should have far-reaching and positive effects.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, mrs fraga, on the quality of her report, although it is nuanced, and it reflects the complexity of the issues at stake. the overall objective is to encourage the sector to adopt fishing methods that are more economically, socially and environmentally sustainable. the fact is that the over-exploitation of fisheries resources affects 25% of species and for some of them, in a particularly worrying way. for cod alone, stocks are at one third of the minimum recommended by scientific experts to avoid the extinction of the species. the committee on the environment has thus emphasized its priorities in its opinion. we are reluctant to the commission's preferred option in this debate, namely to establish minimum requirements - the commissioner has recalled this - for these eco-labelling programmes. our choice is more ambitious: a single and centralised labelling, essential criteria: transparency, optional nature of the programme, accessibility and credibility; the rapporteur has stressed this point. the success of this initiative depends on effective consultation with the industry, but ultimately it depends mainly on the consumer's choice. in this respect, a visit to the fish department of a supermarket is quite telling, i did it myself: "protect the sea", "support sustainable fishing", "fish ecologically", etc. there is a profusion of messages that create confusion. if labels are multiplied, we risk missing the point. the consumer will not feel involved, or pressured into making this better informed choice that we wish. we will not have achieved our objective of creating a virtuous circle. i therefore agree with mrs fraga's conclusions and hope that the commission will finally give serious consideration to the analysis and impact of the options proposed and that it will take our recommendations into account in the next steps of this process.
the concern about the civil liberties of europeans which emerges from the debate is of course touching and also justified. i would like to take this opportunity to say that i do not hear this fundamental defence of civil liberties when, for example, in my own country, belgium, the telephones of democratically elected members of my party are openly tapped by the state security, as was the case recently with the telephone of our leader of the group in the flemish parliament, filip de winter. if the civil liberties and privacy of elected members of parliament are being violated in the heart of the european union, in brussels, then i regret that i do not hear all those colleagues who are standing here leaping to tap the big evil devil in washington on the fingers. so let's not be the hapless virgins. of course, the rights of europeans and travellers must be protected as much as possible, but anyone who, after the foiled terrorist attacks this summer, still doubts the usefulness of much stricter control measures in international air traffic is actually almost criminally naive. it is unfortunately the price we have to pay for more security and for more freedom.
i voted for the belder report and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done. the socialist group's position is actually an argument for voting in favour of the report, because the criticism was that the report pays too much attention to the human rights situation in china. the fact is that the situation has not improved at all in recent years, not even since the tiananmen square events, and what we find is that there is too much willingness on the part of the governments in the european union, on the part of the business community and other bodies in europe, to simply trade with a communist regime in china, without there being any obligation to improve the human rights situation.
in writing. i support the compromise text on the middle east. there is no military solution to the problems in this region. the gross and deliberate use of violence by israel, in particular the bombing of civilian targets, the use of illegal weapons, the widespread destruction of civilian infrastructure and the serious pollution of coastal areas, as well as the indiscriminate rocket attacks by hezbollah, deserve our condemnation. member states should prevent a new arms race in the region by strictly complying with the eu code of conduct on arms exports for all arms supplies to the region. after the failure of us policy in the region, it is important to call for a new regional peace conference - a madrid ii - to find a comprehensive, lasting and viable solution, based on the right of the state of israel to live within secure and recognized borders and the right of the palestinians to a viable state based on the occupied territories, with extensive consideration of the security and disarmament aspects. the union should resume dialogue with syria and involve it in peace efforts, including through the signing of the joint association agreement as an important step towards a more effective approach to human rights in syria.
ladies and gentlemen, mr president, the serious human rights situation in zimbabwe, as we all know, has been a pressing issue for some time now and is not the first time that it has been brought up in this parliament. how many years has the marxist dictator mugabe been pursuing his racist policies against the white farmers in his country? with impunity he is pursuing a policy of ethnic cleansing, of which the vast majority of the black population of zimbabwe is the first victim. zimbabwe was once an agricultural country, one of the few sub-saharan countries able to export its agricultural products. mugabe's madness has created misery among his own people. agriculture is collapsing and famine is gripping the world. it is high time that effective action is taken against this man. like charles taylor of liberia, mugabe must be treated by the international community as a criminal against humanity and held accountable. we must not allow a double standard to prevail in africa either.
i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr ferber, for his excellent report. the building policy and the voluntary pension fund. first of all, the building policy, which all the speakers have already mentioned. we're here with a second report because there was that press release. there was a special task force. i think we worked very hard as a collegiate body and tried to give mr ferber the maximum support. the conclusions are therefore unanimous and have been quoted by most of the other members. we have not been able to establish any illegal acts, we have not been able to establish any corruption, but what is certain is that over the past 20 years the european parliament has overpaid a considerable sum, at least 32 million euros and perhaps more, between 42 and 60 million euros, in rent to the city of strasbourg. i also find it unacceptable that the city of strasbourg at one point unilaterally arranged for it to set aside eur 11 million over that period to cover what it called the risk that the parliament would one day leave strasbourg as its seat. the relationship between the city of strasbourg and the european parliament has been seriously damaged by these acts and it is not surprising that the whole debate on the seat of the european parliament has been shaken by them. i know that is not the subject of this discharge report, but i think that parliament should finally say in a recommendation to the council what it wants, whether it wants to remain in this city. finally, the voluntary pension fund, which is another important aspect of mr ferber's report. at the end of 2004, the technical deficit was about eur 43 million. fortunately, that had fallen to eur 28 million by the end of 2005. i would like to draw attention to my amendment no 5, which expressly states that parliament itself can never be held responsible for this shortfall. it's a voluntary pension fund, it's a pension fund that's managed by trustees. it is also they who are to blame for any deficit, not parliament itself, not the taxpayer. it is the administrators who are responsible for unethical or improper management of massive resources.
president, mr president of the commission, when decisions are taken with a market-correcting aim or effect, we know that we always come into politically sensitive waters in this house. and when we want to apply the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in concrete situations, there is often the same sensitivity and the ideological impact is never far away. the rapporteur, mr rapkay, has nevertheless succeeded in producing a balanced report, and i should like to congratulate him sincerely on this. i am very pleased to see that, firstly, the importance of the availability of services of general interest is underlined and, secondly, that what is also stated in the common position on the services directive is confirmed, namely that it is for the member states to determine what services of general interest are. thirdly, i welcome the fact that the question of legal certainty is prominently present. i have no problem with what some here call the rapporteur's ambiguous language. i would rather call that a wise approach, perhaps a diplomatic approach, but at least one that can help us further along the road to solutions. there is no explicit call for a framework directive. the sectoral differences are recognised in this report. if this report is adopted, we will be making it clear that we attach more importance to the substance of the matter than to the debate on form. and that's what we have to be about. so let us stick to that rapkay report, the commission will know where a large majority in parliament is, where there are still differences. we can then, pending the outcome of the commission's communication, take steps towards a balanced approach which the citizens can expect from us.
mr president, mr president of the commission, i too am delighted and thank you, mr barroso, for being here. we have been discussing for years a european legislation for services of general economic interest across sectors. the european parliament spoke in favour of such legislation in 2001 and 2004 and the european commission - that was the prodi commission - did not follow up, making the legal argument of the lack of a legal basis and the political argument of the lack of the political majority in the council needed to make progress. on this last point, the reference to article 322 of the draft constitutional treaty at least indicates, without question, that there was political agreement within the european council to move forward. today we are faced with a proposal for a directive on the internal market in services which partially covers services of general economic interest, a directive which many experts predict will not prevent many cases before the court of justice and which it is to be feared will undermine the achievement of the objective of greater legal certainty in the internal market in services. today, as other members have said, we are again faced with a european parliament resolution which will be voted on tomorrow, which is in fact a step back from the resolutions of 2001 and 2004. that is why we have tabled a number of amendments to clarify matters. but the real political novelty, it seems to me, is that, in addition to the socialist group, which has had legal experts draft a proposal for a framework directive, the european trade union confederation has also formulated a proposal for a text. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am thinking in particular of the european liaison committee on services of general interest, which is familiar with the facts of the case. that is why, mr president of the commission, on the basis of article 192 of the present treaty, we are asking you clearly to go ahead and not just to reply to us in a few months' time with a new consultation paper or a new white paper. i would like to end on a more political note. i think we should not underestimate the real or virtual concern of a number of our citizens who feel that there is a clear imbalance between the implementation of competition law, which in its general provisions is a horizontal right, and the defence of services of general interest at european level. and, as some colleagues have said, mr president, the interest of framework legislation for the council and the european parliament is that it gives them the opportunity to tell the commission and, ultimately, the court what kind of general provisions they want for european services of general interest. i think that is the political stake of this whole debate. the political majorities, i wish they were different, but they are what they are at the moment.
in writing. air pollution is a major public health concern. for example, fine particles emitted by certain human activities are thought to reduce the life expectancy of europeans by about 9 months. in belgium alone, nearly 13 000 people die prematurely each year, mainly from particulate matter emitted by diesel engines. the number of preventable respiratory diseases should prompt legislators to send a simple message: clean air for europe requires drastic pollution standards. that is not the message that the european parliament is sending today by adopting my colleague mr holger krahmer's report on the cafe directive. i regret that on a major citizen issue, the impact of pollution on human health, my colleagues have lacked ambition, aimed above all at not affecting certain industrial sectors. i hope that on second reading the european parliament will correct its tone, be more receptive to the arguments of environmental health specialists and avoid the pitfall of regulations setting less stringent standards than those currently in force. because with this vote, california has never seemed so far away!
in writing. it is a scandal of the highest order that parliament today is significantly weakening the existing air quality regulations. for the first time, parliament is actually taking a weaker position than the council. however, there is ample scientific evidence that fine dust pollution causes some 3.6 million years of life lost. that's 348,000 premature deaths every year. by 2020, air pollution caused by ozone and fine particulate matter will cost europe between eur 189 and 609 billion annually! the ep's position is significantly below the world health organisation's recommendations and those levels have been shown to be achievable in large cities in industrialised countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the deadline for the adoption of the directive to 31 december 2004 by a further two months. octopus politics, you mean. the united states, which already in 1997 issued an annual limit value of 15 μg/m3 for pm2.5, proves that a stricter approach is feasible! that limit must be reached by 2010 at the latest. a state like california goes even further. since 2003, a limit value of 12 μg/m3 has been applied. the ep wants to get it to 20 μg/m3 by ... 2015! if the council does not provide sufficient counterbalance to this weakening, the commission must withdraw the proposal.
president. - it was a historic mistake to open negotiations with turkey because the european union, as its name suggests, is a european project. now we have to watch everything go wrong. turkey is an islamic country with a predominantly authoritarian and patriarchal culture. it is then that you, as the eu, can clearly show who is in charge of the negotiating process, but now it is actually the opposite. turkey refuses to honour its obligations towards cyprus and now even dares to demand that europe break the so-called isolation of the occupied part of cyprus. turkey is making its own conditions. the commission and the council have told the electorate in europe that the negotiations can be stopped at any time if turkey does not cooperate. now they're trying to make all sorts of mistakes just to avoid having to act. first, they want the european court of justice to rule on the cyprus question. the aim is to conduct the negotiations in such a way that the sensitive chapters are not dealt with until the end. all this to buy time and then say we can't go back. where is the credibility of the european union?
mr president, there has been talk of a reversal of the position of the european socialists towards turkey. let me remind you of our position, it's been clear from the beginning. we are aiming, in the long term, at turkey's accession because we believe - and this is a genuine political project - in a multicultural, secular but multi-confessional europe, peaceful and open to the rest of the world. if we in afet have sent clear signals to turkey with regard to human rights, women's rights, minority rights and the recognition of cyprus, it is in the same constructive spirit. it is to put into practice a projected europe which would not be that of sarkozy, angela merkel or probably the pope. the challenge is immense and it is already running into the eurlings report which, in its new form, is badly balanced. this report rightly points out that the current process of democratization in turkey is not going as fast as we would like, but it ignores some essential progress made by turkey, particularly in the field of foreign affairs, and i am thinking of its participation in unifil, and also its non-participation in the iraq war. the amendments tabled by the pse have therefore attempted to correct the situation, to soften the tone, so to speak. as far as armenia is concerned, mr eurlings called me earlier and i should like to make myself very clear. parliament has recognised the armenian genocide and there will never be revisionism in this house. we have a duty to remember the one and a half million armenians who were massacred in 1915, that is, before the atatürk republic. we have this duty of remembrance not only in europe but also worldwide, and that is why we have asked the un to set up a committee of international experts on this subject in turkey. but to use this tragedy, as some are doing, to counter turkey's candidacy, or to open the door to rampant islamophobia, is a trap we do not want to fall into. that is why, after very difficult discussions, after really very sensitive negotiations in my group, we have adopted the line you have heard on several occasions: i will make it my own. i say to you, it is a difficult line: we will not ask for recognition of the armenian genocide as a prerequisite, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that when the time comes to settle accounts before accession, this sensitive point will weigh very heavily in the balance, and turkey knows this. for the time being, we expect it to do this paperwork, to consolidate its role as a stabilizer in the middle east and to make progress in this area... (the president withdrew the floor)
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this very good and thorough debate has brought to the fore the challenges and problems associated with the accession negotiations with turkey. but it has also clearly shown the enormous strategic importance of turkey to the european union. as the presidency, we will promote the accession negotiations in accordance with the general principles of enlargement. these general principles are equal treatment of applicants and advancement on the basis of merit. it is worth noting once again that the european council last confirmed in the summer of 2006 that it will respect existing commitments on enlargement and that work will continue on this basis. there are many challenges for turkey, but it is clear that the accession negotiations support the continuation of the reform process in turkey, and that is in everyone's interest. one of the key issues is that turkey must ratify and implement the ankara additional protocol. we are currently working actively to find a solution which would allow direct trade between the european union and northern cyprus and ensure that turkey would also open its ports to cypriot vessels. it is important to find a comprehensive solution to the cyprus problem within the united nations framework, at the same time as the accession negotiations. i thank you, mr president, and members for this very useful and active debate.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is obviously a significant contribution. this is an extremely interesting assessment which will no doubt help to inform the commission's report of 8 november. although we do not necessarily agree with everything in the report, i think it is important that parliament addresses this issue and clarifies our own view through its contribution. the debate that has just taken place has, i think, perfectly highlighted the challenges of the accession process for turkey which began almost a year ago. the commission will of course take this debate into account when it presents its own report on 8 november. it will be as rigorous, objective and uncompromising as ever. it will draw on a wide range of sources of information, including both official government data and analyses by turkish and other non-governmental organisations and major international institutions. it will also take account of the reports of your parliament's committees and the bozkurt report. i would like, mr. toubon, with all the respect i owe you and have for you, to reassure you. it won't be a children's story. the commission is not accustomed to what you are accusing it of. nor is it her calling, it is true, even to please you, to produce a one-sided report without nuances or incompleteness. it is therefore important to keep the challenge of this project in mind. the decision taken on 3 october 2005 reflects our commitment to respect our commitments, but also a strong mutual interest. i heard someone say here earlier that turkey had more to gain from this than europe. i'm not sure i do. i think that turkey obviously needs europe to continue to modernise, to democratize, to support the development of its economy, but i also believe that europe needs turkey at its side as a pole of peace, stability, democracy and prosperity. the news, as someone else has said, is enough to demonstrate the strategic value of this exercise every day. whether it is iran, iraq, the middle east in general, the dialogue between civilizations or the energy crisis, turkey always appears as a key country, an indispensable asset for europe. this does not in any way exempt turkey from the obligations which any candidate for membership must fulfil, and the european union is ensuring that this is the case. nor does she make herself a tutor who teaches with a stick. let us remember that turkey has put itself forward as a candidate. she took that step. it therefore agreed to face the difficulties of european integration, because it saw in it the key to its own future and that of its citizens. it is in this capacity that it must now continue and strengthen without weakening the process of reforms which it has courageously initiated. we will of course continue to encourage him to do so. turkey is aspiring to join europe. i think we should give him a chance. it is a chance that must be fair, that flows from clear and transparent rules established from the beginning, which also do not change according to the mood of the day. i'd like to add one thing. i sometimes feel, and not only in this house, that when we debate this issue, it is as if we were to evaluate turkey today for an accession that will take place tomorrow. it goes without saying that accession is not tomorrow and that the process may take some time. this is therefore only an intermediate assessment. we judge progress, we judge advances, which sometimes take too long, we even judge regressions. it is obvious that this is an evolutionary process. so it's very unfair to make a judgment based on a picture. that's not what membership is. this is not the same as any enlargement process we have had in the past. why should turkey be treated differently? and i come to the armenian question, to finish in 20 seconds. i would like to remind you, however, and i am very attentive, and europe is very attentive, because it is a duty of memory which is part of our heritage of values, that this question is not and has never been a condition set by the european council for the opening of negotiations or for accession itself, whether in the case of turkey or any other candidate country. and to impose it today would be to change the rules of the game in the process and would be very strongly felt in turkey as a manoeuvre by the european union to impose new conditions with the aim of preventing accession at all costs. it is essential, however, to ensure that freedom of expression, including on sensitive subjects related to turkey's history, is fully respected in turkey. the experience of our own countries shows that the debate on the past, however painful it may be, always arises from an internal awareness in our societies and rarely, if ever, from an injunction or a dictate from outside. the whole of this discussion is linked to the principle of reconciliation, which is one of the deepest foundations of the european project. the commission has always been clear on this. turkey's relations with armenia must be improved. this begins with the establishment of diplomatic relations and the opening of the land border, which is currently closed. the prospect of turkish membership must lead to an improvement in bilateral relations and to reconciliation, including on the past. we expect turkey to treat this matter as an integral part of a free and open public debate where all views must be exchanged. that, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is the commission's reply and my impression after following this extremely interesting debate. i shall of course echo this with mr olli rehn, who knows these matters better than i do. do not doubt for a second that your contribution to the november 8th report will be appreciated. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal. the reason he gave for doing so is not acceptable to me. i do not take it seriously in relation to the european parliament. he could have given an answer to the many comments made on the eurlings report.
the commissioner can give me some further information on the amendments it intends to make to the regulation on passenger rights, in order, first of all, to take account of the hundreds of complaints registered, for example, with regional consumer centres, which show either serious shortcomings or the poor application of the existing regulation on passenger rights. secondly, how exactly does it intend to define force majeure, which is the argument used systematically by airlines to avoid applying the regulation? finally, i would also like to ask the commission how it intends to take account in future of problems such as those experienced by the hundreds of french travellers recently stranded in turkey and israel as a result of failures by dry-flight operators who are not covered by any european regulation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was in spain at the end of august and i must say that i was profoundly shocked by the terrible images i saw of these poor herons landing on the canary islands. but i must also say that i was ashamed, not of what the spanish are doing - they are doing their best - but ashamed of the lack of solidarity of the european countries that promised to help spain and did not give it. and shame on you, commissioner, i hope you have read the spanish press about the weakness of frontex's resources. it was too little, too late. mr president-in-office of the council, it is a common practice in european circles to talk about the fact that we are building a common area of freedom within a common border. but, mr president, remind your colleagues that a common border is managed and protected in common. it is a scandal that some member states are trading in solidarity, it is a disgrace that one member state has to beg for help from others to carry out a task which is in the interest of all. (applause) i would like to thank
i was originally going to vote for the eurlings report today, but in view of a number of amendments, particularly those on armenia, i changed my mind during the vote and voted against this report at the end. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. but the eurlings report did prove that the minds in this parliament and in europe have been moving in the right direction over the last two years and that we are becoming more aware of the many areas where ankara is lacking in order to meet the copenhagen criteria at all. it was also a good thing that the rapporteur mentioned the armenian genocide, but today's vote shows how liberals, greens and socialists in this parliament are being put in their place today. they talk about human rights and great principles, but when it comes down to it, they shrink their tails for the sake of real politics. it is hard to imagine a more flattened attitude. not every genocide has a right to be remembered, apparently. the same applies to the cyprus question, which many in this parliament seem to forget, namely that turkey has been keeping the northern half of the island under a reign of terror for over thirty years. this country can never and must never become a member of the european union.
i also voted against the eurlings report because it still maintains that turkey's accession remains desirable. however, looking at the impressive list of serious problems, one should know better. the removal of the essential passage on the armenian genocide is a disgraceful affair. we in parliament are in fact renouncing the two resolutions we have already adopted on this subject in the past. it is also a heartbeat for the turkish government, which can quietly continue its policy of state negationism. in this connection i must also condemn the lack of backbone of the left-wing groups. the walloon socialist party, for example, withdrew its support for the recognition of the armenian genocide for fear of losing votes within two weeks to the growing number of turkish voters in brussels. so much for the great principles that they claim to defend. speaking of hypocrisy!
in writing. yes, i voted in favour of the report on turkey's accession. death in the soul or almost. we have confirmed the vote in the committee on foreign affairs on many points: we regret the slowdown in reforms, we note the persistent shortcomings in freedom of expression, freedom of religion, minority rights, women's rights and cultural rights. we are very clear on the cyprus question. we are particularly concerned that, while accession is the objective of the negotiations, it will not be automatic. i voted in favour of the amendments to the rapporteur's text. then why the big regret? because of the armenian genocide issue where parliament has completely misjudged itself in relation to its previous votes. in giving in to the pressure of the socialists and others, the plenary has just backed down: we no longer ask turkey to recognise the armenian genocide as a precondition for membership. this is an unacceptable turn of events which sends a disastrous signal to the negotiators: parliament is not keeping its word, it is losing its memory, and, even worse, it is not keeping its memory.
par écrit. – j'ai décidé de m'abstenir pour le vote définitif du rapport d'initiative de camiel eurlings portant sur les progrès accomplis par la turquie sur la voie de l'adhésion. je conteste en effet l'opportunité et la pertinence d'un tel rapport alors que la commission européenne, chargée de suivre les progrès réalisés par la turquie sur la voie de l'adhésion, n'a pas encore publié le sien. c'est à la commission européenne seule que revient la compétence de juger des progrès réalisés par la turquie. de plus, le rapport eurlings m'a paru déséquilibré. les efforts que ce rapport demande à la turquie sur de nombreux thèmes, dont la liberté d'expression, les droits des minorités et les droits des femmes, sont bien entendu indispensables, mais il reconnait trop peu les avancées de la turquie sur la voie de l'etat de droit et du respect des droits humains. la turquie fait d'importants efforts depuis le dépôt de sa candidature pour respecter les critères d'adhésion; elle a certes toujours de nombreux progrès à faire, mais elle est sur la bonne voie. les amendements votés lors de la session plénière, notamment celui du pse qui supprime la reconnaissance du génocide arménien comme condition préalable à toute adhésion, ont légèrement rééquilibré le rapport eurlings. cependant, cela ne m'a pas totalement satisfait.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, the report we are going to vote on today, i hope, is a direct follow-up to the three commission communications which constitute the so-called 'development aid effectiveness package' and is therefore part of the broader framework of pursuing the objective of improving european development cooperation. that's for context. as regards the challenge, i would even say the challenge, it is very clear: how are we europeans going to significantly improve the effective aid we are giving to the countries of the south? in other words, how are we going to ensure that the aid we give to the countries of the south is translated much more systematically into concrete advances that can really change the lives of millions of people living in conditions that are humanly unacceptable? the collective awareness of what our help could be improved on has taken place. political commitments have been made to make this a priority of our development cooperation policy. the european consensus on development exists and so does the new strategy for africa. that's a great thing. the legislative and technical framework is being put in place. we have to make all this happen, if i may say so. the very definition of development cooperation and therefore what each member state is legitimately entitled to count as official development aid, the minimum level of aid to be reached to meet our commitments, the unbundling of aid which the member states - some of them, in any case - are clearly reluctant to apply, the absence of indicators to assess the progress that will actually be made in improving european aid, or the concern of the actors on the ground that there is a certain backwardness in the involvement of the beneficiary countries in the strategies and programmes for them, are some of the many issues we have dealt with in this report. in addition to these specific questions, which allow us to grasp in part the extent of the work we still have to do to improve our aid in practice, the 3 cs, complementarity of actions, coordination of programmes and coherence of policies, also constitute a framework for work, a particularly important reading of the action we will have to take in the coming years in the field of cooperation. as far as the complementarity of the measures, whether sectoral or geographical, is concerned, the division of labour is bound to give rise to a number of resistances and difficulties. with openness and boldness, we must be able to raise it. the debate cannot be reduced to a confrontation between the protectionism of the member states and the centralism of brussels, even if it is true that it is not unnecessary to warn against excessive centralism consisting in adopting a top-down approach to programming characterised in particular by a reduced participation of the partner countries and civil society in the definition of strategies and priorities. however, centralised coordination between member states and the commission would have undoubted advantages and would, in particular, avoid the situation of a multitude of different actors doing the same thing in the same country or region. the donor atlas, for example, clearly shows that there are forgotten crises, orphan countries as they are called. in addition to post-tsunami situations where the recipient countries are unable to absorb a large amount of one-off aid. although coordination has been discussed for years, the challenges of harmonising procedures and better coordinating the various cooperation programmes of the union remain enormous. moreover, policy coherence concerns the approach we adopt both at the level of the different geographical areas where our development policy is applied and at the level of the various community policies themselves. this is a point on the agenda of the finnish presidency, which has decided to devote a significant part of its work to this subject. it is therefore wise to limit ourselves in our report to stressing its importance until we see what the near future holds, but i would like to take this opportunity to raise this question which seems to me to be essential and which ultimately touches the very foundation of any cooperation initiative, or even any political project. at the moment, as we know, and as we regularly hear, boats continue to reach the spanish coast, our coast, with hundreds of people on board every day trying to escape a fate they have decided to refuse at the risk of their lives. this situation obviously raises questions of migration management, border control or integration policy for immigrant populations. it also raises the question, and this is a very important question, of the effectiveness of our cooperation policy and of its coherence with the other policies we pursue. what is cooperation - without wanting to sink into the caricature - a cooperation of more than 40 years, at the end of which the populations we claim to help aspire to only one thing: to flee their living conditions at all costs? let's not be afraid of words, for me, it could be called failure. what does a cooperation policy granting 50 billion euros a year mean to the countries of the south when it is combined with a policy requiring them to honour a debt whose annual repayment is four times that amount? how can we continue to declare our determination to work for the development of the countries of the south and at the same time continue to impose on them the rules of free trade which they are unable to accept on the terms we impose on them? how can we agree to fight poverty, when at the same time nothing is done to combat the structural causes of poverty? in fact, however effective development cooperation policy may be, it will never be able to meet the many challenges facing the countries of the global south on its own. this is precisely the reason why it needs to be improved, because the more effective european development cooperation is, the more it will have succeeded in making europe aware of the need to pursue a comprehensive policy geared to the pursuit of a common priority objective: the emergence of a more just and united world.
i voted against this joint motion for a resolution because the politically correct discourse on immigration, which is an inviolable medieval dogma in this institution, is also reflected in this resolution. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. if we want to assimilate willing immigrants in europe, we must also dare to say that those who cannot make this will must return to their countries of origin. we must then also dare to say that there must be a watertight immigration stop, coupled with an ambitious development policy that reduces the pressure of immigration from the third world. we must then dare to say that there is no place in europe for islamic fundamentalism. the swiss people made a clear choice in a referendum last sunday to preserve their identity. europe would do better to follow the example of the independent and free swiss rather than to bow to the intellectual terror of the immigration lobby.
in writing. the emergence of new sciences always arouses enthusiasm, hope, questioning and even opposition. nanotechnologies: the sciences that deal with objects the size of atoms are no exception! as a liberal member of parliament, i am naturally inclined to support the work of researchers in nanoscience and the control of the assembly of atoms. a revolution that holds great potential for technological applications in objects as diverse as vehicles, food, medicine and regenerative medicine. europe's position in nanotechnology in relation to global competition needs to be strengthened. budgets must be released in addition to the 610 million euros per year of the 7th fp7! it is also essential to provide clear answers to citizens who are concerned about the potential toxicity of nanoparticles to the environment, the food chain and the body. citizenship is not something that is decreed, it is something that is earned and requires education, patience and transparency. the union and the member states must therefore avoid repeating here the mistakes made in the gmo dossier, where opacity in information and action has led to mistrust and rejection of a science that is promising by a large number of european citizens!
madam president, on 20 october, the european heads of state or government will also be discussing immigration in lahti, as i have said. the question is, however, what conclusions they will draw. two weeks ago, ladies and gentlemen, a tragedy struck for the first time with unfortunate asylum seekers off the coast of europe. once again, it was the fault of unscrupulous traffickers who want to bring economic fortune seekers to europe for a lot of money. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all those who have been detained in the country. most of the people on board were barely saved. but to prevent such tragedies in the future - on lampedusa, in the canary islands and everywhere on our external borders - europe must send clear signals, because gentle healers make stinking wounds. there must be a tough crackdown on the traffickers. they can't be punished enough. secondly, we need a strong asylum policy, one which makes it clear to the rest of the world that europe is serious about protecting its borders. i would therefore like to congratulate the swiss on the wise choice they have made in all their cantons, in choosing to tighten up immigration conditions and the right to asylum, because paradoxically it is the wisest way to pursue a coherent, humane and just policy on these issues. i would therefore like to express the hope that the european heads of state or government will reflect on the swiss example at the informal summit in lahti. europe must learn to listen to its citizens on major social issues. we have seen, for example, how the eurocracy arrogantly wants to continue with a constitution which was rejected by the majority of the population, as in france and the netherlands. the people's voice is often heard in a very different way than when decisions are made over their heads by a caste that is alien to the world. this is no doubt true of the pressing immigration issue.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank mrs jeggle for her excellent report. we shall be voting tomorrow on this result of long work and i can only rejoice at the common position we have reached. however, i would like to mention three fundamental points which are also mentioned in the report and which i would like to emphasize. firstly, i would like to stress the need to speed up the development, validation and approval of alternative methods to animal testing. we must give ourselves the financial and logistical means to find different methods of avoiding these trials. we must also limit and strictly regulate these where no alternative is yet possible. secondly, we must not forget that the main consequence of improving animal welfare is an additional cost for european producers. i therefore stress the need to value their efforts through labels and information campaigns to explain the reason for a differentiated price. european producers must not be penalized for complying with the requirements of the european union and improving our food, and consumers must know that price increases are the result of improved food. the introduction of a european label and the organisation of appropriate marketing and information campaigns will enable consumers to identify products which are particularly respectful of animal welfare. thirdly, animal welfare must not be a european value only. the measures we adopt within the framework of the union must also be respected by all the countries from which we import meat. this is an economic and qualitative imperative. the european commission must therefore do its utmost, with the help of international organisations such as the council of europe or the world organisation for animal health, to ensure that the wto pays more attention to animal welfare and harmonises upwards the measures relating to it. the long-term objective must be clearly to achieve the highest and most uniform level of animal protection possible worldwide.
mr president, a lot of people wish the fundamental rights office every success. given what's been going on lately, it'll be necessary. the bureau will have enough work to defend freedom of speech, i think. we heard yesterday in this parliament the outrage at what is happening in russia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'll give you a few examples. in my own country, the trade unions announced the day before yesterday that they would seek out all the members who had stood for my party, the flemish interest, in the recent elections in order to expel them. this amounts to a berufsverbot in the centre of the union. in france, a professor of philosophy, redeker, is forced to go into hiding after receiving death threats because the oh so tolerant islam does not tolerate criticism of its holy koran. france is threatened by ankara and the turkish government with an economic boycott because the so-called model candidate country does not like the fact that charles aznavour and president chirac are demanding in yerevan that turkey recognize the armenian genocide. indeed, colleagues, there is a lot of work in store for this bureau, not only in russia.
in writing. since article 1 merely calls on the commission to consider various options, this does not yet involve decisions on which solution should be chosen. for the sake of completeness, therefore, measures which are not considered by all parties to be positive can and should be analysed.
in writing. the liberal and intellectual professions are so called because they differ from other service providers in several respects. the fact that we must guide them so that they can make the greatest possible contribution to the lisbon objectives and respect the fundamental principles of the treaty does not mean that we should ignore their specific nature. the ehler report does acknowledge this specificity; that's why i can support it. the rapporteur, mr ehler, has dealt with his report in the right way: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. this is in the interests of the customers (entrepreneurs & consumers/clients), of the mutual competitive and collegial relations within the professional group and of the general interest.
the essential question in this debate is the following: how can the future adapted schengen information system be integrated into a common european strategy to deal with the two greatest challenges facing europe today, namely the mass illegal immigration with its consequences that we see every day and the danger of islamic terrorism? that is the central question in this whole debate. an information system, in which all countries cooperate fully and which is extended in function from the original system, could be of great help in the detection and deportation of illegal immigrants and also in the fight against terrorism. but this information system was already dealt a serious blow last year when the european court of justice ruled that a country cannot refuse access to anyone simply because they are listed in the system as a danger to public order. the court held that a country must be able to determine whether the person concerned constitutes a threat. the deeper and more fundamental question is whether the individual member states themselves accept the logic and the spirit of the schengen system. for example, the regularisation of illegals, people who have entered the schengen area illegally, is a clear violation of the schengen agreement. in short, the information system must be placed within a broader framework. it only makes sense if the member states effectively guard the external borders, have an active and consistent policy of detection and expulsion and take strong action against the smugglers who make a lot of money at the poorly guarded external borders.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs isler béguin, for her excellent work and report on this proposal. i would also like to thank mrs gutiérrez for her very positive approach and to assure both the two ladies and all the members of parliament that the commission will work to facilitate the rapprochement and the rapid reaching of an agreement with the council, i should stress that since september 2004 - when the college of commissioners adopted the commission's proposal - about a year after the first reading, we have made a great deal of progress with life+ and the european commission's position has changed significantly on a number of issues compared to its first proposal. i believe that the council's common position, with which the commission largely agrees, meets many of parliament's basic demands. the draft regulation now includes a section on nature and biodiversity. life+ may finance measures and activities for the exchange of views and best practices or demonstration projects, including those relating to the management and designation of natura 2000 sites and to habitats and bird guidelines. the conservation aspect of life+ is important. at least 40% of the resources will be allocated to expenditure in this area. i would like to stress that this is the minimum rate and that member states can spend a higher rate if they wish. as regards the financing of natura 2000, the commission has secured funding opportunities through the structural funds, the fisheries fund and the rural development programme under the common agricultural policy. the commission may, of course, encourage natura 2000 spending, but in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, member states have the competence and discretion to decide to what extent they wish to make use of these funding possibilities. the commission, for its part, will do its utmost to ensure that member states take advantage of funding opportunities wherever possible. the opinion of the directorate-general for the environment is always sought before the adoption of strategic reference frameworks and operational programmes for the structural funds, as well as rural development programmes submitted by member states. i repeat that one of our first priorities is to ensure that natura 2000 is adequately funded and i therefore very much appreciate parliament's support in this regard. however, the most important issue for discussion tonight is the method of implementation of the programme. the common position provides for 80% of the funding for life+ to be allocated to the member states. i regard parliament's preference for maintaining central management of the programme as a sign of confidence in the commission. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the method proposed in the common position is therefore preferable. first, it is in line with the principle of subsidiarity: it provides the greatest possible flexibility to meet the different needs of the member states. secondly, it ensures that all countries receive a minimum share of funding. under the current life 3 system, they often don't get paid. thirdly, it is transparent and auditable and ensures that the added value for the european union is maintained. as you know, the transfer of management responsibilities is at the heart of the commission's proposal. the member states are building on this and are already preparing draft programmes. the commission cannot therefore accept the various amendments concerning the deletion of all references to the transfer of management responsibilities. unfortunately, the outcome of the informal meetings between parliament, the council and the commission following the vote in the committee on the environment on 14 september did not allow us to make any significant progress towards reaching an agreement on the transfer of management responsibilities. however, despite the differences, we all support the life+ programme and its implementation as soon as possible so that resources can be released and there is no delay in the implementation of the programmes. member states have over €2 billion for the life+ programme. it is necessary to find a way of disbursing this money as quickly as possible, even if it means compromises on all sides. we must therefore continue to work together to find practical solutions, particularly as regards the method of implementing life+. in this context, we will make every effort to reach a compromise between the council and parliament and will mediate to facilitate an agreement.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, twelve months ago we denounced, together with our rapporteur, mrs isler béguin, this real gift from the commission. i mean - we have already talked a lot about this - the delegation of environmental policies to the member states, up to 80% of the life+ budget. i am therefore also sorry, as is our rapporteur, that in our informal exchanges with the finnish presidency, the latter has not made a strong gesture in the direction of the concerns of the citizens for a better environment and a better quality of life. clearly, this institutional disagreement must be resolved and, in the meantime, the principle of continuity of financing community environmental policy must of course prevail: that is the aim of our amendment no 32. like my colleagues, i therefore wonder about this 'blank cheque' offered on a silver platter to the member states. why should we renationalize what europe as such does very well, albeit with very few resources, as has already been said, namely the protection of biodiversity and rare species? i will mention some of the successes of the nature, environment and third countries strands since life was set up in 1992. in my own country, belgium, no less than 120 projects for the protection of biodiversity have been co-financed by the european union. thanks to life and the overall good functioning of natura 2000, 20% of belgium is now classified as a sensitive area for nature protection. the commission also unveiled last thursday 75 environmental projects which will receive eu support, a total of €136 million from the life programme, and, returning to belgium, i welcome the fact that the restoration of the hautes fagnes plateau in the beautiful ardennes region, covering more than 4 500 hectares, is among the projects selected. should we take this as a good omen? i hope so, because in defending europe's environment we are also concerned about the welfare and health of future generations and i am sure that europe has everything to gain, as i have stressed, from investing itself as such in this fight to preserve nature and biodiversity. in conclusion, mr president, as has been said and it is important to emphasize, this is a battle that has transcended political logic throughout the discussions. the deep cohesion we have around our rapporteur, whom i would once again like to thank and congratulate, is the best proof of this today.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, with a few exceptions, all the amendments of the committee on agriculture have been accepted by the committee on budgets. first of all, i welcome the adoption of the amendments concerning the reintroduction of the preliminary draft budget. moreover, i welcome the adoption of the amendments concerning increased aid to the poorest: food aid, milk refunds, free distribution of fruit and vegetables, promotion measures, distribution of milk to schoolchildren and beekeeping. we would have liked to have seen more consideration given to this, for example, to the suckler cow premium, which is vital in less-favoured areas, to aid for energy crops and to pilot projects on energy efficiency. we shall be able to table amendments to that effect again in plenary. overall, we feel that the committee on budgets has paid more attention to the amendments we have proposed than we had hoped, and we thank you, mr president, mr rapporteur, and ladies and gentlemen, for the constructive spirit that has characterized your choices.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i would first of all - and this will not surprise you - like to thank the rapporteur general, our colleague and friend james elles, and the committee on budgets as a whole for the way in which they have taken account of the priorities of the committee on civil liberties. of these priorities, two clearly merited special budgetary attention. the first priority was to improve control of the union's external borders, which are currently subject to permanent and considerable migratory pressures, particularly along the entire southern flank. you can see that by watching television and reading the newspapers every day. for this reason, we had to strengthen the operational capacity of the frontex agency, which we set up for this purpose. fortunately, this has been done, with the support of our general rapporteur and our spanish colleagues in particular, who have helped us to correct - i hesitate, madam president of the council, between the words stupidity and incoherence, i will choose stupidity - the stupidity of the council which had reduced the resources of the frontex agency despite the current circumstances. we had a second priority which was also recognised by the whole of our parliament and which was voted for by the european citizens in all the available polls. this priority concerns the strengthening of the means to combat terrorism and organised crime, which, as you know, are being used against the union's internal borders. on this point too, our message was heard by the committee on budgets, with particular reference to the increase in the resources allocated to eurojust, which had also been - madam president of the council, you will choose the word - reduced in the council's draft budget. i say to you, madam president, that in the area of freedom, security and justice the council is not up to the challenges and expectations of the citizens and our parliament will have the honour of correcting by its vote the inconsistencies in the council's position, whose members are fond of incantatory declarations but are reluctant to act together to deal with serious and common problems. that's too bad.
member of the commission. mr president, as our german friends say, bildung ist mehr – education is more. it is a key to many more answers in life than are possible without education, and it empowers individuals and societies to seek a better economic, social, cultural and political future; and that is why i am sure that an integrated lifelong learning programme could provide many new opportunities in quantitative and qualitative terms, because when we see it in combination with what we are doing in europe all together, it means much more than just a programme. we are agreeing to create the lifelong learning strategies in member states by the end of this year. we have a programme from january 2007, and we have a benchmark in our cooperation, in order to increase the participation of adults in the lifelong learning systems in member states. as mrs pack said, lifelong learning is not a luxury, it is a necessity; and i am sure that it gives individuals experiences which enrich their lives and improve their employability. learning helps institutions to transfer knowledge from one to another across europe, to innovate, to improve and to modernise. it increases the transparency of member states’ systems, because when cooperation is open, we see how systems are moving and becoming more and more compatible. in short, it is a valuable european instrument at the direct service of our citizens. the new programme will expand opportunities and will, i am sure, bring even more benefits. so i am delighted that parliament, the council and the commission were able, almost as soon as the financial framework was finalised earlier this year, to reach agreement on the text of the programme decision. i know it was not easy, but if parliament adopts it without amendment, as your rapporteur proposes, then the programme can be implemented on time from the start of 2007. given the complexity of the programme, that is a major achievement. if we compare the past with the current complex programme, we can see the hard work that has been done. i would like to extend particular thanks to mrs pack, the rapporteur, for using her great expertise and experience in the field to make it possible to reach an agreement so rapidly at second reading. on the text itself, the commission is fully in agreement that it should not be amended. the financial envelope will be close to eur 7 billion for seven years at current prices. but we should also see it in broader terms, where opportunities are growing. i do not want to go into details, but i frequently encourage ministers to look into structural funds to see how they could serve the mobility of students; how other programmes like erasmus mundus could also help to build a more attractive european educational space. our services have been working at full speed to have the implementation arrangements in place so that we can publish the first call for proposals under the lifelong learning programme before the end of this year, and to ensure that the programme is more accessible and simpler for the end user. thank you for providing the possibility of enabling us to be so advanced at this moment.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, commissioner, it is of course a good thing that we can give the green light so that these important educational programmes can continue. and bildung is mehr, as you rightly point out. i am not saying that the commission has not done so. the member states should never have cut back on these programmes. i am not saying that the commission should be unable to take action on the basis of the report. these are programmes which help us to turn young people into european citizens, the europeans of the future. how is it possible that we have put the knife in those programs? that is extremely short-sighted and in any case a huge missed opportunity for the future of the eu. i think the member states have shown here in a perfect way how to cut into one's own flesh. every erasmus student, commissioner, every comenius student, you will agree with me - and i have met many of them in recent years - every young person has an experience that shapes him or her for the rest of his or her life. it broadens your horizons, it increases your chances of employment, it connects you with others, you experience diversity, you learn to deal with it. in this way, these programmes also contribute to tolerance and, of course, to european citizenship. in fact, parliament should not have adopted this limited budget, which is another matter of course. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a decision on the question of the european social fund. but there is no point, as i said, in going to the wall of complaints. it's too late for that now. now we have to do everything we can to make the best of this. i think schools are creative enough to look for and find additional sources of funding. perhaps the business community, whether or not supported by the european union or by national governments, can help. why shouldn't companies sponsor exchange projects? for example, a factory near me - ford - might invite senior students to visit their other factory in another country across the border. it's just an idea, maybe there are possibilities. commissioner, president, it is crucial that we encourage as much as possible the exchange between students and schools. i hope, and i am early, that the council and the member states will realise, in the next multiannual programme, that you cannot save on such programmes with impunity. i sincerely wish you, commissioner, every success in implementing the next programme 2007-13.
president, president-in-office of the council, commissioner, finland is facing a particularly difficult time for the european union, because heads of state and government are actually deeply divided over the future of the european union. and what is worse, some of them do not know where they want to go with the union. a prestigious guest could indeed provide a solution. it happened around president george w. bush and it's happening now around vladimir putin. but given its history, finland is perhaps the best placed member state to engage in an open and thorough dialogue with russia. i would therefore like to congratulate you, mr president, on the outcome of the informal summit and i would also like to congratulate you on the consensus you have been able to build, both on energy policy and on russia. but i must say from the heart: 25 plus 2 heads of government and heads of state all around the leader of a great power! i keep finding it a little sad. it is my greatest wish that the european union should finally be able to mature from its heads of government and its heads of state.
the informal summit in lahti, mr president, has once again painfully exposed the limitations of the european union. president putin has not been persuaded to sign the energy agreement which is to allow better access to russian gas and oil fields. eu companies investing in russia still face significant legal uncertainty, in particular as regards compliance and enforceability of contracts. president putin came to lahti knowing that the european union would not be able to speak as one man about the human rights situation in russia and russia's attitude towards, for example, georgia. the lack of political unity is apparently as structural as our dependence on russian energy sources. mr president, i cannot imagine that the informal summit did not discuss the negotiating process with turkey, given turkey's refusal to conform to the criteria in force, given the general deterioration of relations with turkey; however, one third of the turkish population still favours eu membership. i would like to hear from the council to what extent the member states are prepared to accept bogus solutions such as placing cypriot seaports under united nations control.
mr president, as a non-attached member of parliament we have no opportunity to express our criticism or our amendment to texts by means of amendments and we have therefore been unable to vote for either of the two resolutions before us. in one case we could not be in favour, because we could not possibly agree to a resolution which already considers the possible independence of the basque country unacceptable in principle. but in the other case we could not vote in favour either, because we believe that in a normal political world we can only talk to people who absolutely disapprove of and even condemn violence - and it is often purely criminal violence. but the essence of the whole thing is that the european union as such and the institutions of the european union as such have no business interfering in the internal affairs of spain and the basque country. it is not to make it more difficult for the basque country to secede, if it were to do so by the democratic will of the electorate, and certainly not the other way around. let spain and the basque country decide for themselves which way to go, in a non-violent, negotiated and democratic way.
in writing. we regret that a joint resolution could not be reached; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. however, everyone agrees that dialogue is the only way to a peaceful solution. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. it is therefore not possible to condemn in advance any democratic process which involves a change in the internal borders of the eu on the basis of the right of self-determination. at the same time, all democratic and peaceful processes towards greater autonomy and independence in other european member states are condemned. the european union is not a party to the maastricht treaty. regionalization and europeanisation can go hand in hand. my party, the n-va, stands for a peaceful europe where all peoples have the opportunity to develop, starting from the right of self-determination and in a spirit of 'unity in diversity'. this debate on a possible peaceful solution cannot therefore be reduced to a debate on terrorism alone.
in writing. because the european parliament is now effectively held hostage by the spanish socialists, who initiated this debate, we initially thought we should abstain on the two resolutions proposed today. finally, we supported the epp resolution because it reflects our conviction that the efta did not fulfil the conditions for becoming a credible negotiating partner. it is important to remember that eta has not offered any excuses to the families of the 1,000 victims of the attacks, that it has never given up its weapons. on 23 september it pledged to "continue the struggle in blood, arms in hand". we voted against the resolution by the socialist and other groups, not because of its content, which is trivial and useless, but because it is dictated, in principle, by batasuna. eta has always sought to internationalise the peace process. through its political wing, and thanks to the spanish socialists, it is now being done in a european parliament deeply divided by a debate that should never have taken place here and now. as long as eta does not give up its weapons, it will remain a terrorist organisation to be fought against and not a political interlocutor.
in writing. it is not good for the european parliament to put such problems on the agenda because they are internal affairs. apart from the spanish colleagues, we are not given the opportunity to have a wide-ranging discussion on the subject. this is a matter of great importance and it is being reduced to a mere partisan debate, because it would be absurd if all non-spanish colleagues did not have full confidence in the spanish colleagues in their group on this subject. but i also believe that, in principle, no region or minority should resort to violence in its quest for autonomy, because this approach is contrary to the european values which we have been defending for over 60 years. i say this deliberately as a representative of the german-speaking minority in belgium.
i voted against the joint motion for a resolution, which was inspired by the socialists, on the so-called peace process in spain. i was so naive as to think that the european treaties had introduced the principle of subsidiarity, but no, europe wants to interfere in purely internal spanish affairs. i was so naive to think that democrats would not sit down with murderers and terrorists and give in to their blackmail, but no, europe does not want to encourage this kind of practice from now on. but this sets a dangerous precedent. the left in this parliament, followed by quite a few useful idiots in the liberal group, seem to think it is normal for the government of one of the member states to negotiate with a terrorist organization which does not even want to apologize to the families of all the senseless victims who have fallen in recent years. but if we know that some of the leaders of the groups in this parliament who are tabled this resolution today have in the past personally sheltered wanted terrorists such as hans-joachim klein of the red army group, then we should not be surprised at the left and the far left, always ready to make a moral knight of themselves. "chassez le naturel, il revient au galop" is the french title of the book.
president. - i did not use the word 'idiots', i used the words 'useful idiots', which has been a political expression for over a century and which, as my colleague mr martinez, the speaker, recalls, was first used by lenin. it is a typical political expression often used in political debate and certainly not intended personally. if that is what the speaker thought, i apologise for that. it was just a political attack and certainly not meant personally.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution by four political groups, including the pse, on the peace process in spain, in which the european parliament supports the fight against terrorism and the peace initiative launched by the spanish government in the basque country. i think it is important that the european parliament should take a stand on this issue: the problem of terrorism is not confined to spain, and we in the european parliament must support such a process which can lead to a solution to the conflict which has caused the spanish people profound pain. i would stress, however, that recognizing and welcoming the peace process begun in spain does not make us forget the 800 victims of eta terrorism. while i welcome this initiative, i continue to strongly condemn any act of violence by eta. in this connection, i welcome the above resolution and hope that it will make a useful contribution to the continuation of the process which has been initiated.
i voted against the amendments to the report on the europe for citizens programme because this programme is just another plaster on a wooden leg. the aim is to bring citizens closer to the european institutions, but this will never be achieved if policies are pursued which, in a number of fundamental respects, go directly against the wishes of the majority of the population. i refer to the enlargement policy and more specifically to the possible accession of turkey. the european union must take action to tackle the democratic deficit and the lack of accountability to the european citizens. what has now been approved by parliament does not change the problem at its root and is therefore just another waste of money.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, south ossetia is one of those extremely vexing ‘frozen’ conflicts, and i remember being occupied with it myself when i, madam president-in-office, was sitting exactly where you are sitting now, fully five years ago. but that frozen conflict is now in danger of becoming a hot conflict. there is an urgent need to calm things down, and my group backs the appeal to both russia and georgia to soften their language and their actions. what has been done to georgian citizens is wholly unacceptable, as is, of course, russia’s decision to cut all communications with georgia. that president putin has warned of the danger of bloodshed in the presence of mr vanhanen, president-in-office of the council, and mr barroso, president of the commission, must have been deeply embarrassing and is, in any case, totally unacceptable; so is the fact that russia continues to issue passports to south ossetians. that georgia has threatened to resort to violence is also unacceptable. if the eu is serious about this matter, then it should be prepared to replace the russian peacekeepers if that becomes necessary. this is no light commitment and it should be weighed up very seriously. but first let us use all the multilateral and european peace mechanisms that are in place.
the rapporteur. mr president, thank you for being here. the european union-syria association agreement is the missing piece in the barcelona process. but it is also the european parliament's arles affair: so many times announced and never concluded. negotiations on this agreement began in 1996, even though syria has not withdrawn from lebanon. they are difficult but they lead to a project that has been revised many times and which includes the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism. the agreement was initialled in october 2004 in the council, but the ratification process was interrupted by the heinous assassination of former prime minister hariri on 14 february 2005. we know what happens next. voices in lebanon and around the world immediately point the finger at the regime in damascus. an investigation, first by judge mehlis and now by judge brammetz, is being carried out on the spot, while resolution 1559 calls for the withdrawal of syrian troops and intelligence services from lebanon. the presumption of innocence is a pillar of our legal systems, but the precautionary principle must not be forgotten. while syria has been diligent and has quickly withdrawn its troops from lebanon, it was initially reluctant to cooperate with judge mehlis. europe has therefore cautiously distanced itself from the regime in damascus. is this caution still appropriate today, when various developments, both on the international scene and in the syrian domestic political system, should prompt us to reopen dialogue? the council will decide, but i am in favour of dialogue and the committee on foreign affairs has given me a lot of support in this direction. this dialogue could eventually lead to the signing of the agreement, but this is a premature issue at the moment and is not the subject of the recommendation. what are these events? first, the resumption of effective cooperation with the investigation of judge brammetz, which is attested to in his last report. secondly, the fact that by isolating syria, we have been counterproductive to the internal democracy of the country, without weakening a strong regime. our empty chair policy helped to destabilize a timidly emerging reformist current. moreover, europe's voice, which was heard in the past when it came to defending activists and political prisoners, is now hardly heard. finally, and this is the third point, the lebanese tragedy was a terrible lesson. the israeli-lebanese war has shown, if necessary, the danger and futility of force. it has proved the need to work politically with all the actors in this conflict, and we know that behind its two main actors, other influences are at work: that of the united states, no doubt, but also that of iran and syria. with europe closing its doors to syria, it has found other allies, including iran, a supplier of oil but also a belligerent ideology that does not go in the direction of peace in the middle east. europe is now strongly engaged in the middle east and diplomatic missions are being sent at a rapid pace. the call for a reopening of the dialogue with syria on the association agreement is part of this prevention strategy, because a new conflict in this region could be even more devastating. let's not dream. syria will not separate from iran on trade, but it claims, through its highest instances, to be ready to distance itself from iran on the peace in the middle east. this is a big step. it is a country with a strong and hard regime and with insufficient respect for human rights, and my report addresses these problems without any ambiguity. however, syria is a large country, with a high culture, which must be treated with respect, dignity and frankness. it could be a stabilizing force in the middle east and we need it. mr siniora, when he was here, already put forward the hypothesis of a solution concerning the farms of shebaa. there are other possible elements of conciliation. i'm advocating that we open absolutely all doors. and i thank my colleagues from all parties for their valuable help in drafting this recommendation.
president, madam president-in-office of the council, if press freedom is restricted in a poor african country, the council is there to condemn it in the strongest possible terms and threaten it with sanctions. in the case of china, people are simply expressing their concern. it looks very strong on two sizes and two weights. my question is specific: are you going to re-schedule the violation of press freedom in china at the next eu-china summit ? secondly: what very concrete measures are you going to take to ensure that the freedom of the press and human rights in general are respected in china?
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, let me first of all thank mrs schroedter for the long and excellent work she has done on this report, and in particular for her search for the widest possible consensus on a text which is important in more than one way. it also recalled the useful work carried out by a large majority of members of this parliament in the debate and vote on the draft directive on services. this is useful because by voting in favour of fundamental amendments which ensure absolute respect for the competences and subjects covered by the posting of workers directive, parliament guaranteed the essential role that the directive must play at a time when we are experiencing and will experience a sharp increase in the provision of services and an increase in the mobility of workers in the eu-25. the text also guaranteed - and i believe that was the unanimous view of the members of the committee on employment and social affairs - our competence in matters which are our responsibility by law. a directive that is well understood, well applied and whose effects are well controlled must strike the right balance between fair competition and guarantees of respect for workers' rights. the rules of the game must be strict and fair. they must also ensure transparency and security for workers, both in the provision of services and in the freedom of movement. a well-understood directive requires a major effort of explanation, administrative simplification and information. a well-implemented directive must clearly enforce the right to free movement and the principles of equal treatment and pursue the objectives of harmonizing working conditions and social systems. a directive with well-controlled effects is a major tool in the fight against anti-european sentiments that can be generated in the population by the presence of workers treated as mere commodities displaced at leisure and exploited under the lowest conditions.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and for her willingness to listen. i can tell you that my group has already decided that this is a balanced report. the commissioner, my group, wants to encourage you with this report to take measures to ensure that the secondment directive is respected on the ground. we are not asking for a revision of the directive, because the legislation itself is quite good, but we all know that in practice workers who work temporarily in another country are often ruthlessly exploited and we think that this exploitation must stop. and that is why there must be more cooperation between the inspection services of the different member states. we therefore ask the commission to ensure that a well-functioning network of inspection services is established. the flow of information on rights and obligations to workers and businesses must also be improved, commissioner, and our group is very pleased with your promise to set up a well-documented website, to launch uniform forms and to exchange good practice. another point, commissioner, on the guidelines that the commission has launched as a result of the fact that this parliament has successfully avoided the services directive undermining the posting of workers directive. i would ask the commissioner not to confuse attempts to simplify administration, which we wholeheartedly support, with attempts to question the requirements for monitoring and control. we therefore continue to defend, commissioner, that member states should retain the right to require the appointment of a representative of the firm, but also to make requirements in relation to documents and registration systems. we must work together to put an end to bureaucracy and exploitation.
in writing. directive 96/71/ec on the posting of workers is an important milestone in european labour law. the schroedter report highlights the problems of the application of the directive and thus responds to a commission communication, which was promised in 2004 but only published in april 2006. in this context, the commission is seeking to limit the control measures available to the member states by relying on judgments of the court of justice. the schroedter report redraws the balance between economic liberalisation and social protection. for example, certain administrative measures (e.g. social inspection of the situation of the selfemployed, collective agreements) can no longer be regarded as restricting the free movement of workers on the labour markets of the european union, as the court of justice has also ruled. the minimum wage, working conditions and health and safety at work and the host country principle are important instruments in preventing social dumping and unfair competition. they also ensure fair treatment of employees and service providers. the neoliberal course which europe has been following for years now is being given a more social twist by this report. the european parliament must take up its responsibility for the social protection of workers and that is why i support the schroedter report.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr weber, and mr kallas, and especially the court of auditors for the report. i think it's a good and solid document. i think the editorial staff is also getting better. it is clearly written and uses the technique of naming and shaming, which i particularly appreciate. we are facing a special discharge because this is the first financial year that fully works with the union of 25 after enlargement. it is also the first financial year to fall entirely under the responsibility of the present european commission. in that sense, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i am a little surprised, astonished, even shocked by the rather defensive speech which mr kallas made here today. i am a little shocked because at the hearing, when he took the oath, he was the very man who said that under his rule a positive declaration of trust would finally be made. and what do we see now? the court's criticism of important parts of the budget remains. mr kallas will defend himself with a report from the house of lords which is very worth reading - i also read it last night. but that is not the way to do it. i read, mr kallas, in the court of auditors' report very specific things. i read, for example, that the integrated administration and control system for agriculture works perfectly for those member states which apply it. greece does not. that was already in the court of auditors' report last year and that was an important part of mr mulder's discharge last year. and what have you been doing in the meantime? what have you done to bring order to greece? i read in the same report from the court of auditors that there are serious problems with export refunds. in denmark and the netherlands, exporters can seal their lorries without the presence of customs officers. what have you done to counteract that? these are concrete questions and you do not have to be defensive here. i have two specific questions for mr weber. the first question is: you addressed the council on economic and financial affairs on 7 november. have you finally made it clear to the ministers that it is absolutely necessary for them to sign off on their accounts? and are you going to respond to the house of lords' request that there should actually be a blacklist of member states that are badly dealing with the european budget, with european funds? i would like to have an answer to those two questions, mr weber.
in writing. in january 2005, the european parliament approved my report on the european environment and health action plan 2004-2010 by a very large majority. among the recommendations made was the phasing out of certain chemicals which, like mercury used in dental amalgams and in non-electronic monitoring devices, are of high concern to human health. and they need to be replaced by safer alternatives. the 33 tonnes of mercury used annually in the european union are, like other heavy metals, a cause of neurological diseases, particularly affecting children. a public health imperative must now prevail in our chemically pervasive societies! i therefore regret that 327 of my colleagues, contrary to the opinion of our rapporteur, mrs sornosa, have decided to limit the prohibitions on the placing on the market of articles (thermometers, barometers) containing mercury and intended for the general public. tomorrow, however, we will have to go further and require the 25 member states to take ambitious measures to remove mercury in all its forms from sensitive public places such as maternity wards, day nurseries, hospitals and schools.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, in writing these few lines on your work programme, i wanted, in the short time available to me, to recall the motto of the draft constitutional treaty, the union 'united in diversity', because i believe that in the current international and european political context we need unity more than diversity in the european union. we need unity and it is the commission in particular which must be the standard-bearer of that unity. i also believe that, in view of the council's present weakness due to its divisions - i am thinking, for example, of the failure of the directive on the organization of working time - we do not expect the commission to anticipate the divisions in the council but to be vigilant in the proposals it has to make to us. when we do not achieve our objectives, the performance commitments we have given ourselves, we must not reduce or dilute them, but demand more resources, and in that case i think you will have the support of parliament. i would like to give an example of the subject on which my group has probably worked most during the last two and a half years, namely climate, energy and transport. we have submitted to your office and those of your colleagues an energy policy scenario which would enable us to achieve a 30% reduction in co2 and greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. mr barroso, the european union must fulfil its commitments under the kyoto protocol, but at present it is not doing so. that is why we believe that a binding mechanism should be set up, by reference to the one we know about budgetary discipline: that is, the european union should give itself obligations to achieve results, but also sufficient resources. that is why we believe that the system for trading emission allowances must be improved, coordinated by the commission and accompanied by sanctions for member states which do not meet their own targets. in the field of renewable energy, we believe that the commission should propose sectoral targets and not just general targets. in the field of energy efficiency we expect the commission to propose a revision of the building directive to cover all buildings and as mrs grossetête has said, you know very well that this is also a creator of economic activity! in other words, in the area of climate, energy and transport, we must reduce emissions, we must reduce dependence on energy imports and we must reduce risks. the continuation of our fight against nuclear energy is part of this concern. finally, we must prepare for kyoto 2 in nairobi. i would like to mention another example where european unity must be manifested: the imperative need to establish common minimum social standards at european level. we cannot renege on that commitment. that is why we want a framework directive on services of general interest to be proposed by your commission.
i read in the work programme, mr president, that the commission wants to listen more to the citizens, and i quote, to involve them more in the policy process. the dutch cabaret performer wim sonneveld is reported to have said: i'm going to break my leg. i would remind the commission that the european citizens of whom it speaks have already made their views clear, for example on the so-called european constitution, and that they have even rejected this project in the netherlands and france by means of referendums, and that the commission only a few weeks ago reaffirmed that the essence of that constitution - whatever the citizen may think about it - must in any case be preserved intact. listen to my words about citizen participation, but don't look at my actions. and, by the way, i do not find anything in the document that refers to the petition by a million european citizens against the european parliament's millions-eating travel circus. i know that, strictly speaking, the council must be asked to do something about this, but from the commission, which is involved in everything and everything and whose own budget is, moreover, under attack year after year by the court of auditors, this should have been a signal that the european citizens are thoroughly fed up with the euroville games and the euroville privileges. we must not keep this secret any longer. and then again on the opinion of the citizen. it is an undeniable fact that the european citizens are rejecting accession negotiations with non-european turkey in a particularly massive manner, and yet these negotiations are simply being continued, no doubt also after december. this is proof that the so-called 'open outcome' of the negotiations is nothing but a blatant fraud and that the eurocracy, including the commission, has long ago decided that turkish accession will be shoved mordicus down the throat of the supposedly well-informed european citizen. finally, a final remark on an important matter, on so-called economic immigration and on the idea that new immigrants should be attracted, which will not be left to a few highly qualified people if it is up to the commission. this view has just been confirmed by the president of the commission himself. the absurdity of the idea that mass immigration of non-europeans is economically profitable in order to mitigate the effects of the demographic situation in europe has been demonstrated for some time. the immigration we know in the flesh is an immigration of illiteracy, of uneducatedness and on top of that of non-assimilable religions and cultures. in short, we are importing more unemployment, more uprooting and we are importing the consequences of all that, namely crime, slums and de facto apartheid. this also leads to enormous economic costs. i am therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the community.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the commission on having chosen a communication policy as a priority and, above all, on having already implemented it within parliament. i would like to say that in the field of foreign affairs we have constant, constructive contacts with the commission. this makes the commission's programme on foreign policy and human rights all the more appalling. indeed, i would say that communication in this respect is elliptical and almost subliminal. radio silence over the mediterranean. so what about the spirit of barcelona and the concept of an alliance of civilizations? nothing or very little on policy towards africa, beyond development policy. the european parliament is engaged in the construction of eurolat. and last but not least, the total absence of reference to our human rights policy, which is our trademark image abroad and for which we have just obtained a specific instrument. in this respect, it can be assumed that the termination of the action programmes with israel, moldova and ukraine will give rise to difficult negotiations, which the communication does not mention. finally, foreign policy as represented here seems to be more a matter of the european union's bilateral relations with certain countries than of regional policy or policy of large groups. so all this lacks a little ambition, attraction, breath and it is a pity for the citizen.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, already at the first vote in the committee on the internal market we decided on the services directive to exclude gambling activities, including lotteries and betting, from the scope of this directive. and some - i refer to what mr manders has just said - may not be able to make up their minds. i am sure that many felt that there was a good deal of room for manoeuvre for the member states to deal with this complex matter in their own way, in accordance with their own traditions, and in a way that suited their own sensitivities and the situation in their own countries. it goes without saying that the member states must respect the treaty in this respect and we know some of the court's answers to some of the questions referred earlier. i hope, commissioner, that the questions which remain will not prompt you to advise the commission to take regulatory action. the commission is, of course, the guardian of the treaty and we too expect it to take its role seriously, but it can also do so with some restraint. the functioning of the internal market is in every respect necessary and positive, but it does not have to be in conflict with the need to ensure adequate protection of public policy, consumer safety and mental health. i hope, therefore, that there will be room for those member states which, whether through state monopolies or not, are committed to channelling the gambling spirit, to ensuring the fairness of gambling and to allocating the financial proceeds, if they wish and if they can, to cultural, social and sporting purposes. clear legal rules can certainly help, but legislation is not always necessary. i am certainly not speaking for the group, but i am speaking for a number of colleagues from the group who were not able to speak here tonight.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have succeeded in turning a proposal which was far too horizontal in its scope, far too radical in its deregulation drive and unrealistic in its enforcement into a directive which does what it is supposed to do, namely to remove the barriers to establishment and to crossborder activities for service providers and thus to promote the effective exercise by all, including smes, of the fundamental rights of the treaty. despite the very different starting positions, not only between the groups but also within the groups, and clearly also between the member states, and despite many widespread misunderstandings about the content and impact of the proposal, we have managed to achieve a balanced and responsible final result, all by listening to each other, listening to the people and working together constructively. we are also working to ensure that the internal market is more open to services, more growth and more jobs, without compromising consumer and other social protection. we have proved institutionally that european democracy works and that parliament takes its responsibility. and in legal terms, even if not everything is perfectly formulated, we do add value by providing more legal certainty. i hope, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that we will keep to the voting procedure and that we will be able to rally behind the common position with a very large majority, which in the end is a good reflection of the compromise we have worked out ourselves. i would also like to express my appreciation to all those with whom we have had the opportunity to work over the past two years, not only the political leaders of the three institutions but also the staff.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make two comments. i would like to emphasize that the eight amendments tabled by our group were voted by parliament at first reading with sufficient majorities. this clearly shows that the council's common position does not fully reflect the text of parliament. the second point i would like to make is that before we jump into the historical significance of the directive, we should be careful. i would remind you that this directive will be transposed by all the member states by 2009 at the latest and that the first evaluation report by the commission will not be presented to the european parliament until 2010. we shall therefore have to see what the actual scope of this text is in the various member states after the evaluation procedure provided for in article 39 of the directive. i urge those who promise us better days and talk about millions of new jobs to be careful: let us not make promises to the citizens of europe that we are not sure we can keep. i would like to conclude by saying a few words about the general philosophy behind this proposal: our group has been in favour of the free provision of services and in particular the free provision of crossborder services. but at the same time we have always insisted on the need for full guarantees in terms of working conditions and the prohibition of illegal work, and for these conditions to be respected throughout the union. in this respect, mr maccreevy, i welcome your statement, but it only commits the commission in office politically. but in 2010 it will be another commission.
i would like to thank mrs gebhardt and all the colleagues with whom i have worked for so many months on this directive, because thanks to this cooperation, and of course also thanks to the mobilization of trade unions and ngos, we now have a services directive on the table which fully respects labour legislation, collective agreements, social rights and consumer rights. we should be happy about that. i am also glad that a number of sensitive sectors are not covered by this directive, namely social services, health services and temporary employment agencies, because they obviously need stricter rules without which they cannot be simply handed over to the free provision of services. i am grateful that the european parliament has been closely followed in the council's common position. the members who have said that there are a number of ambiguities in the council's common position, mr president-in-office, are of course right, and i myself and a number of members would like to correct this by means of a number of amendments. because i still think that's our job as legislators: the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do think that the legal significance of the commission's interpretation is limited, but i am very grateful to the commission for its interpretation, because i think it has a strong political significance. the commission's political commitment, mr commissioner, is something which i and my colleagues will certainly and firmly remind this commission and the commissions that follow. it is also up to us to ensure that in our future legislative work we have greater legal certainty for social and health services.
in writing. the council's common position largely takes account of the fundamental amendments tabled by parliament at first reading. the areas excluded are clearly defined and concern mainly health services, audiovisual services, etc. the principle of country of origin has been removed and the labour laws and social agreements of the respective countries are respected. but also the market access for our companies has been facilitated by the elimination of many arbitrary harassment. the commission's comments have also provided clarity. the overall result of the negotiations must therefore be considered a success for parliament and for economic and social policy. of course, every compromise has its weaknesses, and some council amendments are not entirely clear. it would be wrong, however, to call into question the overall very positive result by having a new discussion in the council.
in writing. i voted in favour of the services directive, a revised, revised and revised text, the fruit of broad compromises, which opens up the services market in europe. i voted for this text with the overwhelming majority of parliament, about four fifths of its members. the opening up of the services market will be positive for our economies, will help to combat undeclared work and will guarantee better social protection for all european workers. the oecd estimates that the directive will create two and a half million jobs in europe and, until proven otherwise, creating jobs is still the best social policy! the argument of those who have none is that the system is being demonized. it is amusing to note that only a small number of the socialist camp, including the french-speaking belgians, still refuse this compromise accepted by all, including the trade unions! parliament and the council have played their part and proved those who have continually demonized this text wrong. the current system preserves the best of the european social model and recognises the specific nature of services of general interest. the co-legislators have twisted the neck of lies and given europe a chance to grow!
in writing. the council's common position on the services directive as it is put to the vote today is an improvement on the commission's original proposal, but some points remain unacceptable. the text creates legal uncertainty. the legislation applicable and the extent to which member states may impose national provisions are not clearly defined. the possibility of upward harmonisation is not included. the revision clause also opens the door to reintroducing the principle of the country of origin and to adding services to the scope of the directive which are now excluded. services of general economic interest are covered by the directive and, in the absence of a framework directive on services of general interest, this directive threatens to constitute a horizontal framework for services of general economic interest. i also regret that the initially indicative list of social services excluded from the directive has been converted into a restrictive list. the absence of any reference to the charter of fundamental rights is also disappointing. finally, i am particularly displeased at the capitulation of the ep in pursuing to the full the achievements of the first reading. this undermines the future of a democratic and social europe.
mr president, more than 300 people have been killed in palestine since june! in diplomatic terms, we're talking about a disproportionate response. what disproportion? one israeli killed for every ten palestinians during this second intifada, one percent since the lebanon war. so there's no equidistance, but each of these deaths is useless. but today the highest international bodies, the un and the quartet, are like titans to the united states. let europe, therefore, take a unanimous and strong stand, as it did in lebanon, as indeed parliament's joint resolution does today! it is therefore necessary to use all the political instruments at its disposal, including the association agreement with israel, to put an end to the violence. this violence condemns all palestinians to death, but it also condemns israeli democracy. it puts an end to israeli democracy, whose government has just joined forces with a xenophobic partner who supports the theses of ethnic cleansing. we should not be more afraid than those israelis who write to us today expressing their indignation at these massacres, invoking justice and international law; i am thinking in particular of the courageous signers of the manifesto published by the main israeli human rights associations, who are calling for an end to the blockade of gaza. that is why i call for the lifting of the blockade of gaza and the resumption of aid to palestine and support for the government of national unity that is about to be established. this is a victory for the moderates against the extremists of all stripes. i am also concerned about the possible use by the israelis in this dirty war of new weapons of destruction, the use of which has already been suspected in lebanon, and i ask that an international investigation be launched in this regard. i support the idea of an international peace conference bringing together all the actors in the middle east, including syria and iran, and i call, as did the haaretz newspaper editorial, for an international intervention force to be sent to gaza. finally, i urge the european union to seize every opportunity for peace in this explosive situation - death and hunger are not a breeding ground for peace! we may not have all the responsibility in this crisis, but we do. i dare say that we have contributed to the chaos in palestine by prematurely cutting off aid to palestine and by setting up an intermediary mechanism which took a long time to implement. we have our own work to do, but we have mistakes to correct and a responsibility to assume.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the questions of weapons of mass destruction and arms control have become central to the european union's common foreign and security policy. however, multilateral arms control and disarmament activities have faced major challenges and achieved limited results in recent years. the need for a change in this trend is very great. the third review conference of the convention on conventional arms is currently under way in geneva. this conference, together with the sixth review conference of the biological weapons convention (bwc) to be held in mid-november, will both provide an opportunity to demonstrate that the international community is capable of responding effectively to today's arms control and disarmament challenges. the civilian population is all too often the victim of weapons covered by the convention on the prohibition of conventional weapons, known as the ccw. the burden of clearing unexploded war remains an ever-increasing burden on the international community. the universalisation of the fifth protocol on non-explosive remnants of war and its effective implementation require the work of all of us. the european union welcomed the entry into force of the protocol during the review conference. the protocol on unexploded ordnance of war was drawn up in response to the humanitarian threat posed to civilians by unexploded conventional munitions, including cargo munitions, after the end of war. recent events in southern lebanon are a reminder of the dangers posed to civilians by unexploded war debris, in particular by mortars, and the difficulty and cost of removing it. we must act immediately. the eu has therefore proposed that the expert level work on the ccw be continued in 2007. the current mandate includes the development of the technical characteristics of different types of ammunition in a preventive manner, in order to reduce the humanitarian risk they pose. in addition, several member states of the european union have joined the proposal at national level to start negotiations on a legally binding protocol to respond to the humanitarian dangers posed by live ammunition. however, the member states of the european union do not share a common position on the specific treatment limited to cargo ammunition under the ccw. this morning, the review conference agreed to strengthen the union's position on live ammunition and decided to propose the setting up of an expert group. it is intended to prepare recommendations on further measures to deal with loaded ammunition in the context of the convention on conventional weapons. in the five years of negotiations on anti-vehicle mines, the eu has consistently stressed that our aim is a legally binding protocol that reinforces and adds value to international humanitarian law. it seems unlikely that the minutes will be agreed at the review conference. for more than 30 years, the biological weapons convention has served as the normative and legal cornerstone of biological disarmament and non-proliferation. biosciences are one of the fastest-growing fields of science today, with unlimited potential for both good and evil. the ban must be able to adapt to scientific developments and meet the challenges it poses. the review conferences provide an opportunity for this. the european union has made comprehensive preparations for the sixth review conference of the btwc in line with the objectives of the eu strategy on mass destruction. these objectives include, in particular, the universalisation of the convention, the enhancement of national implementation and compliance with the convention and the strengthening of the convention. the council adopted a common position on the sixth review conference in february this year. the union's position balances a realistic and ambitious approach, but calls for a comprehensive review of the agreement and for practical improvements in its implementation. in addition to the common position, the union has prepared thematic working papers on a number of subjects. in addition to joint actions, the european union has agreed on an action plan for the biological weapons convention. in this context, the member states committed themselves to taking action to strengthen the agreement, such as the annual notification of confidence-building measures. these concrete actions will add credibility to the key objectives set out in the eu common position on the review conference on the btwc. the conditions for a review conference on the convention on conventional arms control are good, though perhaps not optimal. we are, however, optimistic about the success of the conference. the sixth review conference on the prohibition of biological weapons also has every chance of a successful outcome.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, weapons of mass destruction are potentially the greatest threat to european security and, in terms of the ability to inflict mass casualties, the weapons of most concern are clearly nuclear and biological. while we all carry with us the collective memory of the horrors of hiroshima and nagasaki, there are no equivalent common images for biological weapons. mass death from biological agents, or diseases like the plague, appear by contrast to be part of ‘ancient history’ or science fiction. we must hope that it stays that way, but we cannot be complacent. consider the following. firstly, unlike nuclear weapons, biological weapons are not dependent on limited supplies of weapons-grade uranium and plutonium. the rapid development and dissemination of biosciences is bringing weapons capabilities within reach of those who could do us harm. the danger that humans, animals or plants might be attacked by biological agents is a real one. secondly, official reports suggest that terrorists are seeking bio-weapons. if terrorists were to start biological attacks across europe, many lives would be at risk and our lifestyle could change dramatically. thirdly, biological weapons have been used in the recent past. the anthrax attacks in the united states in late 2001 killed few people but caused significant, wider social and political disruption, and the perpetrators remain at large. how protected are we today? all use and possession of biological weapons has been prohibited since the biological weapons convention came into force in 1975. however, this convention is the weakest of the regimes addressing weapons of mass destruction. it has no provision for verification of compliance or implementation, and, unlike the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and the chemical weapons convention, there is no central institution with oversight. furthermore, there are fewer parties to the convention than to either of those two treaties. our security would be enhanced, therefore, if the effectiveness of the biological and toxic weapons convention could be strengthened and its implementation improved. state parties should be encouraged to address these weaknesses at the forthcoming review conference later this month. good security starts at home. my colleague, commissioner frattini, is well aware of the need for action. the commission is examining potential responses through a common framework approach. national responses to biological threats are clearly insufficient. alongside the work on strengthening public health and medical surveillance and response, we will be issuing a green paper on european bio-preparedness in spring 2007. disaster and disease do not respect borders. the issue of bio-threats is one where internal and external policies are inextricably linked. much can be achieved through better international collaboration and coordination. we will aim to share best practice on bio-preparedness: by helping to protect others, we will better protect ourselves. i would also like to say a few words on a very different type of deadly weapon. unexploded cluster ammunition represents a threat to human security and sustainable development. such munitions kill innocent people every day and 30% of those killed are children. they represent major challenges, both politically and to daily life in former war zones. a review conference is currently under way. it will see protocol v to the convention, on ‘explosive remnants of war’ – i.e. failed explosive ordnance, ammunition or sub-munitions from cluster bombs, – enter into force. the implementation of this protocol, intended to eradicate the threat that such legacies of war pose to populations, will be a welcome step forward. the events in lebanon this summer highlighted the issue, particularly in view of the high failure rate of the cluster sub-munitions employed. helping lebanon in the difficult task of clearing these deadly remnants of war is important and we have contributed some eur 5 million to the task. we also support the need to focus more attention on strengthening and ensuring compliance with international humanitarian law in this area. commission assistance and cooperation in humanitarian disarmament – that is to say mine action, clearing the explosive remnants of war and fighting the illicit spread of small arms – all have a positive impact on improving human security. they contribute to the sustainability of our development policies. we are grateful for the support of the european parliament in these efforts.
president, the production and use of biological weapons used to be the prerogative of states. today, advances in biotechnology mean that fewer and fewer resources are needed to produce dangerous viruses, bacteria and poisons. so terrorist organizations could also resort to biological warfare. interpol noted in march of this year that there were serious indications that al-qaeda was preparing to commit acts of biological terrorism. the devastation that could be wrought in this way is far greater than that of the attacks in new york, madrid and london. you can't make treaties with terrorists the way states make treaties with each other. it is of great importance that the police services continue to be trained in preventing and combating bioterrorism. legislation may need to be adjusted here and there to control sensitive scientific research. the exchange of information between intelligence services within the european union, but also with our partners in the united states, russia and all other nations willing to take responsibility in the fight against terrorism, remains a focus.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wish to begin by warmly congratulating mr von wogau on his excellent report, which offers an accurate and comprehensive survey of the current line of thinking of the committee on foreign affairs and the subcommittee on security and defence. i also want to thank him for the efforts he made to reach the broadest possible agreement with the other political groups. while this clearly means that my group will approve the report, i would like to stress two particular points. the first point is the need to ensure effective parliamentary control, both at national and eu levels. the eu, as has been said, is currently engaged in a growing number of military and civilian operations in various parts of the world. i insist on the need for parliament to be continually updated and to be informed and consulted whenever a new operation is being contemplated. until now, all these operations have gone well, but it is entirely possible that one day a major incident will occur and there will then be widespread clamour for parliamentary oversight. secondly, much greater clarification of the respective roles and responsibilities of the commission, the high representative, the council and the member states is also needed. who pays what is too often decided on a case-by-case basis, which again makes oversight difficult. this is conducive to overlap and waste and, worst of all, also leads to outright competition between, for instance, the council’s special envoys and the commission’s delegations. both the council and the commission will of course deny this is the case, but a number of us know better, even if, luckily, such competition is not the general rule. finally, what is needed most of all is political will on the part of member state governments and that, alas, is an entirely different story.
president, commissioner, the most vulnerable groups in human trafficking are women and children. unfortunately, the world of sport is not always free in this respect either. more and more, professional sports clubs are resorting to recruiting younger and younger players, especially from africa, because of course they have to pay little or nothing for it. these players are often dumped on the road and then they end up in the underground. there's not enough attention for that. in our draft report on the future of professional football in europe, we expressly ask the commission to address this in the context of the council framework decision on the fight against trafficking in human beings. the decision, commissioner, makes it clear that the exploitation of children is a criminal offence and we therefore want the member states to impose strict penalties for this. in this context, may i remind you of the agreements reached at the european summit in the hague two years ago. the european council then recommended that a european plan be drawn up with a view to developing common standards, best practices, etc. for preventing and combating trafficking in human beings. mr frattini, the situation is becoming more urgent, more acute, because some professional football clubs are planning to circumvent the so-called home grown measure and to get out of the way by bringing in younger and younger players. and by going here, i mean western europe, europe in general. this often happens to their entire family, leaving them to fend for themselves. i would also like to say that we fully support the home grown measure, which has already been introduced by uefa, because it is beneficial for the training of young footballers. moreover, the first discussions here in the committees show that there is broad support for home grown in parliament. we must absolutely exclude the risk of this measure being eroded and i therefore urge you to support the amendment which i have tabled with the rapporteur in this connection. i would like to ask the members of this house, of course, but also the commission and the ministers.
the report rightly points out that the citizens must also be heard, but unfortunately it does not propose any concrete solutions. it seems to be assumed that better communication policy can only come about if there is more europe, hence the call for the european constitution and for pan-european political parties. it seems that the lessons of the french and dutch referendums have not been learned. i admit, of course, that it is difficult to get the citizens excited about a communication policy when the rest of the policy is going against the majority of public opinion. i refer, for example, to the enlargement policy. it is well known that the vast majority of europeans are against the accession of a non-european country such as turkey. the commission and the council are not concerned about this. we can communicate as much as we want, but that will not change the gap that exists between public opinion on the one hand and the european institutions on the other. the report points out that the commission's information offices do not arouse the interest of the public. that is a euphemism. in flanders, for example, the largest party in the country, the vlaams belang, has not been invited to any of the debates on european issues held in the provinces. these were peer debates, because the only party that is critical of enlargement policy and of the constitution was not allowed to participate. in fact, commissioner wallström has openly admitted this discrimination in the belgian federal parliament. in my country, therefore, the so-called european communication is nothing more than propaganda which is not taken seriously by anyone and which has no credibility whatsoever. in other words, it's money thrown away.
mr president, a white paper on european communication policy is a good idea. what a thought to have waited so long! this is perhaps the only positive effect of the rejection of the constitution in france and the netherlands. it will have put europe's leaders face to face with their enormous responsibilities in terms of communication. europe does not suffer from a democratic deficit, the trial is unfair, but from a deficit of information, explanation, adjusted communication, interactive and understandable. i am glad that this white paper has been produced, but i am sorry that it is limited to questions and principles. there is no longer any need to talk about forums, consultations, surveys, networks and wondering what action to take - it must be taken. the three main points of this document are, in my view, points 23, 24 and 32. it is in schools that the battle for european citizenship is won. we experience it every day in our meetings with the students. it is in higher education that, thanks to erasmus, the true citizens of europe are cultivated, who are familiar with our cultures and our differences, and it is with the traditional media, i do not believe in the alternative media, that we must work to highlight the daily value of our activities and to decode the added value of our legislation. i conclude by saying, mr president, that this challenge is immense and that this debate is essential, because the real threat in europe today is not scepticism but indifference. and our weapon against it is communication.
mr president, since we had some difficulties last time with rollcall votes, i wanted to know why we had a rollcall vote today, which is not on my voting list anyway.
mr president, i think there is a little confusion. the second part of paragraph 44 was indeed voted on, whereas the first part of paragraph 44 could be read on the screen. so maybe there was some confusion.
in writing. i voted against this resolution on gaza. this is in no way to minimize the tragedy of beit hanoun 19 palestinian victims, because of a badly adjusted israeli shot. the mistake led to the tragedy, and it's up to us to expose it. this tragedy does not, however, give us the right to vote on the most unbalanced resolution i have seen in this parliament in the seven years i have been here. it is impossible for me to list here all the arguments in favour and against in this text. overall, it's a one-sided charge against israel. in paragraph 4 there is hardly any reference to the inalienable right of this country to its security. the other thing is that the qassam rocket rain that falls daily on israeli cities is not a word. for gilad shalit, kidnapped over three months ago, three words, no more! hidden in the back of paragraph 19, and no mention of his comrades kidnapped in lebanon. some of the moments of the debate were even hateful, when it was mentioned "the israeli society, rude and racist", about "dead palestinians who were worth less than dead israelis"... everything seems to be allowed today, and the line between anti-israel and anti-semitic speech is crossed without anyone stumbling. this is unbearable.
member of the commission. mr president, after the post-2005 election crisis the commission, in close cooperation with the eu member states and the international community, undertook efforts to defuse tensions and urged the ethiopian government to restore confidence in the democratisation process through the release of political detainees. the eu, in line with the international donor community, has given priority to maintaining an open and structured dialogue with the ethiopian government as the most appropriate way towards improving the situation. following a visit to key political detainees, commissioner michel received commitments from prime minister meles zenawi during a dialogue in february that they would get a short and fair trial. president barroso met prime minister zenawi in addis ababa last october to express the commission’s concerns about the trial and the prisoners. president barroso pointed out that he expected the trial to be speedy, fair and transparent. he also stressed that he did not consider a trial to be an appropriate response to the ethiopian political differences. instead, he suggested reconciliation and dialogue as the only way forward in building confidence. when two members of the commission delegation were arrested and expelled from ethiopia and a local employee of the delegation was arrested, president barroso, commissioner michel and eu member states immediately expressed their deep concern at these events, which clearly breached the vienna convention. the commission strongly refuted the accusation against the commission delegation and its staff. the commission headquarters expressed its support and solidarity with the delegation staff and we were satisfied that this immediate and strong reaction resulted in the release of the arrested local agent on bail. there have been some doubts as to the wisdom of inviting prime minister zenawi to the european development days. the commission believes that dialogue and further efforts have to be pursued to convey eu concerns to the ethiopian government and to obtain commitments on democratic reforms and good governance. the meetings and debates planned for the european development days will provide an opportunity to convey these messages directly and express our deep concerns.
mr president, bangladesh, a land of democratic traditions, respect for human rights, an independent judiciary and a free press, is today being ravaged by the rise of violent islamist extremism. the latest reporters without borders report reveals hundreds of violations of press freedom. this year alone, three journalists have been killed, at least 95 others assaulted and dozens if not hundreds of correspondents have been forced to flee after being intimidated for articles deemed "un-islamic". the reason why i wanted parliament to express itself urgently on this matter today is that salah choudhury is currently on trial in dhaka for sedition. the journalist, editor of the weekly blitz, is a staunch supporter of a moderate islam that advocates openness, inter-religious dialogue and recognition by his country of the state of israel. for these reasons and for these reasons alone, he now faces the death penalty. we will urge the commission to monitor the proceedings of this trial to ensure that the rights of the defence and the international conventions on freedom of the press are respected. and since i have a few more seconds, i would like to support the efforts of the interim government to ensure that the process of preparing for the elections also meets international democratic standards: the establishment of a proper electoral register, a truly independent electoral commission and, i come back to this again, the balance and freedom of the media during the election campaign. it is known that the four private television stations in the country have difficulty in presenting a view other than that of the government if they intend to keep their licenses. two terrorist leaders have been arrested in bangladesh, and the disarmament of islamist militias who are trying to put pressure on voters on the eve of the elections must continue. we expect the government to confirm this commitment as well.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission shares parliament’s concerns and welcomes the opportunity to discuss bangladesh today. the country is at a critical juncture of its fragile democracy. much is at stake with the forthcoming elections in this densely populated country. regrettably, however, the institutional framework and the acrimonious relations between the two main political parties do not bode well for a peaceful and democratic electoral process. over the last weeks and months, the commission and the seven member states with representations in dhaka, as well as the wider international community, have been intensely engaged with the main party leaders and election stakeholders, urging all of them to agree on an electoral framework that achieves the trust of all parties. the eu regional troika in february, local eu presidency representatives and several high-level visits from the commission and member states have consistently emphasised the need for impartial guidance of the country by the caretaker government in the pre-electoral period, a neutral election commission, and a credible voter list. as you might be aware, commissioner ferrero-waldner has taken the political decision to deploy an eu election observation mission for these elections. preparation for the deployment of eu observers, including internal procedures between the institutions for financing the mission, are currently under way. in her letter to the president, or chief adviser, she underlines the above issues as the key concerns of the european union. the mission would be deployed around six weeks before election day, and it would remain in the country for some two to three weeks after that day, in order to follow the post-election period, particularly in the light of the unfortunate possibility of post-election violence, especially against minorities. the commission shares parliament’s concerns over the widespread violence against journalists. the fact that the latest report by reporters sans frontières categorises bangladesh as an extremely dangerous place for journalists unfortunately speaks for itself. the commission has consistently condemned the intimidation and high level of impunity that apply to violent acts against journalists in that country.
author. mr president, to say and repeat that the human rights situation in iran is a cause for concern is an understatement, since the theocratic regime in tehran is violating fundamental freedoms and rights. how can one not make a connection between the election in june 2005 of the conservative and denialist president mahmoud ahmadinejad and the growing repression and persecution of the arab, azeri, kurdish minorities, religious minorities - christians, jews, baha'is, sufis - but also homosexuals and women who are not a minority but who continue to be victims of multiple forms of discrimination? if i were to mention just two points in our resolution, i would first point out that iran holds the world record for the highest number of executions of young people, bread thieves, bicycle thieves and homosexuals. i would also remind you that the government has declared illegal the centre for the defence of human rights, co-founded by the 2003 nobel peace prize winner, mrs shirin ebadi. european diplomacy must be heard on such concrete cases. since the iranian government dares to claim that the death penalty by stoning no longer exists in the country, i also ask the commission to raise the case with tehran of the eleven people sentenced to be stoned, and i have here the names of the nine women and two men sentenced. we must now have proof from tehran and we must have action on our part.
president, ladies and gentlemen, the continuing refusal of turkey to comply with its international obligations under the customs agreement with the union and thus to allow cypriot vessels to enter its ports, but above all the european reaction to this, is the worst possible presumption for the future of europe, which we are discussing here today. turkey remains a country that does not respect basic human rights and ignores international commitments. it is a state which has consistently refused to reconcile with its neighbours cyprus and armenia and is already intimidating european member states. despite all this, the official europe still wants the negotiations to continue. turkey wants to be european, but it is turning to the united nations, in other words to the united states, in order to escape its european obligations. the eu's accession to the eu remains therefore excluded in the circumstances. if turkey is already drafting the law, what will it be if this country is allowed to sit at the negotiating table? the european union must send a strong signal and immediately halt the accession negotiations with ankara if it is to remain credible in the eyes of its citizens and secure its future.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this multi-faceted debate on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union. it has been a long and demanding process for these countries, but as has been stated in many speeches here and as commissioner rehnkin acknowledged to parliament, it is very important and significant that the support of the european union institutions for these countries has been very strong during this accession process. the reform process and the fulfilment of the obligations of eu membership continue in romania and bulgaria. it has been pointed out that because this is a demanding and long process, there is always the threat of a certain reform fatigue, reform fatigue, from time to time. it is therefore important that the support of the european union institutions and the european parliament to these countries and their reform process continues. at the same time, we must ensure - and the council has for its part undertaken - that if the need arises for safeguard clauses, we will not hesitate to use them. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank parliament for adopting a procedure for the election of the commissioners of the new member states which will enable the new commissioners to take up their duties as from 1 january, as required by the treaty of accession. the council considers it important that the commission, as a collegiate body, should be fully autonomous and fully operational from the first morning of enlargement. (applause) i would like to thank the
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank members for this very constructive and substantive debate. it is a very honourable way to welcome bulgaria and romania to the european union in the spirit of evolving european democracy. i want to use this last opportunity, at least this year, to discuss one or two issues, in particular concerning the hungarian minority in romania. we attach great importance to the protection of minorities, multiculturalism and multilingualism, which are core principles of the european union. over the years, the situation of the hungarian minority in romania has improved. there is always room for further improvement as regards the treatment of minorities and this applies to the current and future member states. for instance, in romania, we would welcome further progress concerning inter-ethnic relations within the police, among other things. some speakers raised the issue of the future of our enlargement policy. we will debate this at the december part-session. i just wish to point out to you that in its report of 8 november 2006, the commission called for a new consensus on the eu’s enlargement policy that would combine both the historic mission of extending the area of peace, freedom and democracy on our continent and, at the same time, ensuring our capacity to gradually integrate new members. in my view, it is necessary that we start to intensify our work for institutional reform. that is necessary for the functioning capacity of the current european union and, at the same time, it will also prepare the enlarged union in time for further steps in enlargement. the commission’s view is that a new institutional settlement should be reached before the next candidate country joins the european union. that means we trust that, as the european council outlined in june, the four presidencies over the next two years – the german, portuguese and slovenian presidencies, and the french presidency in the second half of 2008 – along with our member states, with the support of parliament and the commission, will be able to achieve a new interinstitutional settlement. it is a simple fact of timing that the year 2008 comes before the end of the decade when the 28th member state, which is likely to be croatia, could be ready to join our union, if it is able to reform its judiciary, economy and meet all the other conditions with full determination and concrete results. i very warmly welcome the debate that is to take place in december on our enlargement strategy and integration capacity.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the restructuring plan announced by volkswagen to the belgian company's works council and the press in november has a major social and economic impact within and beyond the company. first of all, i would like to express my very serious concern about the consequences that the implementation of this plan may have for several thousand workers and their families and for the economic and social environment of the company. restructuring is sometimes necessary to ensure the competitiveness and sustainability of firms and, ultimately, employment. i am aware of the need for volkswagen, as for many other european companies in this sector, to undergo restructuring. but it is important to ensure that this process is well anticipated and well managed in order to minimise the economic and social costs. for this reason, the commission adopted a communication on restructuring and employment in march 2005. this communication announced the main elements of a proactive strategy to which you fully subscribed, namely anticipation, partnership and coordination of policies and instruments. the commission has made every effort to use its own instruments since the announcement of the restructuring by volkswagen's management. i met with the members of the belgian government to express our solidarity and to stress the importance of respecting the rules of community law applicable, in particular the directives on information and consultation of workers' representatives. my colleague danuta hübner and i have also made known the availability of the commission services for a flexible use of financial support instruments, in particular the structural funds, to help workers affected by restructuring. the european social fund has demonstrated in the past how targeted and rapid action can help reintegrate workers made redundant as part of company restructuring into the labour market. the commission services were invited to participate in the crisis unit set up by the belgian authorities, which will examine, among other aspects, the practical possibilities for using the appropriations: either those remaining from the current programming expiring at the end of 2006, or those from the new programmes coming into force from 2007 onwards, for which there are more available. in any event, i can tell you that the commission is willing to be proactive and as flexible as possible in the use of the european budget. on 24 november, the commission held a meeting of its task force on restructuring set up in the wake of the march 2005 communication on restructuring and employment. the aim of the meeting was to mobilise all the instruments at its disposal in order to mitigate the impact of the restructuring measures taken in conjunction with the belgian authorities and to incorporate the developments in the automotive sector into a strategy for the future in europe. the automotive sector is vital for europe: it represents 3% of european gdp and employs 12 million people; it makes a significant contribution to the research and development effort; it creates a trade surplus with the rest of the world of about 25 billion euros annually. the automotive sector, like all other sectors of the economy, is facing profound changes. nevertheless, it has been able to adapt to the major changes it is facing. the figures i have just given are a good indication of this. apart from the specific case we are dealing with today, restructuring in the automobile sector is, in general, part of a necessary adaptation process. the commission, however, neither wants nor can substitute itself for the obligations and responsibilities of the company in the restructuring process under way. i have personally written to the president of the volkswagen group to express our concern and to ask him to do everything possible to minimise the economic and social costs of the announced restructuring. i reminded him of the need to ensure that the community directives on information and consultation of workers are respected in all the member states. these community texts provide for prior information and consultation of workers' representatives at the appropriate level on the transfer of production and the redundancies it entails. it is crucial to ensure that all information and all useful consultation is held at the appropriate level, both on economic decisions and on their employment consequences. i would also remind you that in 2003, in response to a commission consultation on this subject, the european social partners jointly developed reference guidelines for managing change and its social consequences. these reference guidelines state that the existence of a quality social dialogue in a climate of trust and a positive attitude towards change are important factors in avoiding or limiting negative social consequences. the implementation of these guidelines is essential to achieve the community's objectives of anticipating and accompanying change. the commission therefore again approached the european social partners in march 2005 to find effective ways of developing and implementing these guidelines across europe. i intend to meet with the representatives of the social partners in the near future to discuss with them how to move forward in this direction in a more rapid and effective manner. to return to the case which gave rise to this debate, it is now important to leave room for negotiation within the group undergoing restructuring. recent signs indicate that the relevant partners, management and workers' representatives, are engaging in a serious discussion on the industrial future of the various sites in europe, as well as on the social measures to be implemented. while maintaining its offer of support, the commission intends to respect the autonomy of the social dialogue which is beginning within the group. within its field of competence, the commission shall take the initiative and make available the means at its disposal. in the present circumstances, i hope nothing but firm commitment from all parties involved in this same direction.
i would like to welcome the employees of volkswagen vorst, the suppliers and their representatives. they are sitting in the gallery, and i would also like to express our sincere solidarity with them in these difficult circumstances. ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days it has been quite easy to proclaim that politics is powerless in cases like this. but that's a little short of what's called a curve. there are a number of important factors that can be controlled by politics. firstly, through a reliable and sound administration, the national government can create the necessary space to keep the burden on labour, in this case premiums, as low as possible and thus safeguard the competitiveness of our industry. but europe too, ladies and gentlemen, must take its responsibility. thousands of workers are losing their jobs and we are obliged to at least learn from this. europe, commissioner, has a unique opportunity here to show that it has a social face. the common european market, which is economic in nature, also requires a social dimension. that much is clear. and we must strengthen this social dimension in the short term. first, by ensuring that the workers affected are also eligible for support from the new european globalisation fund and that they receive it promptly. we christian democrats in this parliament are in full support of this interpretation of the fund and we count on the loyal support of the commission in this too, commissioner. the most important thing is that we do everything we can to ensure that the fund can start on time. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we must also work towards genuine participation by employees. the 1994 european directive must be evaluated anyway. it's in there. mr commissioner, you have already referred to the commission's communication of march last year. well, let's use the social drama of vw vorst to update the directive now. ladies and gentlemen, i firmly believe in the future of the european automobile industry, but then we must make the maximum effort and, i repeat, the president, on energy-efficient and 100% environmentally friendly cars. and i hope that the audi a1 will become one of those cars and that it will be produced in vorst, so that the survival of the vorst factory, despite the dark clouds that now hang over it, is guaranteed.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the volkswagen trade unionists in the european parliament this afternoon have told us that while their first priority is to get an industrial plan from the management of the car manufacturer, they also expect europe to put an end to the social and fiscal competition between member states which is dragging everyone down. almost ten years ago, the renault vilvorde workers told us the same thing. what's changed? mr špidla, i think your speech is completely inadequate. you speak of the autonomy of social dialogue, but you know very well that employers are reluctant to have such dialogue. we have instruments. the directive on the european works council must be strengthened. parliament asked you for this in march 2006. it is also necessary to create a legal framework at european level which allows for european collective bargaining at sectoral and group level. the commission must exercise greater control over state aid and community funds so that, as the cottigny and hutchinson report has already pointed out, they are not used for relocation within the european union. finally, a number of tax matters must be harmonized at european level. it is not enough to discuss a common base for european companies, we need a european minimum rate for corporate taxation. in these circumstances, we may be able to say something different to the workers here today and, i hope, tomorrow than we said when we had to deal with the renault case.
president, 4,000 people are being laid off at volkswagen in vorst, another 2,000 jobs are being lost at the suppliers... in my country, these are truly dark days for the workers affected and for their families. the belgian government of prime minister verhofstadt has reacted as it always does. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in a somewhat xenophobic reaction, prime minister verhofstadt even accused the germans of pursuing a kind of 'own people first' policy - which is the worst reproach one can get in my politically correct country - ignoring the fact that 20,000 jobs are being lost in germany too and that the social drama of vorst is actually only the temporary peak of a huge european crisis in the automobile industry for our country. let's face it, nobody has a miracle solution to what's going on in europe right now. but before blaming others, before shifting the blame onto others, our governments, and first of all the belgian government, must ask themselves whether they have done everything possible to save as many jobs as possible, today in vorst, but earlier at renault in vilvoorde, at dhl, at sabena and elsewhere. almost eight years after a government came to power in my country which said it would make the problem a priority, belgium still suffers from a wage gap of some 10% compared with its neighbours. this wage handicap is caused by a heavy tax burden. that is not the cause of what has happened, but it is one of the causes for which the belgian government is to be blamed. i am saying the belgian government, because there has long been political will in flanders to make our country attractive to investors again by means of a cocktail of economic measures and thus create employment. yes, we are also in favour of an efficient use of european funds in this matter, but there is no miracle solution and the proposals for more european bureaucracy are, in my view, even counterproductive. it is high time that we all realised that our material prosperity and employment will not be taken for granted, that international competition is only increasing and that we must really fight for every individual job with more flexibility, lower burdens and an entrepreneurial-friendly climate. we must think in particular of ways of supporting the competitiveness of our companies, including those from countries where there is little or no social protection.
i believe that the political world cannot stand by and watch this tragedy unfold. of course, the social consequences must be addressed, and if the globalisation fund is not designed to do this, i do not understand it. of course, social dialogue must work, mr špidla, but it has not. we need more for socialists. the european commission examines mergers to ensure that competition is not distorted, but it does not check that restructuring is carried out on the basis of objective and economic criteria. it seems to me that it is more intelligent and more useful to have a commissioner who is in charge of restructuring than a commissioner in charge of multilingualism. i ask the european parliament to support this idea. i am glad that the belgian government will take these ideas to the council in december. multinationals can't walk free. they are accountable.
mr president, commissioner, what we are witnessing today, in a spectacular way, with the brutal decision of volkswagen and its dramatic consequences, is in the end only the sunken part of this iceberg that floats on the ocean of free enterprise and free competition, which have become the watchword of this european union. every day, hundreds of jobs are being lost as a result of relocations and multiple restructurings, albeit more discreetly. and nothing, or very little, comes in parallel to support the industrial and social policies that are so badly handled on these occasions. this parliament, commissioner, has recently voted resolutions on relocations on the one hand and on the restructuring of companies on the other. when will the commission and the council have the decency to at least reply to us, to at least express a minimum of interest in these resolutions, which has not been the case so far? it is certainly important today to support actively, effectively and pragmatically those who are victims of this new closure, but it is equally important to ensure that tomorrow we move from talk to action in this european union which will have to take matters into its own hands in a more serious way. the union is the victim of a policy it has desired.
mr president, is a debate on volkswagen today without a resolution and one minute per speaker ridiculous? no, that's a shame! but what drama does the commission need to review the directive on works councils which it is still blocking. have you been paying attention to the hutchinson report on relocations? will you allow volkswagen to benefit from the european globalisation adjustment fund? no, the volkswagen plant is not threatened with closure because liberalism has not worked well but because in europe today there is still no social regulation of the european market. to those on the right who oppose any legislation in this area, i say that social europe will be achieved, it will be achieved despite you, it will be achieved with blood, it will be achieved with tears, but it will be achieved. and i am calling today not only for a commissioner for restructuring but for a volkswagen directive, on behalf of all the workers of forest and also of all those in my region and in your regions, ladies and gentlemen, who are now doubting europe and politics.
president, mr president of the council, commissioners, this instrument will be the vehicle by which the european union will contribute to democracy and human rights worldwide. i am very pleased with the compromise we have reached, because it takes account of the essential points and our rapporteurs, the president of the council and the president of the commission deserve all the credit for this. i am therefore satisfied that assistance can be given without the consent of the governments of third countries, that parliamentary democracy is explicitly mentioned, as are political pluralism and democratic political representation. finally, i am pleased that independent political foundations are also mentioned. ladies and gentlemen, i do not wish to minimize the importance of human rights in themselves, quite the contrary, but at the same time i would like to underline the absolutely crucial importance of political parties in any democratization process. elections are essential in a democracy, but they are not enough. to make democracy sustainable, we need well-functioning democratic political parties, so that debate can take place not only among the parties but also with the public. all too often, parties are merely vehicles to bring or keep a particular figure, clan or group in power. in fact, that is one of the main reasons why they are generally not trusted. however, ngos and civil society are not enough to guarantee political debate and control of the administration. i would therefore ask the council and the commission to make a further effort to ensure that support for democratic political groups is also possible, of course in exceptional circumstances.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are living a happy moment in this parliament tonight with the debate on the seventh framework programme and the prospect of its implementation. it is a happy moment, especially for the scientific community, because this programme is the third most important programme of the european union and it is a programme which enables the scientific community to give itself a european dimension and excellence. so, not having any discontinuity from one program to another is a key objective. thanks to the joint efforts of the finnish presidency, whose perseverance and quality of work i commend, the commissioner and the commission and parliament departments - we worked in an excellent spirit of collaboration, respecting the objectives that had been set - we have reached the stage where we can launch the seventh framework programme on time. this is a crucial point. the second point is a little less positive: the means are not up to our expectations. there's nothing we can do about it. the commissioner stressed that the financial perspective had delayed the discussion and then failed to match europe's ambitions. i will repeat again and again that the europe of tomorrow is built on research and innovation. we are talking about it, we are discussing it, but the member states are not always willing to bring their declarations into line with the objectives. it is therefore damaging that the framework programme, as proposed by the commission, has been cut by at least 25 to 30%. but we must, as they say in belgium, try to have the most efficient framework programme possible. in this connection, i believe, as mr buzek has said, that the commission's proposal has been broadly accepted and that the improvements or amendments which have been made are all in the right direction. i would like to make two points. the european research council is obviously a major innovation in european policy. it is essential that the scientific community establishes itself at european level and that excellence is recognised by the european scientific community itself. this will give europe much greater visibility. that is why we, and mrs niebler amongst others, have been very attentive to the way in which this european research council would operate. another point which i think is essential is joint technological initiatives. this process, which is an extension of the technology platforms, is essential to ensure the competitiveness of european industry. it will therefore be very important that the council, the commission and parliament can implement joint technological initiatives in certain areas quickly. it will obviously not be possible to do this everywhere, but i believe that the tool is indispensable. commissioner, you are a greater diplomat than i am and i would like to congratulate you on getting the council to agree to extend stem cell research, including surplus embryonic stem cells. this is a balanced agreement. it is a continuation of what we were able to do with the sixth framework programme, but it is well framed ethically. the statement you have just made reassures our colleagues that we are not destroying embryos but are preserving all the prospects that stem cells offer for the scientific and medical knowledge of tomorrow, in particular the surplus embryonic stem cells. i therefore commend you on reaching this agreement. i would also like to point out to the house that tomorrow we will also be voting on the specific programmes and that there are amendments. i know that the procedure is different for specific programmes, but this is an opinion. that said, there should be no votes on specific programmes which are not in line with what was voted for the framework programme. mr buzek rightly said that parliament supported the compromise proposals. there are also legitimate amendments from members of parliament. the majorities differ according to whether the specific programmes or the framework programme are concerned. for the sake of overall coherence of the system, there should be no gap between specific programmes and framework programmes. i'm coming to the rules of engagement. i shall be very brief because you have stressed, commissioner, the new points in relation to the proposal. but there is one essential thing that i believe we share. the aim is simplification and we have tried to develop in this direction. unfortunately, however, we must remain humble and modest: we are constantly told that we must simplify, but those who have had a great deal of experience with framework programmes have always found that, unfortunately, it is not yet perfect. i'm not sure what we've done will be perfect. it will also depend on your vigilance and not just your vigilance, but also our vigilance. we're here to help you undo the constraints that come from others to complicate the process. for example, we wanted to ensure the participation of small and mediumsized enterprises. but it's not just the fact that we're going to give them 75 percent, it's the fact, for example, that in the guarantee fund, we're not going to ask them to do financial audits every three months to see if they're able to participate. so these are the practical consequences, but they depend on the implementation because sometimes there are people who are overzealous. it's pretty normal, but sometimes it's too much. so you'll have to see to it that it's executed properly. i am also thinking of reducing indirect costs by 60%. it is true that this figure can be considered a bit arbitrary, and that indirect costs must be calculated as closely as possible, which is why a distinction is made between the first three years and the others, but such a figure was essential to have universities and smes in all countries, because accounting systems are very different. i would like to conclude by saying: thank you very much for the work done, and above all for making this framework programme and the rules for participation for the scientific community possible, thanks to your capacity for dialogue and the capacity for dialogue of the finnish presidency, which has been excellent in this area. i thank you again and i think that tomorrow many of us will be able to vote without any problems on your proposals and our amended proposals.
mr president, i think we should return to mr chichester's proposal. everything must be voted on as a whole and the interpretations that some people give to the commission's reply are not correct. the commission has been very clear. it said it would enforce the memorandum of understanding, an annex to the declaration, which aims to ensure that research on surplus embryonic stem cells is conducted under very strict ethical conditions. so there is no question of reopening the debate. it is the same thing every time and i think we should follow mr chichester's proposal! (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the eu's enlargement policy has been and remains an important instrument for stabilising central and central europe and the balkans. the incentive of membership has been and can be used to persuade these countries to firmly anchor and practise basic democratic principles, the rule of law and the market economy in their own countries. it is of the utmost importance that the eu's pressure on the candidate countries to reform is not taken away by premature promises and the insistence on dates for accession. i remain of the opinion that the accession of romania and bulgaria will take place prematurely. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession of the new member states to the european union is not delayed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the new member states, and to extend the scope of the existing regulation to include the new member states.
in writing. aids is back! belgium reached a record high with 1 072 new infections in 2005. a 52-percent increase in eight years! people die less from the disease, at least in belgium. but aids has become commonplace. the condom is like a diet you have to follow all year. sometimes you just want to crack. so we must strengthen the means of prevention. and in places strongly influenced by religion, remind them that calls for abstinence are out of place! that's why i co-signed a draft resolution on aids. i wanted to draw attention to the children suffering from aids. fifteen million children are orphaned by the disease, 12 million of them in africa alone! according to professor montagnier, the discoverer of the virus, "the wave of infection will not produce its full effects for another ten years. the demographic impact will be significant, as the disease will wipe out an entire population of young adults". this friday is international aids day. we should not miss this opportunity to remind people of the growing burden of aids. while the death rate from other infectious diseases should be reduced, this one, thankfully, is!
mr president, on 20 september 2003, that is to say before we began our work here, mr chirac, mr blair and mr schroeder wrote to the european commission asking it not to undermine the competitiveness of the chemical industry. the intervention, and of course the pressure, at this level was unprecedented in our history of codecision, and i must say that at that time the message was clear: reach would be far, far from the ambition that was set out, particularly in the white paper, as early as 2001. of course, we cannot afford to put this sector, which is one of the most competitive and dynamic in our industry, at a disadvantage. we have been listening to him, each of us, constantly, to his concerns. reach will be feasible. the evidence is the simplified registration procedure for substances produced in quantities of one to ten tonnes, the strengthening of the future helsinki agency, the affirmation - as has been said many times - of the osor principle (one substance - one registration), in order to facilitate the exchange of information between companies. it is also important to limit the costs of data entry: this is essential for smes. there is also this possibility of opt-out, of exemption, duly justified by the applicant. these are considerable advances, and i would like to be able to celebrate them today if we had not given in to the substitution principle. what remains is not even a dilution, i would rather say it is a deception, a gradual, case-by-case substitution, including carcinogens, mutagens and reproductive toxicants, if adequate control is exercised - and i quote the text here. reach is also, and above all, a blank cheque for endocrine disruptors - plasticisers, insecticides, flame retardants, all of which are among the most dangerous chemicals for human health - a blank cheque signed by our parliament, while the finnish presidency agreed here to impose substitution. i hallucinate when i think about it! europe has turned its back on europeans. explain to them today that a substance that is harmful to health is not withdrawn from the market, especially if there is a safer alternative! i am ashamed too of the end of the non-receipt, and i use a euphemism, of the european bodies opposed to the two million doctors, the bodies and the heads of the scientific world who constantly warn us about this silent pandemic, created, among other things, by chemical pollution. i read the same lancet article as mrs. mcavan and mr. schlyter! so, on wednesday, 13 december, our meeting with the people's europe will be too little, too late, and all those who, like me, here, are betting on combining health and sustainable employment instead of continuing to oppose them in a totally sterile and outdated way, will have today only a minute or two to express their disappointment.
president, commissioners, colleagues, representatives of the council, if we succeed this week in approving the reach compromise, then for the second time in this legislative half-year parliament will have proved that it listens to the people's cries and that it is able to take responsibility for very far-reaching and complex technical matters and bring them to a successful conclusion. the negotiators faced a very difficult task and i would like to congratulate them sincerely on the agreement reached. i think it is a good thing that there is agreement at second reading. after all, everything had been said and it was time to wrap up and get the performers and the people on the ground to work. president. - as the epp-ed group we have always been reluctant to take a unilateral stand on one side or the other of the lobby. we have constantly striven for balance. a balance must be struck between the desire to improve the protection of health and the environment on the one hand and the preservation of competitiveness and the avoidance of unnecessary administrative burdens on the other. and i think we've been quite successful in that. no one is 100% satisfied, that's the nature of compromise. i believe that with the package which is to be put to the vote on wednesday we are making progress on several fronts compared to earlier texts which we have drawn up and voted on in the course of this legislative procedure. in the area of licensing policy, we are certainly making progress, both in terms of the conditions under which licences for dangerous substances are granted and in terms of the duration of these licences. the protection of intellectual property has been strengthened - and this was necessary - and unnecessary animal testing is prevented. i am sure that the large companies will be able to understand our compromise text, but i am less sure about the smaller ones, and here we as the epp are counting on the implementing measures and the necessary accompanying measures; if the commission has any plans on this, i should like to hear them later. we have weighed everything and we will approve the package, mr president, because we know that in 11 years' time we will have radically renewed and made transparent our chemicals policy. europeans will live with fewer health risks and we also expect that the competitiveness of industry will not be weakened but rather strengthened. of course, the companies are paying a price, and not a small price. but the mainstream of society is demanding more health information and more health protection, and that demand is not going to go down. a reach tested label may eventually become a commercial advantage rather than an economic disadvantage. and our legislation, as has been said here before, can become a global standard. we must at least make sure that this is done, including by means of good information campaigns for consumers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and i am sure he will be commended for the work he has done, but i regret that the commission has not followed parliament's proposal for a decision correcting the 2002 directive on the circulation of compound feedingstuffs. the obligation to provide the composition of mixtures to authorities in the event of a disaster alone, while a step forward, is not enough and will have to be addressed when the commission reviews the legislation in 2007. it is essential that the origin of the materials, whether vegetable or mineral, be known to the farmer using the food. so a mineral or vegetable protein does not have the same virtues depending on its origin and it is because of the absence of this information that we have found in the food the waste oils that led to the all too famous bse crisis, for example. the composition of the mixtures cannot be concealed under the pretext of intellectual property protection of the formulae. in the course of his work, a farmer who composes the diet of his livestock with part of his own production must be able to supplement it with a mixture which will enable him to balance it. it is therefore essential that he knows the composition of the mixture he is buying, in order to maintain his ration balanced. the farmer must remain in control of his own house and the monopoly of the manufacturers cannot prevent him from doing his job, especially since in the event of a disaster he will be blamed for the misuse of foodstuffs of which he knows nothing. in summary, despite the corrections made to the commission's proposals in this report, the burden on food manufacturers and the agri-food industry at the expense of the farmer is still too great.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, i would point out that we have succeeded in creating a separate consumer programme, that is to say, a programme with its own budget and which can develop its own dynamic, and i think that consumers will appreciate that too. finally, we have three important new areas of concern: firstly, we have asked for more attention to be paid to new member states with a less long tradition in consumer protection. secondly, we have been able to pay particular attention to older consumers, because demographic change must also be reflected in consumer law. thirdly, in this action programme we have also been able to pay particular attention - and i think this is particularly important - to the vulnerable consumer, who cannot be so well covered in consumer law, where we have to work with the notion of the average consumer. i think that is important, mr president, we did not have a debate, but i thought i should give this information and emphasize these important points; i can only make a warm appeal to vote in favour of the common position, because it fully reflects our agreement in parliament and between the institutions.
in writing. water is the basis of all life and in that sense vital. the european environment agency says the situation is serious: 87% of groundwater in agricultural areas does not meet eu standards for the presence of nitrates and most member states report the risk of pollution by pesticides. a strict new groundwater directive is therefore of the utmost importance. the text adopted by the conciliation committee deserves our support. the ep succeeded in making the notion of 'protection against deterioration' legally binding. it was also ensured that the measures to achieve the quality standard for nitrates should be aligned with the water framework directive. member states and regions are also given more stringent obligations to prevent and reduce the introduction of dangerous substances into groundwater. they now have the obligation to take all the necessary measures to achieve this, not just to 'seek it'. the result of the first reading was a major ecological disappointment. and the council's common position was also a complete disaster. the second reading of the ep and the subsequent conciliation procedure put things right. we can be satisfied with the result. i therefore approved the agreement reached.
president, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that the new directive is coming, because it is the way to ensure that traditional television stations on the open network retain all their opportunities in the digital age. it is not, as you know, appropriate to impose strict obligations on traditional open network television, whereas those rules would not apply to the rapidly expanding on-demand television. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs hieronymi, and the commissioner, mrs reding, on their work. two comments, though, mr president, on product placement: this is a good thing, and it is good for the television industry, because it gives it a new tool to attract advertisers and to absorb the declining revenue from commercials. of course, a proper framework must be established for this, with the protection of editorial autonomy on the one hand and an announcement before and after the programme. it's a way for the viewer to know where they stand. secondly, rapporteur, commissioner, in flanders we would have liked to see europe adopt a general ban on advertising in children's programmes. in flanders there is support for this, and in sweden too, but apparently less in the rest of europe, which is a pity. we may impose stricter rules than the european minimum we will adopt tomorrow, but those rules risk being undermined by broadcasters broadcasting from other member states to the public in flanders, as you know. and what is on the table now, unfortunately, is not enough to avoid that. i hope therefore that we will not weaken the council's compromise any further tomorrow and that, finally, mr president, there will be a code of conduct for advertising for fast food, for example, which is a good thing, but we would be much better off simply keeping advertising for unhealthy food off the screen, especially when it comes to children's programmes. the member states can still decide that. that would be the best tool in the fight against obesity, which we all support.
i thank you for your reply, commissioner, which does not surprise me, since it confirms exactly the commission's position expressed in the action programme just adopted for the period 2007-12, which has as its sole objective, i quote, to ensure a high level of consumer protection and to ensure the effective application of consumer protection rules. in practice, how does the commission intend to prosecute member states which, for example, do not apply the existing directives correctly in the case of guarantees or distance sales and which pose very serious risks to consumers trying to take advantage of the internal market? finally, do you not think that the policy of this commission has turned the consumer citizen, contrary to the spirit of the treaty, into a poor and neglected relative of this internal market?
mr president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, as my colleague elisabeth schroedter has already said, our group has agreed to the outcome of the trilogue, with the aim of achieving a rapid implementation of the fund. i would like to stress here that this aid is directed at workers and that it is primarily aimed at reintegration into the labour market, which i think is very positive. the commission will have to clarify the interpretation of the intervention criteria set out in article 2 in its guidelines. the job losses in question are clearly linked to structural changes in international trade for particular sectors. however, what is considered to be a serious economic disturbance remains open to interpretation. we therefore believe that the automobile sector can be included in this scheme and that as such the workers of volkswagen forest and the subcontracting companies should be able to benefit from this additional aid. as desirable as this new fund is, it does not of course prevent a further deterioration of working conditions under the pressure of competition between different production sites of the same group, located inside or outside the union. the green group reiterates its call for the commission to propose a legal framework to promote the existence of european, sectoral and group collective agreements, which would make it possible to anticipate restructuring rather than undergo it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will not leave the workers who are affected by restructuring and who lose their jobs in the cold. we are going to convey that message and it is important that the signal be given at european level too. that in such a case we must and will do everything possible to assist those people who lose their jobs as efficiently as possible, in search of a new job of course. in the short term, as we have just said, this is the case with the restructuring of volkswagen vorst in brussels, where thousands of people are losing their jobs, including those in the suppliers. today, many workers who are affected by the crisis are opting for a high severance grant, but that does not make the need for and the assistance to be given to those workers in their search for a new job any less acute, commissioner. we therefore expect them to be eligible for support from the fund, because it is indeed a sector facing globalisation. i am sure, commissioner, that in the coming weeks and months many of the workers concerned will be placing their hopes in the european commission. i assume we won't disappoint them.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the european parliament can accept the overall compromise of the presidency. this agreement will allow the institute to be set up more quickly. the recent decision by the member states to locate the institute in vilnius is a sign of a common desire to see the institute start its work as soon as possible. ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow parliament will take another step towards equal opportunities. this journey, as has been stated in a number of contributions to the discussion, is far from complete.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr groote, for his tireless work. it has made it possible to reach agreement with the council at first reading. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and, of course, the finnish presidency for the efforts which have helped us to bring this difficult chapter to a close now. the three institutions have worked together constructively. we now have a proposal on the table which sets strict emission limits for the next 10 years, while creating incentives and clarity for technological innovation. the proposals are also based on a thorough impact assessment, which confirmed the technical and financial feasibility of the proposals, as a result of a concerted effort. the proposed regulation is a major step towards improving the environmental performance of motor vehicles. poor air quality throughout the european union is a matter of great concern and has serious health implications. therefore, this regulation deals first with particulate matter emissions and with the emission of nitrogen oxides. so it's about improving air quality. the commission is in favour of the agreement at first reading for four reasons. firstly, the compromise reached takes into account the costs and benefits of setting emission limit values. for petrol-engined vehicles, more stringent limit values have been set than for diesel vehicles, as lower emissions are easier and cheaper to achieve for petrol-engined vehicles than for diesel engines. this is important if we are to persuade consumers to switch from their old, more polluting vehicles to more environmentally friendly but more expensive ones. secondly, the commission welcomes the timetable for the introduction of euro 5 and euro 6. the five-year gap between the introduction of the two standards is important to allow the engines to be developed accordingly to meet the next and more stringent emission level. thirdly, i am pleased that an agreement has been reached on access to repair and maintenance information. the oasis standard will be maintained for the time being and can then be adapted rapidly to technical progress. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of new vehicles is not only limited to their new state, but also extends over their entire lifetime. however, this cannot be guaranteed without access to repair and maintenance information. fourthly, i think it is important that a consensus has been reached on the question of financial incentives, a package of two emission levels, as in euro 3 and euro 4 and now again in euro 5 and euro 6. this has environmental and technological benefits if both stages are actually implemented as stages. the same must apply to tax incentives. the commission has therefore decided to accept all the amendments proposed by your rapporteur, mr groote.
draft report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (90) 0143 - c4-0414/91) for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. mr president, this directive is obviously - and i thank the rapporteur for that - a major step forward in the field of public health. the compulsory installation of soot filters on diesel cars in particular is reducing fine dust emissions by 80%, which is a figure that should be welcomed by everyone. at present, life expectancy in the european union is on average 8 months lower due to the presence of ultra-harmful fine particulate matter, soot particles in the air, and any measure to address this situation is of course positive. it is now up to the member states to introduce measures, fiscal and other incentives to get older, polluting diesels off the road as quickly as possible. so, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, there are also some disadvantages. it is truly regrettable that the 4x4s have been given an exception through a back gate and that the manufacturers of these so-called suvs are given more time to adapt. i assume, commissioner, that you yourself do not drive an suv for the simple reason that suvs, you know, are the biggest distributors of fine dust; they emit 1/3 more fine dust than normal diesel cars and fine dust causes cancer, you know that. i therefore call on the manufacturers to take their responsibility. the brand of off-road vehicle that comes up with the fastest environmentally friendly off-road vehicle, in my eyes and in the eyes of all of us, i think, is miles ahead of the competition. finally, ladies and gentlemen, public opinion can and must play its part. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not being implemented.
president. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the jokes about twins have become tiresome recently, but i was just about to say that fortunately you are not evil twins yet, because that would be a great pity. ladies and gentlemen, since may/june 2005, enlargement has been under attack. the main reason for the rejection in france and the netherlands was enlargement. in this negative atmosphere, the concept of absorptive capacity was suddenly introduced. a terribly ugly word and actually an excuse for many to hold back further enlargement and even to call into question, if not revoke, the promises made. my group has never been in favour of this. my group is very much attached to the following elements. first of all: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. secondly: the fulfilment of all commitments made: the european union has made a number of promises to the countries of the western balkans, even though some of them are still in the process of being formed, and also to turkey. in this context, i would like to congratulate commissioner rehn, his colleagues in the commission and the council on the decisions taken with regard to turkey. i think that's a balanced balanced approach. there are no closing doors, but there is a clarification of the issue and we fully support you in that decision. finally, my group is also very keen - and mr duff will deal with this in more detail in a moment - to see that the union puts its institutions in order before the next enlargement takes place. but, ladies and gentlemen, that is the responsibility of the union. that is the responsibility of the member states, of the commission, of this parliament, of the council, and not least of the european council. that is not the responsibility of the applicant countries. both reports reflect this new, more positive attitude towards enlargement, and they emphasize very clearly that the institutions will have to be reformed first, which is why my group will approve them.
president. - mr president, i am not going to go into the details of the enlargement negotiations, but i would like to ask you to give me a brief explanation of the reasons why you have not done so. turkey is given a deadline to fulfil its obligations in the customs union. the turkish government refuses to do so and what is the so-called sanction of the european union. the difficult chapters are not being opened for the time being. the deadline has passed and there will be no new deadline. the commission and the council keep on saying that they do not want a train wreck with turkey, that the turks have understood that they can make conditions and not us. the belgian government has, in fact, devised a new doctrine for this purpose, which is that, with turkey, and i quote: "and that a different approach to that must be taken". in other words, a non-european candidate country like turkey should not be so strict with the copenhagen criteria. the european union has no answer to turkey's bazaar negotiating style. commissioner rehn has just spoken about the credibility of the european union vis-à-vis the applicant countries. he forgets one small detail, namely the credibility of the eu in the eyes of european public opinion. the people have always been told that if turkey failed to make a manifest effort, the negotiations would be stopped. the opposite is happening now, and that is the problem of credibility facing the european union.
in writing. reach is a very important step for eu chemicals policy. the reversal of the principle of responsibility, which passes from the public authorities to industry and producers, is a phenomenal revolution for the whole sector. nor can we underestimate the tremendous knowledge gains that will result from the registration, evaluation and authorisation process. this knowledge gain will have consequences for the whole industry and for our possibilities to preserve man and nature. the only major regret is that the substitution principle for chemicals of "high concern" will not be as binding as might have been hoped. i hope that in the near future this principle will be taken up and accepted by the two european co-legislators and that it will not have to wait twenty years for this, as with this directive. to reject the whole of reach legislation because of this regret would have been to throw the baby out with the bath water and it would certainly not have led to better legislation in the short or medium term. i call on the future agency to remain pragmatic in its attitude to certain well-known substances, the use of which is in principle not a problem, such as lime.
in writing. i cannot possibly be happy about the reach proposal which has now been chased through parliament. the commission, the council and parliament have been led astray by economic blindness and complacency. for the first time in a long time, the union had the opportunity to create a set of rules which all citizens would have seen fit to use: the commission's proposal is a very complex one, but it is concrete and always with a view to the health of all its inhabitants. neither industry nor the public is satisfied with the half-hearted approach to harmful chemicals. some conclude that it is a 'good compromise'. it's not that. it is as if saying that halving the thickness of the berlin wall would have been a good solution. you don't play with people's health. there is no middle ground. even a little healthier is still sick. in flanders, the situation has reached the point where there is no place where no harmful substances are present. often we know they're unhealthy, but we don't know exactly why. a good reach regulation would have solved that problem and would have made flanders healthy in the medium term, for example. what's voted now doesn't do that. half as healthy is not an option.
in writing. first of all, i would like to highlight the excellent work of the rapporteur, mr guido sacconi. i have decided to vote in favour of the compromise amendment between the council and parliament, first and foremost because it will allow for better control of certain dangerous products and at the same time strengthen the competitiveness of the chemical industry. although it is true that this compromise is not perfect, i think that if it had not been adopted, the situation would have been more complicated. the compromise provides for the compulsory substitution of the most dangerous substances where alternatives exist, the recognition of a 'duty of vigilance' on the part of producers and the promotion of alternative methods to animal testing. this version of the text is certainly different from the text submitted at first reading, but if the text had been rejected, we would have had to go through the conciliation stage which would have led to other less favourable conclusions. that is why i thought it wiser to vote for this version of the text, which is not perfect, but which nevertheless allows for progress and greater control of the chemicals we encounter in everyday life.
the report, mr president, is important to me because it considers all the possibilities and alternatives for minimising the number of animal experiments. the suffering of laboratory animals, and of mammals in particular, is a matter of concern to many european citizens. the use of experimental animals should be avoided wherever possible. the european centre for the validation of alternative methods seems to have an important role to play. the institution will have to provide sufficient validated alternatives to end long-term animal testing with more resources. we also call for transparency and clarity on the number of animals and types of tests carried out by research laboratories.
it is difficult, mr president, to be enthusiastic about a text and a vote which is very complicated and which we will only be able to judge properly when we have read it over again in our own time. i have the impression that we have managed to strike a balance between respecting the competitive aspirations of our chemical industry on the one hand and the care and attention so necessary for our public health on the other. in any case, we must note with satisfaction that in recent years it has become clear that our chemical industry is clearly aware of its responsibilities and has taken on the burden of proof and accepted the principle of the duty of care. one more thing: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's energy policy is not based on the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. i voted for the excellent report by mrs hieronymi on the revision of the european television without frontiers directive to incorporate the breakthrough technological innovations. i welcome the fact that the directive maintains the course on production quotas for european works and the protection of minors against certain abuses. promoting cultural diversity and european values of tolerance also means curbing incitement to hatred, regardless of the channel of transmission - satellite television or the internet. that is why i supported the amendments calling for the extension of 'filtering' to non-linear services: this is the best way to prevent programmes which in the future promote terrorism from being broadcast on european territory! finally, i applaud the resolutely modern vote of the ep today, which recognises the considerable contribution of advertising in the creation of quality independent works and entertainment television that meets the expectations of citizens. i would also point out that the commercial broadcasters are the ones who are setting the example: with more than 30% of their programme orders from independent persons, they not only largely meet the 10% quota introduced by the directive, but above all they spend twice as much as their public competitors.
in writing. the development of the audiovisual sector is enormous. in this sense, it is a good thing that the 'television without frontiers' directive is being revised. the distinction between linear (traditional tv, internet, mobile telephony) and non-linear (on demand) services calls for the formulation of basic rules for the protection of young people against incitement to racial hatred or to prevent subtle advertising. the text adopted has good and bad elements. the good ones include a scheme for the transmission of short segments of football matches or other events. the proposal for a minimum time limit for interrupting programmes by advertising (45 minutes) is also to be defended. the european greens regret that the proposal to limit advertising breaks to a maximum of three per hour did not succeed. and there's a cloud of uncertainty about product placement. we leave it to the member states to decide. the line between product placement and production aid is very thin, which will create doubt and controversy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. it is also a pity that the reference to pluralism and the prevention of media concentration is only in the recitals and not in the articles.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the amended hieronymi report because it represents a great deal of progress in the field of television. i welcome, among other things, the adoption of amendment no 227 banning product placement in television news, political information programmes, children's programmes, documentaries and advice programmes, and allowing it under strict conditions in cinematographic works, films, television series and sports programmes. i have two major criticisms of this report, however. i regret that parliament voted unanimously to suspend the transmission of films made for television, motion pictures, children's programmes and television newspapers by cutting advertising every 30 minutes instead of the 45 minutes voted for in the committee on culture. i also regret the vote on amendment no 221 concerning derogations from the country of origin principle which allows member states to adopt more detailed or stricter rules; the amendment is a danger to cultural diversity, a principle which the european parliament must safeguard.
in writing. europe will help victims of business relocations. from 1 january, a globalisation adjustment fund will provide up to €500 million each year to workers affected by international restructuring. they will be able to count on the union to facilitate, or rather make less difficult, their conversion. individual training, micro-credit, mobility aids, it is clearly a matter of helping employees and not companies. the question obviously arises in all our minds: can the workers of vw forest count on this european solidarity? the criteria for access to the fund are strict: redundancies must affect at least 1000 people, including subcontractors, and have a serious impact on the local economy. but above all, the belgian authorities must be able to prove that the restructuring is the result of 'structural changes in world trade trends', and that is not an easy task! the union is faced here with a clear case of social competition within its territory, and the commission will have to be flexible in its examination of the criteria. it is a question of the image of europe and our concept of solidarity at union level!
in writing. mass redundancies due to closures, heavy restructuring in sectors sensitive to globalisation, less large-scale collective redundancies due to structural changes in world trade patterns ... they all have a big impact on the local labour market. the creation of a european fund for adaptation to globalisation is therefore a good thing. unlike the other structural funds, the globalisation adjustment fund enables member states to respond quickly and directly to acute socioeconomic emergencies, enabling affected workers to reintegrate into the labour market after dismissal. the fact that member states are co-financing 50% of this and that support from this fund is only complementary to and not replacing these actions is positive. i am also glad that the council and the commission support the idea of microcredit as an active labour market measure. the positive side is that older workers are not obliged to work longer for less pay, but are given financial incentives to remain in the labour market. finally, the fact that the fund is structured in such a way that the interventions cannot be intercepted by 'other actors' but benefit the workers directly can only serve as an example for other structural funds.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is clear that the european union is not prepared to accept the brutal negotiating methods of turkey, which my colleague has sarcastically, but very rightly, described as 'bazaar negotiations'. the way in which the european negotiators let their own ultimatums lapse again and again with impunity is outrageous and gives turkey a totally wrong image. the image of a european union which is prepared to do anything to ensure turkish accession, and this is absolutely against the democratic will of the majority of european citizens. we may have to conclude that the european union is as undemocratic as the applicant country turkey.
the turkish government has indicated that it will not give in to what it describes as pressure from the cypriots to force ankara to take so-called unilateral measures to resolve the problems between turkey and nicosia. it is said that the european union, to which turkey is so eager to belong, has yielded to the pressure from cyprus. the turkish government has now announced that it will not take any so-called unilateral measures, in other words, that it will not comply with the agreements contained in the ankara protocol on cyprus. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the european council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow will take the opportunity to clarify the situation with regard to turkey, because what is at stake here are not unilateral measures but a situation which is crystal clear and which can be summed up in a few sentences. it is not possible for a candidate country which has been occupying the territory of another member state of the union for more than 30 years to join the union and then think that it can pass the blame on to the victims. that's the gist of the matter. the fact that erdogan refuses to open his ports and airports to cypriot ships is only the logical consequence of turkish imperialism towards cyprus. the negotiations must not be suspended, but must be stopped.
president, madam president-in-office, mr president of the commission, i cannot imagine that the council would not say anything about the restructuring of volkswagen vorst. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. i think that europe can help not only through the structural funds or a globalisation fund, but i think that the commission must also look after the restructuring. were the unions consulted in time? i think that is certainly not the case at volkswagen! is the restructuring based on economic motives or were there other national motives? volkswagen vorst is the second most productive site. it is true that the automobile sector is overproduced, but i think that it is precisely at such a time that a real industrial policy is needed. cars 21 is a first step, but it seems to me that it is still far from being enough.
president of the council. i would simply like to point out, mr president, that the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental issues of the european union. the mobility of services is also well developed and if there are irregularities in the member states, it is the duty and the duty of the member states to monitor and deal with them. it is clear that the wide disparities in the legislation of the member states lead to very different practices across europe.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it was a tough job. we started working on it two and a half years ago. the electoral period was not the most favourable for reaching an agreement at first reading, but we have brought the dossier to a good end in my view. i would like to thank my colleagues in advance because we had a very open debate in the committee and also found that it was not so much about party differences as it was about traditions. i would like to thank in particular those colleagues who have given their support to the project, far beyond the sensitivities in their own country. i would also like to thank the council, because the finnish presidency, the austrian presidency and, last but not least, the luxembourg presidency, which laid the foundations for the compromise, have all contributed to the fact that we can reach a good conclusion tomorrow. mr commissioner, i also want to thank you for your very efficient support of this project. i would like to emphasize in particular the expertise of the members of your administration in dealing with this very complex dossier, which has led us to some, i believe, quite interesting solutions. the challenges of this directive can, in my view, be summed up in the following points: the first thing we wanted to do was not to introduce an additional driving licence, the 111 or the 130 but to introduce a single european driving licence in due course. but this was more of a symbol, because we also wanted to ensure that the exchange of driving licences would record driving licences in circulation and we have the corresponding documents, so that you know exactly how many driving licences are in circulation in different countries and who owns them, so that the exchange of information can take place. finally, road safety was also a concern, and this was particularly the case in the motorcycle sector. we have achieved that. the directive also took account of a good balance between economic efficiency and safety, particularly in the caravan sector. these common challenges have led to a common position. the countries will introduce the new model of driving licence in six years' time for new applications. this affects, albeit progressively, 300 million citizens. but it is more than just a symbol for these citizens. it is precisely this added value that has convinced us all. there's an improvement in mobility. with a single driving licence recognised everywhere the problems associated with the recognition of acquired rights in the respective countries will disappear not only for tourists but also for professional drivers. that will be ensured once and for all by this proposal today. legal certainty is one of our main concerns, and we have created it with this project. since we are dealing with a compromise, we must talk about deadlines. i would have been very happy, of course, if the whole process, both the first exchange and the regular exchange, had been completed within ten years. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the subject. i'm going to start with a little philosophical principle here: better late than never. but i hope that this will happen a little earlier than the deadline set by the directive. one of the most important aspects in my view is still safety. we have made two important points in this area. the first is to stop so-called driver's licence tourism. in the event of withdrawal, restriction or suspension, driving tourism can be stopped, based on the data we have in the various countries and if the countries show good will. we believe that anyone who is dangerous on the road in one country should be banned from driving in the other 26 countries. the basis is laid, and we are waiting for a clear signal from the member states. a second important point in safety was the motorcycle area. the progressive access to heavy motorcycles, which may be expected in time in other areas, is a principle based on statistics, which are unfortunately not yet as positive in the motorcycle sector as regards accidents, but on the other hand it also represents a good combination of practice and theory. the theory at the beginning and then the practice should make access easy. in the caravan sector, a good balance between economy and safety has been found. i am glad that the commission has accepted our proposal. we have not only called for the additional b+e licence for motorhomes and caravans, but also for a small test for those over a certain weight. in conclusion, i would say that this directive, thanks to the good cooperation of the three institutions, but also of the members of this parliament, represents an added value for the citizens: more legal certainty, more road safety, more mobility, less driving tourism and also a plus for business and tourism. in this sense, i think that overall, with the report we have set a good example of what is possible in the committee on transport in terms of pragmatism.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. madam president, i am speaking in my capacity as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment on mr seppänen's report. the committee on the environment broadly welcomes the report drawn up by the committee on industry. i shall use the minute i have to highlight the following particular points: first, the support which the community will have to give to the development, under the aegis of the iaea, of a code of conduct for the international nuclear incident alert system; secondly, the importance of the polluter pays principle in holding third countries and operators to account. thirdly, financing the rehabilitation of former nuclear sites, on the express condition that a high degree of safety is guaranteed at low cost and within a reasonable time. it is regrettable, however, that our amendments on the amendment of the legal basis, the taking into account of the independent audits of the european court of auditors, or the budgetary rigour in consultation, to name but a few, were not accepted. i am also personally pleased that the committee on industry has taken up my amendment amending recital 13, which recalls that the member states are sovereign when it comes to making choices in the nuclear field. what applies to austria does not necessarily apply to finland or belgium.
in writing. by 2032, our grandchildren will all have the same driver's license! a single licence for all europeans, in the form of a credit card, a driving licence made in the usa: that is a guarantee of increased safety and a concrete sign of european identification. i regret that it took 26 years to achieve harmonization; however, the very first licences will be issued in 2012. it's about time! there are now 110 different driving licences in the european union! it creates confusion for the less honest and makes the road more dangerous than it needs to be. harmonizing national legislation means fighting 'driving licence tourism', i.e. the possibility for european citizens who have had their driving licence withdrawn in their country as a result of a serious offence to obtain another licence elsewhere in the union. the rules for the training of examiners will also be harmonised. this is a great way of ensuring the quality of education throughout europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all know how important the efficiency of markets is to the world economy. the market is liquidity and the ability of financial instruments to move quickly and in optimum safety. the legal framework governing such traffic is an essential parameter in terms of safety. globalisation has led to a chain of actors covering an increasing number of countries, raising the legitimate question of how to determine which law is applicable. the hague convention of 13 december 2002 was intended to answer this question. if the convention were to be ratified, far from solving this problem, it would increase systemic risks and weaken european actors. in view of the supposed impossibility of defining an objective place for the location of a securities account and, therefore, of determining the applicable law, the convention gives priority to the free choice of the parties to decide which law will apply to the contracts. this legal principle is in conflict with the community prima principle of the location of the securities account, adopted in three directives, the purpose directive (1998), the collateral directive (2002) and, finally, the credit institutions directive (2001). let us first consider the method. it is not right that parliament has not been consulted on the negotiations in the hague, in particular on the abandonment of the principle of the location of the securities account. the negotiations in the hague conference on private international law must be subject to democratic control. as far as the substance is concerned, the adoption of this convention would pose a significant risk to europe, from investors to issuers. it would have a negative impact on the fight against money laundering as it would facilitate the possible circumvention of reporting obligations and anti-money laundering mechanisms. it would have implications for delivery settlement systems, prudential risk and substantive law, in particular the objective of developing a european substantive law. it should be added that free choice of contract would in many cases be the most influential law in this sector, i.e. us law, which would reduce the competitiveness of european companies. i would like to point out four things: firstly, the location of the title account is possible and works very well in europe; secondly, the prerogatives of the european parliament must be respected. thirdly, it is essential to defend the general european interest, in particular the rights of european investors and the competitiveness of european players on financial markets. and fourthly, we must give priority to a framework to combat money laundering. the commission should therefore withdraw its proposal for ratification of the 36th hague convention.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a little over a year ago i spoke here about the situation in burma. the words repression, military junta in power, human rights violated, already smeared my speech. unfortunately, this situation has not changed: burma still makes no effort to make the exercise of power more democratic. several offices of the international red cross were closed by the spdc, making the humanitarian work of the organization impossible. the government prevents ngos from working properly, which causes many of them to leave. the military aid provided by india also arouses a great misunderstanding on our part: does not this country proclaim itself the largest democracy in the world? this is a total nonsense, which we condemn. india cannot ignore that this military aid will be used for the purpose of suppressing ethnic groups and political opponents! i think it is necessary for the un security council to take firm action against burma, condemning this illegitimate regime and calling for the restoration of democracy. i would also like to stress the feeling of confidence i have in the positive influence that the other asean countries can have: by their concern for greater integration, they play a role, which in my view is not negligible, in the field of human rights. may china and india play a similar role in the future, so that the burmese regime can move towards democracy!
mr president, like my good friend mr farage, i fear that i too will break the consensus on this very point. failed european summits are becoming part of the tradition. the failure of the presidency is always euphemised in fine terms in order to avoid the presidency being too much in the way. but this summit on the enlargement strategy, which is suddenly being put on a slower pace, has again been for nothing. the accession negotiations with turkey are being frozen for the time being, as they are called, while ankara's attitude towards cyprus, but also in other areas such as freedom of the press and the armenian question, should not lead to a freeze but to a definitive halt to the negotiations. i am surprised and annoyed that some spokesmen for official europe think they have to interfere with the freedom of the press and the internal politics of another member state. what a paradox! we must and will eventually welcome asian turkey, as we have been told for years, but we learned last week that the small prosperous country of flanders, located in the centre of europe, must not become an independent member of the eu. the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union, and that the council has been involved in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. europe cannot tolerate this, it seems. the flemings know what they are dealing with with these heads of state and government. mr juncker and his colleagues decree, without tolerating contradiction, that the belgian monarchy must continue to exist. nobody else has a finger in the pie. it is not a sign of great respect for freedom of expression, let alone the right of peoples to self-determination, when foreign heads of state think they can interfere with the freedom of the press in a member state and ignore the wishes of the flemings. but, ladies and gentlemen, the flemish people's will is very democratic and legitimate. flanders wants to be free of the corrupt ps dictatorship in wallonia and also wants to be free of the crooked royal children of the house of saxe-coburg. we want to make use of the right to self-determination, as the czechs and slovaks do. it is not for the european heads of state to dictate to flanders how it will take control of its future.
