mr president, last week the austrian presidency announced that the reflection period on the european constitution was over and that it intended to present a new proposal in june at the summit. in france, on the other hand, the minister of the interior, mr sarkozy, has proposed an original method of revising the draft text, based on a study by a group of experts visiting the european capitals, to produce a smaller text which could be voted on by the national parliaments. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that neither of these proposals contains any reference to the popular vote which has given us the impetus to review the course of the european union. a few months after the dutch 'no', it is therefore appropriate to study the lessons learned and how best to use them to fill the democratic gap that has developed between the institutions and the citizen. the european parliament has been a party to the treaty of rome for a long time, and it is not the council that is responsible for the decisions it takes.
mr president, i wish to inform my colleagues of an unhappy event that happened to me over the festive season. on new year’s eve, i was abducted in nicosia by turkish occupying forces and accused of trespassing over the turkish army line of separation imposed on cyprus after the turkish invasion of 1974. i was lucky to be arrested and not be killed: the orders given to turkish guards are to shoot anybody seen near this line. a number of innocent civilians have already died in this way over the last few years. subsequently, i spent three days in jail in turkish-occupied northern cyprus in atrocious conditions, and no permission was granted to the united nations, my relatives or the european parliament’s representative to visit me. i was presented handcuffed on two occasions before a turkish military court and on one occasion before an illegal civilian court in the turkish-occupied sector of nicosia. i was eventually released on bail of over eur 25 000 and am summoned to appear before the turkish occupation courts on 20 january; otherwise a warrant for my arrest will be issued. if found guilty, i face a three-year jail sentence.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. it comprehensively addresses all aspects of the problem of trafficking and trafficking for the sexual exploitation of women and children. i would like to congratulate mr frattini on his sensitivity and his views on this matter today. the phenomenon of trafficking for the sexual exploitation and trafficking of women and children is a great disgrace to modern society. and unfortunately, instead of going away, it's going up. prostitution is the root cause of sex trafficking, but prostitution and sex trafficking are two sides of the same coin. it is a fact that there is social tolerance of prostitution in all the member states of the european union. i'm not discussing this. but no tolerance of trafficking for the sexual exploitation of women, and especially children, seems to exist in any member state. yet, society is proving powerless to stamp out this scourge. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what 's wrong with it ? the reason is that the measures taken to combat this phenomenon are inadequate. but here's the challenge, here's the rhodes, here's the fucking. no more hypocrisy, social, state and individual. this phenomenon is degrading to man and violates the human rights of the victims involved in this adventure and must be eradicated. there is no room for compromise or indifference. the criminalisation of the knowing acceptance of sexual services by women acting under blackmail, deception or social and economic coercion, and particularly by children, is the first practical step that needs to be taken. and it's sure to work. the european parliament is called upon to approve the prets report by an overwhelming majority because, among other things, it adopts for the first time this position of criminalizing the acceptance of such sexual services.
member of the commission. mr president, i am very fond of the sea and swimming, and therefore i am personally interested in making europe's seas and waters as clean as possible. i would like to thank the parliament's delegation that took part in the conciliation meeting with the council on 12 october 2005, and in particular the vice-president, mr trakatelli, and the rapporteur, mr maaten, and congratulate them on their excellent work and the result achieved. the discussions in the conciliation committee were complex. but at least on the crucial issue of setting ambitious standards for the adequate quality classification category, i think that parliament has achieved remarkable results and a significant improvement over the original council position. the quality standards may not be as stringent as some would like - and indeed the minimum quality standards are not as stringent as those originally proposed by the commission. however, they were significantly strengthened during the discussion in the conciliation committee, with the result that the final text is significantly improved compared to the provisions currently in force, which date from the time of the adoption of the directive in 1975 and are therefore outdated by modern scientific data. the commission is very pleased to support the conciliation text and i would therefore hope that parliament will endorse the positive result achieved by its negotiating team. so tonight we are concluding the debate on two very important directives which will undoubtedly improve the environment and protect the health of european citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, hundreds of thousands of european citizens fall ill every year as a result of entering contaminated bathing waters. the diseases acquired in this way range widely in severity. most are clinically benign to moderate, but some are serious and a few are fatal. as expected, children, the elderly and the immunosuppressed are the most vulnerable. it is thus imperative for the legislative bodies of the eu to be greatly concerned with the quality of bathing waters. they have indeed been working on this issue for many years, and one would expect the parameters used to monitor the quality of bathing water to be as strict as possible. unfortunately this is not quite the case, and the reason for that is simple. it is that vast amounts of money are involved in the recreational and tourist industries associated with bathing waters, and if an area is pronounced to be of low bathing water quality then this has a serious economic impact on that region and that country. so the doctor’s opinion is no longer paramount, and ‘political compromises’ are the order of the day. thus it is that after many years of talking, discussion and arguing – mainly about things that, if seen purely from a common sense point of view, are crystal clear – we end up in a conciliatory position in which we reduce the possible economic damage to countries with unhygienic bathing waters and increase the collateral risk of causing ill health among our citizens. many colleagues will disagree strongly with what i say, but how else can it be explained when, for example, we have invented a distinction, as far as health risks are concerned, between inland and coastal bathing waters, and we are prepared to accept that inland waters can be almost twice as unhealthy as coastal waters yet still be of sufficient quality for bathing in. and how else can it be explained when we are prepared to label bathing waters as being of good quality when the risk of falling ill after swimming in them is of the order of 5% – i.e. 1 in 20 swimmers. although i will support this directive, it does not go far enough to make our bathing waters really safe. it just makes them less hazardous. in conclusion, many thanks are due to everyone who has worked so hard to produce this directive, and especially to my colleague mr maaten – although he is not a swimmer he has still worked extremely hard! – to the commission and, of course, to the members of the conciliation committee.
mr president, i shall not repeat the arguments that have been heard today from the rapporteurs and other speakers on the constitution. i am not even going to mention the thorough, long and exhaustive discussions that took place last year, but the dialogue that is being referred to! the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and i would like to express the view, mr president, that the debate we must have must not be about the constitution but about the problems of the european union, namely, firstly, whether the european union is still necessary. secondly, if european union is necessary, what kind of european union do we want? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is the european parliament that has always been the party to the treaty of rome. if we in the european union believe that it is necessary to consolidate and strengthen it, then our aim is to convince the citizens of the correctness of this course. confidence and belief in the european vision are the basis of the universal consensus of states and citizens for the constitutional regulation of the functioning of the european union. if the citizens of the european states do not realise the importance for humanity of the existence and further consolidation and strengthening of the european union then i foresee that no constitutional proposal will be accepted in the future. that is why i think we should not waste any more time. we have to build on what we have. and what we have today is the constitution, and we have to work on it and build on it, because i am very much afraid that any other attempt to create an alternative will fail and will be a final failure that will be to the detriment of the integration and progress of the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one. the crisis in iran's relations with the west, the continuing political instability in iraq, the crisis in lebanon-syria relations, which must be handled with particular care, and of course the situation in the region of israel and palestine, all intensify our concern and create a rather discouraging climate. in recent days the crisis in iran's relations with the west has reached its worst point. the possibility of military intervention against iran would be catastrophic and must be ruled out because a new war in the region would have a ripple effect on security and peace and not just in the middle east region. the situation in occupied iraq remains permanently destabilized. the recent revelation by former us secretary of state colin powell that the us was wrong in its assessment and that saddam did not possess nuclear weapons, demonstrates the real reasons for the us military presence in the region. the conclusions are, i think, obvious. the forthcoming parliamentary elections in palestine, which will take place on 25 january and in which i will take part, will be held in the shadow of the election period in israel itself, where elections will be held two months later and will put israel into a new, post-sharon era. the palestinian authority is nevertheless working tirelessly to ensure that free and democratic elections are held and that the democratic spirit of the palestinian people is once again demonstrated. the legislative council and almost all political parties in palestine want hamas to participate in the elections so that it can have some responsibility for the legislative work. which is expected to lead to more lenient policies and, eventually, disarmament. as regards the electoral process in east jerusalem, it seems that the issue has been settled in the same way as the palestinians had agreed in 1996. and that's really something that's to israel's credit. i still have my doubts whether the israelis will agree to a democratic and fair election campaign in east jerusalem, where it is difficult to hold elections under occupation in general. i will mention only one incident that happened just yesterday: palestinian people's party candidate for jerusalem fatou qader was arrested during a campaign meeting by the israeli occupation army and is in prison for no reason. the elections for the new palestinian legislative council will be the prospect and once again the proof that the palestinians can function democratically. we, as the european parliament and as the european union, have already done a great deal, as the commissioner has said, but we must continue to monitor developments in the region with particular attention and at the same time apply pressure in all directions for substantive talks which will lead in 2006 to significant progress and, very soon, i hope, to a final solution to the problem.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the commissioner for her work in assisting the efforts for peace in the middle east and for enhancing the visibility of the european union in the region. two elections will dominate the developments in the middle east in the coming months. the palestinian election is significant because it is expected to yield a pluralistic result. hamas will participate in that election and is expected to do well. this is the time for the european union, among others, to convince and encourage everybody on the palestinian side that there is only one way: the politically and democratically chosen way, which is incompatible with armed struggle or with terrorism. also, the old and new guard of fatah will find their distinct way of expressing themselves during the legislative elections. that is why the elections have to be free and fair: free from any restrictions on behalf of israel and free from any manipulations from inside. the palestinians must be able to campaign and vote freely in east jerusalem. i hope that the international observers, including our own parliamentary mission, will be able to do their jobs freely, without hindrance and intimidation. the israeli elections are also very interesting because there is now a renewed hope generated by the decision of ariel sharon to leave likud and form a new political movement, joined by others, including shimon peres. the opinion polls have been indicating that we may now have, at long last, a stable israeli government in a truly pluralistic – rather than a multi-fragmented – knesset. from the opinion polls it is obvious that israeli public opinion is adhering to new ideas, giving hope to a pluralistic, realistic, secure, peaceful future, without the wooden positions of the past. alas, the illness of mr sharon is of consternation for all of us, but let us trust israeli society. in the context of the middle east, we cannot ignore, have to be vigilant and alert to any external interferences from factors such as iran, hezbollah and other interconnected factors. it is imperative that the assassins of rafiq hariri are finally brought to justice.
the number of disabled people in the world is vast. i will take the opportunity of mr bowis’ question to focus on two categories of preventable disability in the developing world: child blindness and explosive amputation. as we sit here today, there are approximately one million blind children in the world whose loss of sight could have been prevented; one of the most important causes being easily and cheaply treatable eye infections. at the cost of a few million euros, probably amounting to only a small fraction of one percentage point of our budget, we could have prevented one million children from living in total darkness for the rest of their lives. i dare propose that in addition to the who campaign vision 2020, we attempt to set up and fully finance an eu ‘stop child blindness now’ task force with the aim of eradicating preventable paediatric blindness, as soon as possible, and certainly much sooner than 2020. equally disturbing is the situation with the catastrophic effect of landmines. many thousands of children in developing countries have had their legs and arms traumatically amputated as a result of landmine explosions. before this parliamentary debate is finished, the chances are that a few children somewhere in asia, africa or south africa will have their limbs blown to pieces by these satanic devices. we know very well which countries manufacture, sell and use landmines, yet we do not do enough to stop them and punish them for their evil doings. i dare propose that such countries should be blacklisted as soon as possible and drastic measures, such as a total economic embargo, should be imposed on them by our union and preferably, if possible, by the whole international community. child blindness and landmine-related loss of limbs in children are two forms of serious disability in the developing world that can be prevented to a very large degree, if we show willingness and determination so to do. commissioner, please make the drastic proposal necessary to reduce these forms of disability and be sure that you will have the full support of our parliament.
author. – mr president, mr alberto fujimori, the ex-president of peru, found refuge in japan after his government was accused of a number of corruption and human rights abuse charges. numerous extradition attempts were turned down by japan, but unexpectedly mr fujimori turned up in chile recently as part of a strange attempt to return to political life in peru. subsequently the peruvian attorney-general requested his extradition from chile in order to face a total of 12 charges, including using a death squad to kill 25 people in two separate incidents. we welcome and support the extradition of mr fujimori to peru so that he may face the serious charges against him in a court of law and, if found guilty, be punished accordingly and appropriately. at the same time, i cannot help querying in my mind why it is that, although we expect extradition from chile to take place, we were not so demanding on extradition from japan when it was repeatedly requested in the past.
author. – mr president, i should like to point out to the commissioner that we welcome the decision of the egyptian government to start a full investigation into the incident of 30 december, in which, after the attack by the egyptian police on the sudanese refugee camp in cairo, many deaths and injuries resulted. we hope that the investigation will be thorough and objective. we do not in any way prejudge that the blame for the incident will be placed at the feet of the egyptian authorities. nor are we claiming that the unhcr regional representatives, and certain isolated elements within the refugee protestors, do not necessarily share some of the responsibility for what happened. that is why we feel that it is imperative that a truly independent investigation should be carried out into the incident in which, we should remember, 27 people, including children, died. we are confident that a fair investigation would not only get to the bottom of the problem, but will assist in the prevention of similar incidents occurring in the future.
mr president, my english is not as good as that of my colleague, mr tannock, but i think ‘defiling’ is the wrong word. it is ‘defaming’, is it not? so can we make sure we have the correct wording in that oral amendment?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, first of all i would like to thank véronique de keyser and eduard mcmillan-scott for the efforts they have made along with the other members of this house in their task. the elections have elevated hamas to the top political position and this result must be respected. at the same time, the result should not be surprising. it's a result of many factors, both local and international. the palestinians, despite western declarations, have unfortunately not yet seen the goal of establishing their own independent state advanced. but they have seen the racist policy of the wall and settlement legitimized. the result is a message both to the palestinians at home and to the international community, and in particular to us, about our inadequate policy, which did not press israel to implement the road map and un resolutions to promote a political process, but was only content with economic aid to the palestinians. unfortunately, i am not sure that we have been able to get these messages, since a resolution is being tabled in the european parliament today which is unimportant and unilateral. the european union is not prepared to accept the new government's decision to suspend the peace process, as the united states has said. the european union is also calling on the palestinian authority to take action to ensure that the palestinian people are not left behind. at the same time, the european union and the other members of the quartet should reaffirm their commitment to the creation of an independent palestinian state alongside the state of israel, with east jerusalem as its capital.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my distinguished colleague, helmuth markov, on the effort he has put into this report. i would like to stress two important elements: firstly, the improvement of working conditions and the rights of drivers and, secondly, the responsibility of the member states towards employers in matters of safety, so that the latter can be improved even further in the near future. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised by the fact that the road is not in good condition. the council therefore rejected the proposal which would have allowed the member states' control authorities to carry out checks to determine whether the working time limits laid down in the working time directive are applied and to take account of driver fatigue due to loading or unloading of the vehicle or other factors.
mr president, about two weeks ago an 11-year-old girl collapsed in her classroom in a school in the uk. she was later found to have taken heroin by inhalation. it was reported that she had been taking drugs for a number of months. that is not a unique case: thousands of children in europe are thought to be taking drugs and there is growing evidence that paediatric substance abuse is increasing rapidly. children are very vulnerable and drug addiction in schools can, if allowed to proceed unchecked, soon reach epidemic proportions. many of us believe that the situation is already becoming extremely worrying. therefore, mr president, knowing your – and most colleagues’ – sensitivities on the subject, i respectfully call upon you to request from the commission and the council a statement on the current situation regarding drug addiction among children and the possible need for an urgent review of the strategy as to how best to deal with this alarming problem.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the report on the impact of globalisation on the internal market is based on a misconception that has been promoted for a long time by the european commission in general and which led to the rejection of the constitutional treaty. in other words, instead of identifying social inequalities and promoting their elimination, it resorts to supporting the actors who promote them, in the name of market deregulation. i therefore distinguish three main negative concepts in the report: the first is that we are asking the european union to define a strategy to deal with these challenges by making the internal market more flexible. secondly, we call on the european commission to monitor the emergence of protectionist tendencies in the member states and to report regularly to parliament on any such tendencies. and thirdly, the idea that there is a need to ensure that the major players in the european market find sufficient support and opportunities in the internal market to become players in the world market. it is therefore reasonable to conclude that this report calls for even greater flexibility in labour relations, the abolition of state social intervention and the strengthening of large companies, at a time when various studies are finding that the social consequences of globalisation are highly negative, namely that the 50 million richest europeans and americans have the same income as the 2.7 billion people in the rest of the world. over a billion of the earth's population cannot read or write. the top 20% in rich countries control 82% of exports and 70% of direct investment. three billion people in the world live on less than two dollars a day, while in the united states the poverty line is estimated at 11 dollars a day. so even official statistics don't give a full picture of economic inequality and poverty. finally, a comparison of the years 1960 to 1980 with the years 1980 to 2000, when markets are further internationalised or globalised, shows that progress has clearly slowed down over the last twenty years, when markets are opening up and businesses are operating in conditions of unbridled competition, with small and medium-sized enterprises closing down in favour of multinationals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, with the vote tomorrow on this directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to optical radiation, the eu legislation stipulating minimum health and safety requirements for workers exposed to physical agents will come to a much-awaited and much-needed fulfilment. it is true that this particular proposal proved rather difficult to bring to a finalisation agreement, but thanks to the perseverance and the common-sense approach exhibited by all involved in the conciliation process, all the hurdles were overcome. many congratulations are thus due to our parliament’s delegation, including the rapporteur, mr őry, for the successful outcome of the conciliation procedure. optical radiation arising from artificial sources may, under certain circumstances, cause exposed workers serious eye trauma – including blindness – or severe skin damage, including cancer initiation. this legislation, if properly implemented, will undoubtedly help reduce the chance of such occurrences and will protect many workers from the perils of yet another work-related risk. however, we must not forget that the biggest source of optical radiation is not artificial radiation but the sun, and for most workers skin cancer occurs as a result of exposure to the sun. therefore, at some stage in the future, we have to face this problem and deal with it successfully.
author. – mr president, the destruction and desecration of a cemetery by anyone, anywhere, is a barbarous act. if such a cemetery is also a monument of special archaeological significance, then it is part of our common international heritage and its destruction constitutes, in addition, a crime against humanity. the armenian cemetery at julfa is a christian cemetery of exceptional historical and cultural importance. disregarding an international outcry, azerbaijani governments, whether by omission or – more likely – by commission, have been responsible for the systematic destruction of this monument over the last few years. the actual perpetrators of that atrocious act are thought to be azerbaijani forces and islamic fanatic civilians. it is totally unacceptable for the azerbaijani ambassador in brussels to have recently sent e-mails to meps in which he embarks on a viscous personal attack against one of the authors of this resolution and attempts to denigrate and insult the integrity and wisdom of this parliament. i strongly urge you to vote in favour of this resolution and thus send a very clear message of our feelings of concern and disgrace to the government of azerbaijan for the destruction of the julfa cemetery.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, for the armenian people – the victims of genocide and massive expulsion from their homelands – to witness the destruction of their cultural heritage is perhaps the last chapter in their total deracination. ‘nothing is happening’, say the azerbaijani authorities. i know that where there is smoke there is fire. this total denial reminds me of the total denial that the genocide ever existed, the claim that it is a figment of the armenian imagination. in an exchange of e-mails with me, the political affairs advisor of the azerbaijani embassy wrote, and i quote ‘we cannot exclude that some poor peasants of relevant cultural level might secretly use the stones from the cemetery for building construction or other related works’. i cannot be sure who the perpetrators are, but i am sure that the responsibility for safeguarding the integrity of these monuments is 100% azerbaijani.
mr president, as has already been mentioned, the parents of mr dervis ferho, president of the kurdish institute in brussels and political refugee in belgium for 28 years, were horribly murdered by thugs who, according to information, belong to the turkish state services. the matter is very serious, mr president! last week a march was held in brussels, and the flemish foreign minister sent a letter to the turkish ambassador in brussels asking for an explanation. since turkey is a country which is about to join the european union, and since such behaviour does not exactly fit the european profile it likes to present, i would ask that we, as an institution, also ask for similar explanations for this heinous crime so that we do not give european citizens the impression that we are being directed by particular centres of interest.
mr president, last month commissioner danuda hubner said in an interview with a french business newspaper that we should facilitate immigration into the european union. the commissioner said that this was one of the fundamental principles of the internal market and that the application of artificial rules aimed at restricting it would have negative consequences for the competitiveness of community enterprises. but if the european commission wants to develop a competitive european economy, it would do well to be careful not to destroy the european welfare state in the process, not to destroy the rights of workers or, at least, not to create an environment favourable to companies to destroy them. a competitive european economy is not a bad development for european workers but the means of achieving this goal, as well as the design philosophy, have only created problems for workers. the report by mr hutchinson is undoubtedly a positive step forward. i must welcome and support the report, since i agree with most of it, but i must also point out that it is one of the few reports i have seen recently by a socialist mep which at last seems to be written by a real socialist.
rapporteur. – mr president, firstly, i wish to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the very constructive cooperation afforded to me in the preparation of this report. i also thank all those who submitted amendments and are contributing to the debate on the subject-matter of this strategy document. mercury and its compounds are highly toxic to humans and wildlife. after mercury changes in the environment to methylmercury, the most toxic form, it readily crosses the blood-brain barrier and can cause severe neuronal damage. it also speedily crosses the placental barrier and can therefore affect foetal neural development. mercury poses a global threat as it travels long distances through the atmosphere, crossing national boundaries and contaminating european and global food supplies at levels posing a significant risk to human health. as the eu is the largest mercury exporter in the world, eu leadership in dealing with global mercury hazards is, therefore, clearly an economic, political and moral imperative. eu action, as well as international commitment, is necessary for the protection of human health and the environment. the community strategy concerning mercury, with its integral approach is, therefore, an important contribution in tackling this global threat. in broad terms, the report welcomes the commission communication and emphasises the overall approach taken, with the objective being to reduce and eventually phase out emission and supply of and demand for mercury at european level, as well as to manage the surpluses of mercury and to protect against exposure. in particular, the strategy deals with matters such as: implementing an effective export ban and safe storage; introducing emission limit values for mercury from combustion plants, and other related activities; banning mercury in measuring and control equipment where possible; collecting and treating mercury waste; ensuring the provision of sufficient information and the monitoring of vulnerable population groups; and supporting and promoting international concerted action for dealing with the mercury threat. of note is the recommendation to achieve a ban, where an appropriate and safer alternative exists, in the use of mercury in the manufacture of vaccines. also of note is the exemption from the strategy of instruments of historical importance. with regard to the 13 final amendments before you, i would support amendments nos 3, 4, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12. of special significance, i feel, is amendment no. 10, which essentially reintroduces my original article 17 on dental amalgams. on that issue i wish to say the following. article 17 basically asks the commission to put forward proposals by the end of 2007 to restrict – not to ban immediately – the use of mercury in dental amalgams. the reason is that it is quite unacceptable, in my view, to continue inserting such a potentially toxic substance in people's mouths when safer alternatives exist. in fact, many dentists – my own included – have long since stopped using mercury-containing amalgams, as the more modern alternatives – the white-coloured amalgams – are safer, more aesthetic and cost the same. so, i urge you to vote positively on amendment no. 10. once again, i thank all those who have contributed to the work on this report. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate and thank mr machakis for his report, who has made a great effort to incorporate the views of all my colleagues into this resolution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mercury market is not affected by the mercury crisis. we are of the opinion that the ban on mercury exports from the countries of the european union should have come into force by 2008 at the latest, and not in 2010 as the majority of the commission has argued. we also stress the importance of introducing a stricter regime for exceptions to the above ban. in particular, exceptions should be allowed only where there are no suitable alternatives. finally, we believe that the european union should help developing countries to eliminate mercury as well, by offering not only technical but also financial assistance.
the president of the council. mr president, mr frattini, vice-president of the commission, mrs frattini, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank you on behalf of the presidency for this report on the evaluation of the european arrest warrant, which i have read with great interest. i too share your view from the presidency's point of view that the european arrest warrant is basically a success story. it is certainly a milestone in improving cooperation between the member states of the european union, particularly in our common concern to combat organised crime and terrorism. it is also - and i think we can agree on this - a completely new, innovative and exemplary character that we have here, and that has contributed very much to the fact that we can continue to build on the principle of mutual recognition, which was also mentioned by mrs hazan on several occasions and on which we have agreed since the tampere council. this european arrest warrant is the basis for all the further work we will do in this context. i am particularly pleased that the european parliament shares this view. let 's look back . before that, we had a very slow, cumbersome and often politically dependent extradition procedure. this was a situation that was truly unbearable for all of us who work here. the european arrest warrant framework decision has now been transposed into national law by all 25 member states. the situation today is that we have a rapid, efficient and, in principle, independent judicial transfer procedure. this is already a very important advantage that this framework decision has been able to achieve. it is also important that the duration of the transfer procedures - which my predecessor has already mentioned - could be considerably shortened. the average length of the transfer procedures has been about nine months, but has now been reduced to 40-45 days. this is a very important step forward, especially in terms of fundamental rights. because you all know that under article 5 (3) of the convention on human rights we have an obligation to help speed up the process of arresting people. the framework decision on the european arrest warrant has made it possible for us to meet this obligation in a very significant way. contrary to the fears you have expressed in your report that the decisions of national constitutional courts are critical of some aspects of national implementation, we as the presidency do not see any fundamental opposition to the european arrest warrant in the member states. i cannot say that, and i am sure that is not the case. but we must also remember that it is essential, above all for the confidence of our citizens, that we allow - and this is certainly required by the rule of law - for our highest national courts to review this implementation, which we have carried out at national level in the framework of the framework decision. that is a very important aspect. if this review shows that there is a need for change in national implementation, then that will have to be changed. but what is essential is the confidence of our citizens in what we are doing in europe. it is also important - this has been mentioned and is something that could cause difficulties in interpretation, but i do not see this as critical as it is in your report - that the fundamental rights clause is a model clause, which is not formally a ground for rejection. that is a very important aspect. it is important, however, that we also allow our national courts to fulfil their central task at national level, namely to check whether the protection of fundamental rights is guaranteed in the national legal system. i think there should be no contradiction. but here i see a contradiction in this report in that it points out the danger of discriminatory application of the fundamental rights clause, but also - and i can fully support this - the special protection of human rights and personal freedoms in the application of the european arrest warrant. care must be taken here to avoid any contradiction. the task of the national courts must be, as i have already said, to ensure that the fundamental rights of our citizens are not violated, on the basis of the fundamental rights clause. this too must be part of the european arrest warrant procedure. i would also like to point out in this connection a case brought by belgium before the european court of justice, seeking to have the fundamental aspects of the european arrest warrant examined. we expect the european court of justice to make a clear statement on the question of the legal basis, but also on the list of those offences for which the mutual criminality test is no longer applied. we are waiting for a clear statement on this list of 32 offences, which is being discussed again and again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. further conclusions will then be drawn here, depending on the usefulness and appropriateness of the matter. i would like to make it clear at this point that from the point of view of the presidency of the council it is particularly important that we really see the uniform application of the framework decision in the individual member states of the european union as a central concern. this is necessary if we are to give life to the principle of mutual recognition. it is also common ground that the execution of the european arrest warrant must be carried out in compliance with human rights and, in particular, with procedural guarantees in the executing state. we must also be concerned about this together. the presidency, like the european parliament, is of the opinion that the application and functioning of the european arrest warrant should be further evaluated by means of in-depth and impartial investigations. that is a very important point. we have therefore already decided in the council on a fourth round of mutual evaluation. the work related to this is proceeding according to schedule. here we expect further results from practice, from which any insights for practical implementation in detail can be obtained. as regards the practical application of the european arrest warrant, i would like to say very briefly - also with regard to time - that the information which is easily accessible on the internet, which is provided by the council secretariat, but also by the european judicial network, which is a lasting support for practical implementation, and in particular the judicial atlas, is doing an excellent job here and has thus been able to facilitate very much the direct contact between the judicial authorities, which is so urgently needed for the optimal application of the european arrest warrant. i would also like to point out another important aspect, particularly as regards practical application, namely that the european arrest warrant has also helped to ensure that formalities such as certificates and the like are kept in mind in interstate traffic, because we now know that we do not need to do so if we trust each other and live by the principle of mutual recognition. i believe that the european arrest warrant has also made a very important contribution to this. i am looking forward to the debate and will say a few more words in my closing statement.
the commission's vice-president mr president, madam minister gastinger, madam rapporteur, i think it is fair to say that the european arrest warrant is a landmark measure in european judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which for the first time applies the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions and which i very much hope will soon be supplemented by other instruments, such as the proposal on the european arrest warrant. in addition to the european institutions, it is very important to involve national parliaments in the debate, as was the case last october, during the successful parliamentary sessions organised by this european parliament. i believe that mrs hazan's report has enriched and updated in several respects the conclusions which the commission had drawn on the implementation of the european arrest warrant. we will take this into account when drawing up our second evaluation report on the implementation of the arrest warrant. this second report will be sent to parliament in june. already in january this year the commission presented an implementation of its first report to include italy. a late transposition had not allowed this member state to be taken into account in the first report. i agree with the main points of the proposal for a recommendation to the council. as regards the possibility of extending the list of 32 categories of offences for which the double-entry checks are being abolished, as indicated in the proposal for a recommendation, i think i can say that i think any possible progress in this direction is a priori desirable. however, the commission will ensure that the coherence between the various mutual recognition instruments is preserved. the commission therefore reserves the right to submit proposals to amend the framework decision in the light of longer experience. mr president, i now leave the floor to the debate, at the end of which i shall probably make some further remarks.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, madam president of the council, mrs hazan's report is excellent. i am in agreement with all the suggestions and remarks he has made. congratulations to you, mrs hazan! ladies and gentlemen, the european arrest warrant is a test of the spirit of cooperation and the spirit of mutual respect and trust between the member states of the european union. it is a major step towards the creation of a single area of justice and security, but also a powerful measure to combat crime. no more absconding, no more complicated political procedures for extraditing suspected criminals. the arrogant appeal by some member states to national sovereignty, human rights and the supposed superiority of their national law in order to circumvent the european arrest warrant is dangerous. the fundamental obligation of each member state individually and of all member states in general to respect and apply human rights in judicial proceedings is a given and cannot be unduly questioned. the institution must be strengthened and this requires three steps: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, that the council should adopt as soon as possible the proposal on the harmonization of minimum criteria in criminal proceedings. thirdly, to remove any constitutional obstacle to the implementation of the european arrest warrant. the european parliament has already been asked to vote on the amendments to the constitution, which are being discussed in the committee on institutional affairs. the fight against crime is not just a national affair. it is pan-european! and that is why we must all help to strengthen the european arrest warrant.
mr president, with regard to paragraph 29 of the report, the council's decision on the financial aid package for the turkish cypriots was a step in the right direction and i would like to thank the minister for that. the trade issue can still be dealt with in the framework of the recent agreement to discuss a package of confidence-building measures. the joint communiqué following the un secretary-general's meeting in paris with president papadopoulos states, inter alia, that it would be beneficial for all concerned and would greatly improve the atmosphere for further talks if progress could be made on further disengagement and demilitarisation on the island, the complete demining of cyprus and the issue of famagusta. in particular, progress on the sandbox issue could lead to progress on the trade issue. the proposal of the government of cyprus is well known, according to which the return of famagusta to its legal residents and the reopening of the port of famagusta could solve the problem of trade to and from the occupied areas. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
mr president, the jericho events have been long debated by colleagues, this morning and later, but in the committee on quality of life, exchanges between civil societies and culture the issue of the cartoons will certainly come up. we must be unequivocal in condemning the content of the cartoons. respect for the religious values and identity of others, such as muslim fellow european citizens, is a european value and only stupidity cannot understand it, but in europe we are obliged to defend even the right of stupidity to express itself freely, and our arab partners must understand it. on the issue of migration, the new initiatives by the commission and the recent decisions by the council to manage migratory flows instead of talking only about illegal immigration are commendable. policies such as the well-anticipated and organised legal reception of migrants needed in the domestic markets, the establishment of brain circulation as opposed to a brain drain, facilitation of remittances, civic integration of migrants, the single asylum policy and so forth will be more appealing to our mediterranean partners. it is true that some of these countries have changed from countries of origin or transit to terminals. that is why we need to work together, by sharing technical means, expertise and responsibility, to fight the trafficking of human beings and illegal immigration.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr trakatelli, i must congratulate you on the really excellent work you have done on such a complex subject and i agree with you on many things, but mainly on the increase in the financial framework for the programme. however, i cannot agree with your wish not to mention specific diseases by name, which are also the big killers and are certainly not shopping lists, as mr krahmer said. cancer: one in four deaths is due to cancer. one in three european citizens will develop some form of cancer during their lifetime. cardiovascular disease: increased risk of heart attack and stroke. cause of death number one. - if you have a history of rheumatic diseases: over 150 diseases and syndromes. one in five europeans is in chronic treatment for rheumatic disease or arthritis. rheumatism is the second most common reason for visiting the doctor. in most countries, 20% of primary care is for rheumatism. then other diseases, such as diabetes and mental illness. since the diseases i have mentioned affect such a large proportion of the european population and are so directly linked to the quality of life of europeans, i am of the opinion that they should be included nominally in this programme. i have therefore tabled an amendment on behalf of my group, amendment no 156, which i would ask you to vote in favour of. it is a fact that the wealthy members of our society enjoy immediate and easy access, not only to health information, but also to health services. they are well informed about health risks and threats and have the possibility to consult doctors regularly and in a timely manner. in contrast, dysfunctional people do not have immediate and easy access to information and are almost certain to wait a long time for medical care. we must therefore make a great effort to include the needs of these groups and the organisations that represent them in our health systems. we need to take their experiences into account in order to create health systems specifically designed to meet the needs of discriminated and disadvantaged europeans. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
mr president, i congratulate mr trakatellis on his report, which was excellent as expected. an important aspect of the eu's health problem is protection against disease through prevention. the three main preventable curses affecting human health – tobacco, excessive alcohol and poor nutrition – are responsible for the premature deaths of millions of european citizens every year. tobacco especially is thought to be implicated in the cause of death of one in every three smokers. smoking kills far more people than drug addiction, road traffic accidents and hiv infection all put together. so, with tobacco being such a big killer, are we really doing enough to help our citizens get rid of this self-destructive habit? i think not quite enough. first, we continue to subsidise tobacco growing in the eu. surely this is unwise, as has been mentioned by many colleagues already. second, we allow the ever-more powerful multinational tobacco manufacturers to lobby and influence important decision-making centres freely; they certainly freely lobby meps. third, we lag behind in implementing an effective information strategy. for instance, we put scary warnings on cigarette packets which nobody takes any notice of any more, whereas the tobacco companies pay for movie star idols to smoke on screen. we have no structured anti-smoking teaching programmes in our schools. we build expensive hospital departments to treat patients suffering from serious diseases caused by smoking, and yet we tolerate many doctors working in such departments giving the worst possible example by smoking in public themselves. many member states pay for expensive departments for smoking-related diseases, but they do not pay for smokers to go on anti-smoking programmes before they become ill. finally, many member states still leave passive smokers at the mercy of smokers, be it at work or in places of entertainment. now that we have a strongly anti-smoking health commissioner it is perhaps time to wage a truly full-scale war on the tobacco giants of death and be reasonably optimistic of winning.
member of the commission. mr president, i shall briefly make a few comments on the issues raised by the members. i would like to thank them for the very interesting debate we had, and now we have the advantage of having them split into two parts, but i still think the issues raised here today were very interesting. i know i tend to repeat myself, but many of the issues raised will face financial challenges; so issues such as support for consumer organisations or increased support for consumer organisations, or even more active/strengthened initiatives in the new member states will be affected by the final outcome of the budget discussions. nevertheless, especially on the issue of the new member states, i agree that there is a need for priority, not so much having a separate strategy – and this has already been described in the morning session – but rather giving priority and emphasis and focusing on the newest member states, at least those where the consumer protection tradition is less apparent than in other member states. these will be reflected, as you will see in the near future, in the consumer strategy which is being drawn up in a more detailed way, and you will see how the focus will be concentrated on the new member states, especially in education, in the training of consumer organisations and in areas where we could strengthen consumer protection mentality. on the issue of vulnerable groups, i agree that certain consumer groups need increased protection. again, i am not sure if inclusion or specific provision in the programme is the best way to achieve this; nevertheless, in specific actions, in specific initiatives and legislation, we should take into account the particular needs of vulnerable groups, children for example. i refer you to the relatively recent legislation we have adopted jointly on unfair commercial practices, where we take into account vulnerable consumer groups. there is a misunderstanding about the agency. i see that mr stubb is not here this afternoon, but the proposal for an agency is not in the sense of an agency that will be formulating policy or taking initiatives in the area of consumer protection; it will be an executive agency, it will be a management body which will do the accounting and all the practical aspects that do not involve policy. it will actually operate from the practical accounting management aspect, so it will free the resources we have in the commission actually to promote and propose policies. we already have an executive agency for the health programme, and this is something that has been working very well because it makes better use of resources, and we propose something similar now for consumer protection. so, it is not a separate agency or institution in the sense that it was described today by the speaker of the group concerned. i said a few things about splitting this morning. i understand parliament’s position. before we take our final decision, we will wait to see the outcome of the discussion on the financial perspectives, so at this point we do not agree: we still feel that there are benefits in having a joint programme whilst safeguarding the specific needs and financing provisions of the two areas. nevertheless, we will revisit this issue once we have a specific picture in front of us regarding the budget. finally, i have taken the point on services on board. we are already funding programmes for consumers in relation to services as well. one point on the consumer protection area in general is that we should always bear in mind the benefits of offering consumer protection, not just for the consumers, not just for the protection of the citizen, but also the benefits that increased consumer confidence will have on the internal market, the economic growth that this will promote and, of course, the competitiveness of the european economy. once again, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the members of the committee for their strong support of this programme, and i am looking forward to working with them in the consumer protection area in the following period.
author. – mr president, despite an international outcry, transnistria, which illegally declared independence from the moldovan republic 12 years ago after an armed conflict involving russian military support, continues to exist, along with the deep-rooted corruption within its undemocratic authoritarian regime. the situation is of great concern, not just because of the violation of the human rights of the citizens of this region, but also because it continues to be a source of conflict and instability between moldova and ukraine. a border crisis could easily escalate, with unforeseen consequences. it is of the utmost importance that, through the exhibition of goodwill, common sense and a desire for peace and reform, all parties directly involved in the transnistrian dispute – namely moldova, the transnistrian region of moldova, ukraine and russia – refrain from any action that may cause the deterioration of the already heated situation and proceed immediately to fully engage themselves in honest negotiations in order to speedily reach an amicable solution to the problem.
author. – mr president, the fight against impunity should be one of the cornerstones of the union’s policy in the field of human rights. that principle applies only too well to africa, in parts of which numerous horrific human rights abuses have occurred, sometimes on a massive scale. unfortunately, however, the perpetrators of these crimes have rarely been brought to justice and the victims are very frequently denied any form of effective remedy. it is imperative that infamous people like charles taylor, colonel mengistu and chad’s devious exiled former president hissène habré face trial in an internationally recognised court of law in respect of the atrocities and crimes against humanity they have allegedly carried out. it is truly shameful and distinctly disgraceful for the governments of countries like zimbabwe, nigeria and senegal to continue to be an obstacle to the course of justice by providing a safe refuge to such alleged criminals. it is my view that if these governments ignore what this resolution calls for, then the eu, in conjunction with the international community, must consider taking more drastic, peaceful action to force a proper remedy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the great question that my political group raises is not only about the policies specifically envisaged for 2007, but also about the doubts we have about the wider strategic direction given to the european construction as a whole. it is unacceptable that we should witness every day the stormy anxiety and protests that have been stirred up by the new anti-people labour laws in france; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is unacceptable for the union to be playing catch-up by pursuing policies which promote the interests of large enterprises rather than those of workers. it is a continuation of the lisbon strategy, which is allegedly being described as 'revised' in an attempt to disorient workers. has it been revised or changed in substance since it was first decided? or has it succeeded in promoting the development of a social policy agenda aimed at ensuring basic social standards, quality in employment and reconciliation of work and private life? no, my dear colleagues. in the name of competitiveness, the acquis of labour is being fired at every day by a capitalist europe. working hours are getting longer, wages are falling, collective agreements are being abolished, unemployment and income inequality are increasing and the welfare system is being completely eroded, with young people as the main victims. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, policies are being promoted that allegedly make immigration more orderly. but how can this be done when the objective is again the criteria set to safeguard europe's economic interests, when on the territory of the union migrants and persons in need of international protection are being held in prison conditions having committed the sole crime of seeking a human life. european funds should not finance policies to strengthen closed borders, deportations and repatriations but to address the real causes of migration, and to promote human rights in practice within the framework of a mutually beneficial neighbourhood policy, away from the logic of world trade organisation and world bank reforms and outside the logic of military interventions.
mr president, next week in cyprus is the commemoration day for those who lost their lives in the 1955 popular uprising against british colonial rule. hundreds of civilians, including women and children, were killed or executed by the british army during the four-year freedom struggle which ended in 1959, after britain was forced to grant cyprus a form of independence. today, cyprus and britain, in a spirit of forgiveness and reconciliation, are friends and partners though membership of the eu, and they cooperate closely in trying to achieve peace and prosperity. unfortunately, however, this relationship is at risk of being poisoned because of the continued presence of british troops in cyprus. about ten thousand british soldiers are stationed in an area amounting to approximately four per cent of the territory of the island, known as sovereign british bases. many thousands of cypriot civilians live in these areas in which the acquis communautaire, strangely, does not apply. their human rights are being profoundly violated by britain. i appeal to my british colleagues to understand the feelings and respect the rights of the cypriot people and to exert pressure on their government to return this territory of the british bases back to its rightful owners: the people of cyprus. i know this is a sore point, but i hope you will agree with me that it is totally unacceptable for britain, an eu member state, to occupy part of another eu member state, cyprus.
mr president, last week in diyarbakir, turkey, four people were killed and about 500 injured when riots broke out after a funeral. all the victims are kurds while the perpetrators are the turkish police special forces. the turkish army launched a crackdown on the kurdish workers' party 15 days ago, in which 14 people were killed. the turkish government has clearly demonstrated by these actions that it does not intend to solve this problem through democratic procedures but through violence, where the strongest will be the last to stand. we are therefore complicit in the extermination of a people while at the same time bringing turkey into the european parlours. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, freedom of expression and peaceful demonstration is a fundamental part of the acquis. unfortunately, in a large area bordering my home town of limassol, this freedom of expression is not permitted, because the acquis is not applicable there. that area has been under british military occupation since colonial times, and although it is part of cyprus and is inhabited by cypriot civilians, britain made sure that it was left outside the eu. therefore the european acquis does not apply there. last saturday – freedom day for cyprus – a cypriot civilian attempted a peaceful demonstration against the presence of british bases in cyprus. he did not disturb anybody and did not trespass onto military property. within minutes he was attacked by british soldiers pointing submachine guns at him and threatening to shoot him. he was detained on a public road against his will at gunpoint until military police and the local press arrived. he was released when it was realised that he was a member of parliament – this parliament! how long will this house tolerate having british troops occupying part of another member state and subjecting its citizens to such harassment?
mr president, the commissioner spoke earlier about reception centres. but i want to tell you that what we saw, those of us who participated in the civil liberties commission's mission to malta, is anything but a reception centre. it is unacceptable and scandalous that europe, in the shadow of a crisis of anti-terrorist hysteria, should turn itself into a medieval fortress and promote the operation of detention centres where migrants and asylum seekers are held in prison, contrary to the relevant international conventions. the conditions in the closed detention centres we visited in malta are perhaps the worst we have seen so far. the geographical situation of malta, as well as its inability to cope economically and administratively with the waves of trafficking, especially after its accession to the european union, which resulted in an increase in the flow of migrants and refugees, are not grounds for justifying the situation. the practice of detention is itself reprehensible. the deprivation of liberty of asylum seekers and migrants is unjustified. the conditions in which they are held are poor and the lack of transparency in the way the centres operate and the practices followed are unacceptable.
mr president, needless to say i totally disagree with the previous speaker, with all respect. i wish to congratulate mrs prets on a thorough and carefully set out report. it is universally recognised that the programme of the european city of culture, or european capital of culture as it was later renamed, is a well-tried and very useful concept and much credit must be given to those who set it up back in the mid-1980s, especially to the then greek culture minister, melina mercouri. she was indeed an inspirational and talented woman who, in her stormy life, fought courageously for democracy and for the promotion of european unity through culture. programmes such as the one we are discussing tonight indisputably help bring european citizens closer together and strengthen the bonds between them. they help promote understanding amongst our people and increase the appreciation of and respect for each others’ diverse but unifying cultural history. over the years some problematic areas have been identified and this commission proposal, which will eventually be amended by parliament, will no doubt improve and enhance the programme further. hopefully, in speaking in what is for me a foreign language – english – i am assisting in unifying our european aspiration to have a common language of communication some time in the future. on the basis of the experience gained in the 20 years that the programme has been in operation, and due to changes necessitated by the recent enlargement, a review is now urgently needed. two of the main alterations necessary are improvements in the selection procedure to be followed and putting a system in place that will ensure that once a city is chosen, a well-planned programme will be carried out successfully. i would like to highlight the wisdom of two innovations of the proposal: the pairing-up system and the prize. i do not have time to go into detail. i once again congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report.
mr president, a few days ago american diplomats were forbidden to make contact with officials in any palestinian government agency controlled by hamas. at the same time, canada suspended aid to the palestinian authority and president bush stated that he would not agree to aid a hamas-led government. however, one has to understand that hamas was elected in a free and fair election. i welcome the recent statements made by mr haniyeh that his government would cooperate with mr abbas, which seems to transmit a softer image of hamas. yesterday the ministry of foreign affairs made the same statement. we must continue to endorse the quartet’s statements that the new palestinian government needs to commit itself to the principles of non-violence, the recognition of israel and the acceptance of previous agreements and obligations, including the roadmap. we must never forget that suspending aid to the palestinians would make it look as though we were directly punishing the palestinian people for their choice, and subsequently we would increase their suffering. the european parliament has to contribute to all possible efforts to restore peace, not only between israel and palestine, but also in the wider middle east region.
mr president, good health is invaluable and it is thus not surprising that in the developed world we invest so much in healthcare and we expect to receive the best treatment whenever the need arises. but to have an effective healthcare system in operation, we need healthcare workers, people who are well trained, committed, and who are devoted to the care of their fellow human beings. the healthcare workers are the backbone of our health systems and to them we owe more than words can express. however, the case with the developing world regarding health is, unfortunately, completely and shamefully different. there, good health is mostly the exception rather than the rule. allow me to give you some figures in order to illustrate the point. one index figure that can be used to assess health provision in a country is, as has already been mentioned, the infant mortality rate. that is a measure of how many infants die per 1000 live births. the infant mortality rate in a country like sweden, germany or france – in fact most eu states – is around five deaths per 1000 live births. the corresponding figure in countries like mozambique, sierra leone and liberia is about 140 deaths per 1000 live births, and in angola it is about 200 deaths per 1000 live births. in other words, the chance of an infant dying in angola is about 4000% more than it is in an eu country. a premature or ill baby in angola has a next to nil chance of surviving. in many third world countries basic healthcare is almost totally lacking and the few brave health workers who find themselves in those countries have to battle against all the odds to save life and limb. they have to cope with lack of infrastructure, lack of equipment, lack of medicines and a lack of understanding of hygiene by the population. very often they are persecuted, arrested, tortured or murdered when caught up in local wars or social uprisings. in these areas, to be a health worker should be regarded as being a hero. these people deserve not just our admiration and respect but our active support, and we must do our utmost to provide them with all the help they need. we owe it to them and we owe it to our conscience.
member of the commission. mr president, i agree with the speakers that the joint parliamentary assembly has become an accepted, respected forum for dialogue. the resolutions adopted by this assembly sometimes even launch debates that go beyond that forum. mr bowis mentioned the resolution on reach, adopted here in november last year, which has led to a much more focused discussion about the impact of reach on the developing countries. the next joint parliamentary assembly also promises to be interesting. it will deal with such important issues as the role of regional integration in the promotion of peace and security, the problematic issue of energy in the acp countries and the social and environmental aspects of fisheries in developing countries. i know from my colleague, mr michel, that he is very much looking forward to attending those meetings. on the sugar issue, i am indeed familiar with the issue of funding for the sugar protocol countries. we have had this discussion before. i should just like to reiterate that eur 40 million is available in 2006. what is more important is that we do not forget that the impact of the price drop agreed within the european union will not have an effect on the acp countries until 2008. they have another two years to try to adapt their production with the money available from the european union. you know that considerable funds will be available from 2007 until 2013. in the european union we have shown that we also have a responsibility towards those countries that will be affected by internal legislation concerning the need – that i am quite sure everybody feels – to adapt our agricultural policy to a more global trade.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. the commission is particularly keen on ensuring that the aid it manages serves the objectives of combating and ultimately eradicating poverty, and in that respect the power management of financial resources is crucial. hence the decision to make governance in general a horizontal and central theme in the programming of the tenth edf, because combating corruption can only be successful when embedded in a broader agenda of capacity building. in this context we share the view of the rapporteur, mr van den berg, on the importance and scale of the problem. corruption is indeed a major obstacle to development. it hits the poorest in developing countries the hardest. it is responsible for political instability and the violation of human rights, and it reduces the level of resources available for development funding. secondly, we agree that corruption is a very complex phenomenon which needs to be addressed through a whole range of different measures. international agreements are important, and the report notes that the un convention on corruption still has to be ratified by several of our member states. we need to work with private-sector organisations, and we need civil society watchdogs. in our assistance programmes we have various measures to support good governance, such as reforms of the legal system, support for supreme audit institutions, assistance for civil society, and support for national parliaments, which was the subject of a debate at the recent acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. we already support civil society watchdogs, for instance transparency international chapters in some countries. thirdly, on budget support, mr van den berg pays particular attention to that, and rightly so, not because it is especially prone to corruption, but because it is part of the solution. its big advantage is that it directly addresses a major source of corruption in many countries, namely the weak management of public finances. our budget support goes only to those countries which are clearly committed to reforming their public finance system and, by strengthening sensitive areas like public procurement, it makes an important contribution to the fight against corruption. project-type assistance, on the other hand, is heavily based on public procurement but cannot address weaknesses in the system. you are aware of the special report by the court of auditors on public finance management in the framework of budget support in acp countries, which supports the approach adopted by the commission. i also want to highlight the importance of the harmonisation agenda, which was the focus of the paris forum on aid effectiveness held in march this year and emphasises the importance of strengthening beneficiary country systems of financial management and control, which is precisely one of the things that we are doing. one note of caution, however: budget support is not earmarked for a specific sector, but specific sectoral reform measures and targets can establish the conditions for the funds which are, of course, paid into the general budget. fourthly, the paris declaration on aid effectiveness also underlines the importance of improving the transparency of public procurement procedures in our partner countries. those procedures are often a source of corruption. my last point concerns our colleagues in the field. one of the key objectives of the devolution process is to ensure that aid is more closely supervised in the field and to make the most of the detailed local knowledge of our ‘in-country’ staff. delegations can check that aid is properly used. moreover, for some kinds of contract we now require external audits before we make the final payment, and a comprehensive system for programming external audits was introduced in 2003, covering audits to be launched both by headquarters and by delegations. in summary, we share much of mr van den berg’s analysis. we think more attention could be paid to public procurement issues, and we think some of the detailed measures proposed need to be reviewed and discussed further.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, many congratulations to mr van den berg for his excellent report. the scourge of corruption is neither new nor rare. it has accompanied human activity since ancient times and is widespread amongst both the developing and the developed countries – the only difference being that in the developed countries, it is practised more professionally and more elegantly and is thus more difficult to recognise. so, with corruption being so common and extensive, how effective have attempts made at international level to curb it actually been? not very, i am afraid. the estimated amount of usd 1 trillion paid in bribes today is not less than the corresponding amount in previous years; in fact, it is more. the reason is simple: corruption cannot be controlled by signing conventions and declarations alone, but only by the strict implementation of such conventions and declarations by all concerned. to that effect, we in the developed world must set a good example. while passing judgment on corruption in the developing world, let us look at ourselves. also, let us consider critically our own state of affairs and let us analyse ourselves by asking some simple questions. how free from corruption is a system that allows united states government officials at the highest level – names like cheney and rumsfeld come to mind – allegedly to be involved and have a personal interest in companies awarded multi-million contracts in iraq and afghanistan? how corruption-free is it to have the wife of the prime minister of britain, mrs blair, working for a large law firm and taking up highly politically sensitive cases, which directly involve and are affected by political decisions taken by her husband? should not the roman proverb that caesar’s wife must not only be honest but must also be seen to be honest apply here? how free from corruption is a system that allows united nations officials and other related persons, including the son of the united nations secretary-general, to be accused of involvement in oil-for-aid scandals? closer to home, how corruption-free can the system be seen to be when members, or their close relatives, of the european parliament and other eu institutions, involved in making legislation, are at the same time members of boards of companies, or are stakeholders in companies which stand to make huge profits from such legislation? is a simple declaration of interest really good enough? lastly, may i draw your attention to two amendments by mr kristovskis, concerning recital n and paragraph 22. these amendments correct a mistake that was made in the original report in recital n, in which cyprus was omitted from the list of eu member states that have not yet ratified the 1997 oecd convention. in fact, cyprus has repeatedly attempted to participate in the oecd, but turkey, for political reasons unrelated to the subject, blocked such participation. by voting positively for these two amendments, we will make it possible for malta, lithuania, latvia and cyprus to ratify the oecd convention.
mr president, i note that we finished 20 minutes early today. perhaps i could make the suggestion that in future the president be given, or have at his disposal, the option to continue the debate on a catch-the-eye basis if we finish so early, so that we can make more efficient use of parliament’s time.
mr president, the situation in south-east turkey is indeed extremely worrying but should not surprise anyone. violence and gross abuse of human rights, largely by the turkish state, have been practised on and off in that region for decades and they will continue to occur for many years to come unless the turkish government recognises that the kurdish problem will not go away simply by giving the army generals a free hand to deal with it in the only way they know how: by brute force. the turkish government must understand that the millions of kurdish people living in the region must have their human rights fully respected. they must have the right to use their own language, kurdish, and to uphold their traditions and culture. furthermore, the turkish government must accept that the kurdish people are entitled to a degree of autonomy. if such an eventuality were to be negotiated, it would not adversely affect the wellbeing of the turkish people; through the establishment of long-lasting stability, it would bring peace and prosperity to the whole of turkey. in addition, the turkish government must take the brave step of acceding to the recent request by kurdistan democratic party leader masood barzani to accept the federal structure of iraq and to declare a general amnesty for pkk militants. mr erdogan’s government has given signs of aspiring to achieve drastic democratic reforms in turkey. we know that such reforms are greatly resisted by the deeply entrenched military establishment. the turkish people must understand that those who resist change are in fact the real enemies of turkey. mr erdogan is fighting a difficult battle, full of danger, with the army generals. we must encourage and support him because, if the generals win, turkey’s progress towards democratisation will be halted, as will its progress towards eu accession, and the country will sink once again into the backwardness of military totalitarian control.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, ‘nearly three years after united states and allied forces invaded iraq and toppled the government of saddam hussein, the human rights situation in the country remains dire’. that is the introductory sentence to the most recent report by amnesty international on detention and torture in iraq. well-documented reports like that and many others make very grim reading indeed, recounting instances of arbitrary detention, widespread torture including brutal beatings, the breaking of bones, electric shocks, pulling nails out, hanging chained people from the ceiling, causing burns, rape and sexual humiliation, attacks by dogs, extrajudicial killings and many more. colleagues, these despicable crimes are not happening in evil hussein’s prisons, but in us- and british-controlled and run prisons. we rightly blamed hussein for what was happening more than three years ago. must we not now blame bush and blair and hold them responsible for the gross disrespect of human life and dignity occurring in prisons in iraq today? after all, we in the west must ensure that we set the highest standards and are not found guilty of the ill-treatment of fellow human beings whose lives are in our hands.
mr president, since 30 march we have been watching with horror an extremely dangerous deterioration of the situation in the occupied palestinian territories. according to the official briefing given by the un special coordinator for the middle east to the security council, 40 people have been killed in the last month, including at least 3 palestinian children. but the vicious cycle of violence continued with suicide attacks. we condemn acts of violence against civilians, which can only bring pain and further suffering. this worsening of the situation does not help to solve the problem. the european union is called upon and must play its part in dealing with the situation by actively contributing to the stabilization and resumption of the talks to resolve the palestinian problem. we want to express our support for the recent statement by palestinian president mahmoud abbas expressing his readiness to resume talks with israel and our disappointment, commissioner, at the recent rejection of this proposal by the israeli government. but how can the situation be stabilised when the european council decides to freeze funds to the palestinian authority, aid funds linked to whether or not the palestinian people can survive - even with difficulty - and, at the same time, strengthen its state structures as a guarantee for the future creation of an independent palestinian state? and what message are we sending to the israelis with this decision? how is the state of israel receiving it? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the position to take a decision on the matter. until may 9th when the quartet comes to, no one knows how late it will be. i would also like to comment on the statement by mr batten on the 'sad' decision taken by the palestinian people. if it is possible, ladies and gentlemen, to call a decision taken in a free democratic way, and under occupation, by a people in elections which we have described as fair and transparent, 'sad'.
mr president, i am sure that the decision that was taken about the suspension of aid was the correct one. it was a correct one taken easily – not lightly, but easily – because it is an adherence to principles. however, the difficult task now begins. we are at a crossroads. i am certain, looking back in history, that if there was a terrorist list 30 years ago, the plo would have been on it. what was said today about hamas, and whatever there is in its statute and its declarations, also applied to the plo 50 years ago. and yet the plo became an interlocutor with israel in seeking peace. therefore we must spare no effort in encouraging hamas to change its position and come round to a position that we hope will promote the peace process. it is not that difficult to achieve, provided that we give the organisation some space: perhaps renunciation of violence, maybe an indefinite ceasefire for a long period of time, or something of that nature. the second difficult task is yours, madam commissioner; i am sure you will do it with great effectiveness and dedication. as you very rightly said, we must not penalise the palestinian people, the aid will go to the palestinian people provided that they understand that they are not paying the price for a choice they made during free and democratic elections.
mr president, the day before yesterday was the 91st anniversary of the armenian genocides. this atrocious crime against humanity was committed against the armenian people of the ottoman empire during world war i. it was centrally planned and administered by the turkish government of the time and resulted in the demise of approximately 1.5 million men, women and children. most deaths occurred after horrific acts of torture, massacre and starvation. in remembering those innocent victims of ottoman barbarism we must renew our demand to the turkish government of today to overcome its criminal obstinacy of total denial of the armenian genocides and at least, even with so much delay, have the decency to say sorry to the armenian people for the abominable holocaust inflicted on them.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur mr mavrommatis for the hard work he has put into preparing this excellent report. it is undeniable that in a union of 25, soon to be 27 different nations, having almost half a billion inhabitants and more than 20 official languages, it is imperative for individual citizens to be able to command the use of more than merely their mother tongue. to this end, measures to promote multilingualism and language learning through the introduction of a european indicator of language competence seem essential and reports like the one before us this morning deserve our full support. however, is this really the answer to achieving the best communication possible between european citizens? would this level of communication be achieved in the most efficient and most economic way? my answer to both of these questions is no. to substantiate my position, let me use the example of our parliament, which represents a much-scaled-down model of the multilingual eu. in this house, representing 25 member states, we communicate using 20 different languages. in fact it is laid down in the treaties establishing this union that we have the right to use our mother tongue to communicate in the organs of the eu. this is all very well, but what does it mean in practice? it means that at any given part-session there can be up to 400 cross-interpretations in this room. if i were to speak in my mother tongue, greek, to my estonian colleague, then what i say in greek has to be translated first into most probably english or french and then translated for the second time from english or french into estonian. for my estonian colleague to answer to me, then the reverse translation route has to be followed. this is not a 21st-century way of conducting communication in europe. not to mention the enormous amount of paperwork that is translated into 20 different languages and not to mention that approximately half the european parliament’s budget for running costs is spent on interpretation and translation. therefore, the real answer to better communication in a united europe is for all of us to use only one working language of communication. yes, we have to be seen to protect and preserve our national pride and culture, but we must also progress with the times and strive for a betterment of the unity and efficiency of our european family. after all, how united can a family be if every member speaks a different language? the true unity of europe will be achieved when we have a common working language of communication. this is in fact going to happen in the future whether we like it or not. it is inevitable. looking at statistics today we see that approximately 38% of eu citizens can use english as a language of communication with french coming second at approximately 14% only. therefore, why can we not be brave enough to take the commonsense step and at the same time as supporting multilingualism start laying down the foundations for deciding which second language will be the common language for europe? yes, let us face the facts, let us be practical and honest and let us say that this second language has to be english.
mr president, the reflection period ends in 2007 and i imagine that is why commission president barroso presented the commission's position last week. i regret to note, however, that the commission insists on bringing the issue of the european constitution back to the surface, without any european-wide consultation of citizens having taken place to date. in the same presentation, mr barroso also spoke of a citizens' agenda, where there will be more solidarity between citizens in the future. i wonder what measures will be taken to strengthen this solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. in conclusion, i believe it is our duty as an institution to devote at least one more sitting to the european parliament by the deadline of 2007 to discussing this very serious issue.
i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. at the first reading of the report on nutrition and health claims made on foods, parliament adopted a number of amendments designed to facilitate the application of this regulation to the benefit of consumers. the majority opposed the regulation of nutrients in food, rejecting article 4 and thus considerably weakening the regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's food safety policy is not distorted by the introduction of the new food law, which is a fundamental element of the european union's food policy. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept it. but given the difficulty of reaching a compromise and the need for european consumers to have such a regulation, i would urge that we all support at least the compromise amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided to the european consumer is correct.
mr president, the regulation on the addition of vitamins and minerals and certain other substances to food is a most important piece of legislation and has a very significant bearing on the safety and wellbeing of consumers in the eu. mrs scheele is to be congratulated on the excellent way she has dealt with the subject. congratulations are also due to the commissioner, mr kyprianou, for the open and responsibly cautious way he has approached the subject. the reason for my short contribution is to add my voice of support concerning the need for bio-availability and establishment of safe maximum amounts of vitamins and minerals, as well as the need for an accurate but fully comprehensible system of labelling and consumer information. especially with regard to the latter, it is absolutely imperative that european consumers must be able to have at their disposal and be able to read and understand scientifically proven and honest information. that may, after all, be essential in order to protect themselves and their families against ingesting excessive and possibly harmful amounts of vitamins and minerals.
mr president, it is widely accepted that both bulgaria and romania have done a great deal towards joining the european union, and i am pleased that the european union remains firm in its 'yes' to these two countries. there are of course shortcomings. there were deficits in all countries before they joined the european union. but they covered it up. i am sure that both bulgaria and romania will use this time they have, working day and night, to prove that they are capable of getting what we have promised them. the 'january train' for their integration and their union with the european family. this is the historic challenge and i am sure that with our help and that of the commission and all the other players, these peoples will prove themselves to be great and will be part of the european union's family on 1 january 2007.
madam president, i wish mrs roth-behrendt a speedy recovery. she has produced an excellent report, dealing with the subject matter under discussion most diligently. consequently i voice my support for her position on almost all aspects of her report except one: the issue of fishmeal. fishmeal is a rich source of protein and it is extremely nourishing to animals, including ruminants. such animals are able to metabolise the proteins contained in fishmeal and use them for their structural and energy needs. therefore the use of fishmeal to feed animals provides the farming industry with an efficient low-cost diet supplement. there are two main issues concerning feeding fishmeal to ruminants. the first is how ethically correct it is to feed animal protein to animals that do not normally eat such protein. that is indeed controversial. it remains, however, an ethical issue and not one that concerns the aim of the regulation at hand today, which is to prevent, control and eradicate certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. the second – and most relevant – question is the following: can certain tses be transmitted from fishmeal to ruminants? the answer, based on scientific evidence so far available, is ‘no’. to my knowledge, there has never been a documented case of tse being transmitted from fishmeal to a ruminant, even though fishmeal has, in the past, been used extensively by farmers and the practice continues today on many farms outside the eu. of course we have the precautionary principle to consider. but how far can we take that principle when we have no hard evidence that tses can pass from fish to ruminants? we know that, in the highly unlikely event of such evidence being found, we could halt the practice straight away. the precautionary principle works well only when used with caution. otherwise it can be a severe impediment to our existence. for example, why do we not ban travelling in order to prevent transport-related deaths and injuries? after all, we humans eat fish, and we are not worried about contracting fish-derived spongiform encephalopathy, something that is far more likely than for a cow to contract it from fishmeal. had she been here, i know i would not have managed to convince mrs roth-behrendt of my point that fishmeal is good as a ruminant food, but i hope that i have provided the rest of my colleagues with food for thought.
mr president, i would first like to thank mr böge for his excellent effort, but the agreement reached on the financial perspective package for 2007-13 between the three institutions of the european union does not satisfy us as a group. following the compromise agreement between the european parliament and the council, the budget for the financial perspective 2007-13 is severely inadequate, both in terms of size and priorities. we welcome, of course, one of the key points of the agreement, namely the possibility for parliament to be involved in the budget review by the european commission, in which parliament will be fully involved. however, we disagree with the substance of it. the agreement is extremely inadequate in terms of financial resources. the most significant of these is that the latest enlargement has increased the union's gdp by 5% and therefore its revenue, while at the same time increasing its population by 30%. this means that expenditure will increase more than revenue, especially when one considers that most of the new member states have much lower per capita incomes than the rest. the budget in absolute terms, however, is not much different from present levels. the agreement also lacks the necessary priorities to address the economic, social and environmental challenges of an enlarged european union. it does not meet the needs of the cohesion of the current enlargement. it is more a political and economic translation of the objectives embodied in the constitutional treaty with an over-emphasis on security, defence, the strategization of the european union and external action, but with minimal increase in the funds earmarked for cohesion funds and regional development.
in writing. the proposal is constituted by a series of technical and procedural regulations that aim at improving competition. it creates a framework for financing standardisation activities for the implementation of community policies. one more proposal, which, if seen as what it is, introduces a better financing framework and facilitates the adoption of european standards, particularly for very small enterprises and manufacturers. the commission must be subject to censure, not only for what it does but equally for what it does not do. obviously, for the commission, the prosperity of citizens and the harmonisation of social models and systems of social protection - upwards not downwards - is not a priority. this commission continues to ignore the voice of the people calling for harmonisation of social systems before any such internal market is put in place, resulting in social dumping. instead it presents a new lisbon strategy and a directive on liberalisation of services (bolkestein) as the panacea to all our problems. abstention would be the best choice, as a protest vote against the general policy of the commission and especially the fact that european citizens are at the bottom of its list of priorities.
mr president, i would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs, but i regret to say that we are talking about dealing with natural disasters as if they were a phenomenon that can only be solved by taking corrective measures. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it is equally important that the european union shoulders the heavy political responsibilities it has to bear in tolerating the causes of the severe climate changes of recent decades. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a more stringent policy towards european industries and any others which have contributed to them, inside or outside the community's borders, so that they not only pay for the damage they have caused but - much more importantly - take measures to limit and prevent their future action, as well as bear the cost of these measures themselves. the european union should also immediately exert its influence against the united states, which is totally ignoring and violating the kyoto protocol and is continuing its destructive action, which affects both european citizens and citizens of the rest of the world. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the geographical scope needs to be revised to ensure that support is extended to countries other than those directly neighbouring the union. the fund should apply to the various states concerned, including states which are neither member states nor candidate states, as soon as they are affected by an incident which originates or is caused by an event in the community or the candidate states. in this way other neighbouring countries will be able to benefit from european solidarity, either through the fund or through other mechanisms of international cooperation. our solidarity should not be confined to our borders. the fund regulation does not seem to take account of cumulative disasters or prolonged events in which the disaster is gradual, such as drought. the cumulative disasters can be addressed even if they did not occur when the fund was not in existence, as long as their consequences are visible. i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the work done by the european parliament in this area. this does not mean that the regulation as it stands is satisfactory, nor that the policy of dealing with natural disasters should be limited to this. mr president, we expect much more not only from ourselves as the european left but also from the european citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission continues to follow the situation in sri lanka very closely and welcomes the interest shown by the european parliament in finding a peaceful solution to the conflict for all the people of sri lanka. the commission shares your concerns about the worrying situation in the country. it is clear that the situation in sri lanka is now at a critical juncture. however, the solution can only be a negotiated settlement of the conflict. following the first round of talks in geneva in february, the commission was rather optimistic about the readiness of the government of sri lanka and the ltte to enter into discussions on the implementation of the ceasefire agreement as a prelude to possible talks on an overall peace settlement. the commission is very disappointed that the second round of peace talks has now been put back indefinitely and that there are no prospects for new talks at the moment. the commission is very concerned at the recent deterioration in the situation, in particular the suicide attack directed against the army chief, lieutenant general fonseka, and the recent rebel attack in northern sri lanka against a troop carrier and accompanying vessel, which killed 17 soldiers. both actions led to retaliatory air strikes on rebel positions, causing casualties and deaths. we are clearly witnessing a very serious escalation. the navy attack was an open violation of the ceasefire agreement by the ltte and is made more serious by the known presence of sri lankan monitoring mission monitors. the european union has repeatedly condemned violent acts that have caused death and suffering among all the communities. the european union has called on both parties to do all in their power to show restraint and to prevent further violence. these new developments are important for the eu in its role as a co-chair of the tokyo donor conference, and we should carefully calibrate our response. an extraordinary co-chairs’ meeting in oslo at the end of april took stock of the situation. a new meeting of the co-chairs is scheduled to take place in tokyo on 30 may. the indications are that neither side seems keen to continue the peace negotiations and go to the planned second round of peace talks in geneva. however, neither side wants to pull out completely and be accused of triggering all-out war. we thus continue to monitor the situation very closely and will explore any opportunity that could help stabilise the situation in sri lanka and lead to a peaceful, negotiated resolution of the conflict.
author. – mr president, the world health organisation exists to safeguard the health of everyone in the world, without exceptions and without gaps. if, as in the case of taiwan, gaps are imposed for political motives, that can only assist the spread of disease and cause many preventable deaths and considerable suffering to thousands of innocent civilians. it is my view that, with all due respect to the government of the people’s republic of china and without violating any relevant united nations resolutions, the 23 million taiwanese people should, for the sake of world health, be allowed to be represented by their own observers in the who. this would be fully in keeping with the current practice, which allows entities that do not constitute states under international law – such as the holy see, palestine and the international red cross – to have observer status. such representation will not in any way constitute political recognition of taiwan as an independent state, but would be done solely to facilitate international public health and in particular to prevent the spread of highly dangerous communicable diseases, such as sars, avian flu and hiv. so, colleagues, let us put the world’s health before regional political conflicts, and let us call upon the who to show the necessary courage and the people’s republic of china to show the necessary goodwill and allow the observer status participation of taiwan to go ahead.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. if a debate is held in the absence of citizens, workers and their representatives, then we need not ask why any treaty would be undemocratic. the european union must also accept that neoliberal dogmatism does not serve the people. that a foreign policy linked to nato, rather than to un principles, is not in accordance with the law. i would also like to point out that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i would like to ask the council to take them up. finally, we must get rid of the obsession that by 2009 we must have a euro-constitution, as the austrian foreign minister has said. no campaign can wrap up a piece of content that stays the same!
mr president, cyprus possesses a small fleet of military defence helicopters, amongst them two french gazelle helicopters. a year ago, the fuel indicator of one of these two helicopters was sent to a company called vibro-meter in the uk for repair. this was speedily carried out, but since then, the british government has prevented the re-export of the repaired part back to cyprus, stating that the uk has a defence equipment embargo on cyprus. cyprus, along with britain, takes part in the common defence and security actions of the eu, including participation in eu peace missions, eu battle group formations and the european defence agency. how is it possible or even logical for one member state – britain – to have an arms embargo on another member state – cyprus? this surely must be in gross violation of the principles on which our union was founded. i request that you make representations to the british government so that, in the interests of the unity of our european union, this embargo is lifted immediately.
mr president, today we are discussing whether or not to close the first chapter with turkey. i wonder how the european union's crisis with ankara can be avoided. the latter is clearly intent on continuing its rigid policy, that is to say, it is taking an unacceptable stance in its foreign policy, since on the one hand it is talking to the european union and on the other hand it is shooting down fighter planes of a member state, with the result that we are mourning the dead. the european union is also closing chapters of legislation with the union and is not recognising the republic of cyprus as a member state, with the result that its ports and airports are closed to the latter. finally, there is the most important chapter of all: human rights. what does turkey have to show for it? hardly anything! murder attacks on courthouses, bombings with dead every week and oppression of minorities. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict, and it must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict. it is not possible to grant it immunity just because it is a strategic partner, for example in energy matters. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
mr president, every summer forest fires bring devastation to the environment and tragedy to our citizens. this is especially so in the southern member states where high temperatures, strong winds and inaccessible terrain make fire-fighting extremely difficult. prevention is, undoubtedly, of the utmost importance. in cyprus, hundreds of forest fires occur every summer. many are caused when overhead cables come into contact along power lines which cross forests. last week i witnessed the outbreak of such a fire in my home region. this could easily be prevented simply by having overhead cables rubber coated, and yet such a simple and relatively inexpensive measure is not universally applied in many forest areas of southern europe. mr president, i should like to ask you bring this matter to the attention of the commission, and request that before the summer recess a statement be made in relation to the implementation of forest fire prevention measures in the member states.
mr president, i add my congratulations to mrs klaß on her excellent report. on the subject of the protection of groundwater, there has undoubtedly been a profound difference of understanding and the consequent will to act between parliament, on the one hand, and the commission and the council, on the other. it has been obvious for all to see that both the commission’s proposal and the council’s common position fall short of the remit issued in article 17 of the groundwater framework directive of 2000. this is both sad and disturbing and causes, not unexpectedly, many questions to be asked in relation to the reasons behind this apparent lack of determination demonstrated by the aforementioned institutions. why do the commission and the council not wish to have in place such groundwater protection requirements, which will safeguard the maintenance of groundwater in the most natural state possible? why do they not try to achieve through this legislation a level of groundwater quality which is of good drinking water standard? why is there no clear distinction made between such fundamentally important aspects as prevention and restoration? furthermore, why are so many significant matters, such as the assessment of the chemical studies of groundwater and the definition of the criteria for the reversal of rising concentration of pollutants, left to the discretion of the member state, knowing full well that the action of some of these states will be wholly insufficient to combat the alarming rise of groundwater chemical pollution? only the commission and the council know the answers to these and many other related questions. an educated guess, however, would be that the influence of some member states’ governments has been exceptionally powerful and overwhelming, because these states just do not have the will to improve the quality of their groundwater. an attempt is made in this report to transform the common position into a worthwhile piece of legislation, including areas such as the incorporation of the emissions-related approach, ensuring the clarity of the concepts employed, and dissolving the confusion caused by the hazy relationship between the various objectives in connection with the nitrates directive, the water framework directive and the groundwater daughter directive. let us hope that, at the end of the day, legislation will be produced which will be both effective and ensure that the principle of comprehensive preventive groundwater protection is implemented.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are about to vote on concerns the planning of the preparedness and response of the member states to an influenza pandemic in the european union, a subject whose timeliness and importance is one with which the majority of us agree. i believe that this is the main reason why no amendments were tabled in the plenary. however, i would first of all like to thank all the rapporteurs from all the political groups for their valuable comments and help and all the colleagues for the amendments they tabled during the debate on my report in the committee on the environment. i have nevertheless tried to produce this report in close cooperation with the european commission, the european centre for disease prevention and control, the european office of the world health organisation and various other national health services, including that of my own country, cyprus. and in this effort, i've also received input from ngos, from pandemic experts, and even from the vaccine industry. i would like to thank them in particular for their help. i will try to be as brief and concise as possible. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national centres for the prevention of aids, the establishment of a european network of centres for the prevention of aids, the establishment of a european network of centres for the prevention of aids, the establishment of a european network of centres for the prevention of aids, the establishment of a european network of centres for the prevention of aids, the establishment of a european network of centres for the prevention of aids, the establishment of a european network of centres for the prevention of aids, the establishment of a european network of centres for the prevention of aids, the establishment of a european network of centres for the prevention of aids, the establishment of a european network of centres for the prevention of aids, the establishment of a european network of centres for the prevention of aids, the establishment of a european network of centres for the prevention of aids, and the establishment of a european network of centres for the prevention of aids. the fact that there is a strong need to strengthen and intensify coordination between the member states and the commission cannot be overlooked, which is why such coordination plays such an important role in the report. the commission and the european centre for disease prevention and control are already doing a very important job by testing existing national pandemic prevention plans and by conducting exercises. however, these exercises should also take place in peripheral areas, while emphasising crossborder cooperation. as regards the anti-viral vaccines, the planning for their acquisition and the way they are used does not seem to be satisfactory enough. in line with the recommendations of the world health organisation and the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products, further action should be taken to strengthen this programming. research and development should then be promoted so that these vaccines can be produced as soon as possible and, when they are, their equal and fair distribution ensured. information, transparency and public awareness are essential and will facilitate the work of the member states and the commission in preventing the outbreak of a possible pandemic. the european union must also be able to take action to help the countries of the region, and to help the countries of the mediterranean, which are in need of assistance, to help the countries of the mediterranean. the commission has already succeeded in doing a great deal in this direction and i hope it will continue to do so. sufficient funds should also be made available to maximise public awareness, to provide european citizens with more information, to promote research and development with the ultimate aim of creating the anti-virus vaccine, to enable the commission to create a community stockpile of anti-virus vaccines and, of course, to provide financial and technical assistance to third countries in need. equally important as the above points are the protection of small and medium-sized poultry holdings which have been significantly affected by avian influenza, as well as the proper application of the provisions of community law concerning safety at work and in particular of high-risk groups of workers who are in close and continuous contact with birds. finally, i should like to point out that i supported most of the amendments tabled by my colleagues after the debate on my report in the committee on the environment. in particular, i should like to stress that the amendment on the prevention of public panic, the fight against any trade which could arise if there are genuinely serious risks and the fair distribution of all products to be used to combat the epidemic, the amendment on the continuous upgrading of member states' preparedness plans and the amendments on the acquisition of adequate protective equipment and the commission's readiness to approve crisis mechanisms such as quarantine and disinfection measures at airports are amendments which complete the report. i would like to thank the committee's secretariat again for their valuable help in this report and all my colleagues. thank you again.
mr president, i am afraid i will bring heresy to this debate. as a medical scientist, i am convinced that the issue of an impending avian flu pandemic is a myth. although the high-pathogenicity strain h5n1 was first reported about ten years ago, and although precautionary measures in the most affected areas of the world have been almost non-existent, we only had about 100 fatalities worldwide, i.e. ten deaths per year! even the number of people dying from a simple cold is much larger that that! the argument that a mutational change would make the avian flu virus a much greater threat is seriously flawed. mutations in human viruses occur all the time and we humans can do very little to stop them from occurring. but in any event, why do we not worry about the possibility of so many other theoretically possible mutational viral changes? indeed, why do we not panic about the mutation causing the flu virus acquiring a cancer-causing capability? the scientific evidence is that the risk to humans of avian flu is almost zero. the paranoia of an avian flu pandemic has drawn vital resources from other health areas and has largely benefited the pharmaceutical industry and the media. as a sign of protest against this state of affairs and although i have the greatest respect for the rapporteur, i am reluctant to vote in favour of this report in substance; this is only a paper exercise.
the rapporteur. i would like to make two comments on what i have heard, mr president, after thanking all the members for their comments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. they seem to forget the basic principle that prevention of disease is better than cure. i would like to repeat what i said to the committee on the environment when we met here, namely that the member states must bear in mind that if a pandemic breaks out, their entire budget will not reach them. so prevention is better than cure. the second point i wish to make is that mr machakis, who has the absolute right to vote against the report, has no right to mislead the european parliament by saying that a possible pandemic is a myth, when all the scientific bodies and all the specialised scientists around the world are sounding the alarm and talking about millions of dead. the examples of the spanish flu and smallpox where we had millions of deaths are not far away. so what i would like to say to mr machakis is that he has the right not to vote on the report, but he does not have the right to mislead the european parliament.
mr president, i should first of all like to warmly congratulate the austrian presidency on the work it has done and on bringing the european constitution back into the spotlight this semester. i would like to congratulate very warmly the president of the commission, mr barroso, on his historic speech to the european parliament today. mr barroso has re-positioned the european vision today. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to assess the impact of the single market on the european economy. the commission is not prepared to accept this. ladies and gentlemen, globalisation has created many challenges, many problems and many pressures in the european union: economic pressures, political pressures, demographic pressures and all kinds of challenges. to meet these challenges of globalisation, it has no choice but to 'constitutionalise' the union. we cannot operate europe as it does today and expect it to be able to deal with these problems. no member state can tackle the problems of globalisation on its own. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe must increase its credibility. i know. and he has to face the problems as best he can so that this confrontation becomes the foundation to support the constitution and the citizens. this is our job. all the organs. and let the various member states stop blaming the european union for all the bad things, and when they are about to reap some good things, let them say that they are a national success! finally, speaking of credibility, i must say that it is not in europe's interest to negotiate with a turkey which does not recognise one of the twenty-five member states, a turkey which occupies european territory. it is not in favour of europe's credibility when there is this undertoning towards this country, whereas with romania and bulgaria we have done everything to be the strictest judges.
i'm the editor. mr president, on behalf of the group of the european united left/nordic green left, i would like to express our disappointment and dissatisfaction at the lack of progress in developing and monitoring the strategy for sustainable development. we agree that the sustainable development strategy must include three central and interrelated objectives, which have not only environmental but also social and economic aspects. nevertheless, the council and the commission seem to be once again placing more emphasis on promoting the objectives of the lisbon strategy than on its environmental and social aspects in terms of sustainable development. unfortunately, the lisbon strategy is mainly, if not exclusively, about economic competitiveness and the creation of temporary jobs, with environmental objectives playing a secondary or even negligible role. on the contrary, the sustainable development strategy should promote environmental and social objectives rather than economic sustainability. i would like to stress that, given that a large proportion of the european population suffers from serious economic and social problems such as poverty, unemployment and social exclusion, and that the most deprived social strata often suffer the worst social and environmental conditions, including poor housing and health, the commission's framework for action to review the sustainable development strategy is too cautious and weak. the objectives set by the commission are too general and therefore difficult to assess. the commission, for example, is launching the european year against poverty and social exclusion, an initiative which we welcome, but without formulating more concrete initiatives and effective implementing measures to make it possible to make real progress.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, whilst congratulating mr costa on his excellent report, i wish to bring to the attention of this house four areas of concern in relation to civil aviation security which, in my view, are not adequately dealt with by either the existing or the proposed legislation. the first relates to the non-inclusion in the proposal under consideration of improvements in the measures to prevent unauthorised access to the flight crew compartment. such measures are currently covered only by icao provisions. these provisions are, unfortunately, outdated and need revision based on experience. such experience is provided, for example, by the tragic crash of the helios airline jet in greece last summer in which 121 people died. on that occasion, the two pilots lost consciousness as a result of ensuing hypoxia and a steward, who was a qualified pilot himself, could not enter the cockpit in time to prevent a crash because of the currently-applied security locking system of the cockpit door. the second area of concern relates to the attempt to broaden the definition of a ‘potentially disruptive passenger’ to include people whose behaviour is potentially a source of dangerous disruption. this is welcomed, but unfortunately the most common type of disruptive passenger – the drunk passenger – is not dealt with here. furthermore, there is no attempt to prevent such situations: alcohol continues to be served in plentiful quantities and, on many flights, free of charge to passengers. the most logical thing to do would be to ban alcohol use on flights. the third area of concern has to do with the security screening for potential weapons. passengers are forbidden to carry objects which, only with the greatest stretch of the imagination, could possibly be considered to be of any offensive capability, such as nail clippers; yet glass bottles of alcoholic beverages, for example, are allowed on board. i need not point out that a broken bottle held by the bottle neck is a most dangerous weapon in the hands of an assailant. the wise approach would be not to allow glass bottles in the passenger cabin. the fourth area of concern is the controversial issue of flight marshals. the general approach of the legislators is that no weapon-carrying security officers should be present on aircraft. the main argument put forward in favour of this position is the alleged catastrophic risk of a weapon firing accidentally during flight. this is not accurate. certain states such as israel have for many years now had armed personnel on their national airline’s flights, and i am not aware of any such accidents occurring to date. in fact, modern weapons such as double action pistols with built-in advanced safety mechanisms cannot fire accidentally, but even if they did this is very unlikely to cause a crash. indeed, there have been numerous occasions where firearms were used on board aircraft, and yet this in itself did not severely affect flight capability. on the other hand, the presence of air marshals could be crucial in neutralising a hijack situation and certainly could act as a strong deterrent in preventing one from arising in the first place.
mr president, it is now becoming clear that measures to combat terrorism are to some extent inevitable. it is clear, however, that the measures can become excessive and restrict the civil liberties of those they are supposed to protect. the most important thing is that there are effective mechanisms that act as safety barriers to prevent violations of civil liberties. the letter of the law is important and must be checked, but its implementation must be checked as well. it is, however, worrying that more and more powers are being transferred to the centre of the union, and in particular to the commission. the subsidiarity is being weakened by small but steady steps. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. all of the above has been said before about measures of a similar nature and objectives. we have reservations, but we also recognize the union's right to protect its citizens. so our differences lie only in methodology.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current crisis in east timor raises a number of complex questions. has the international community failed to prevent the outbreak of violence? what lessons can we draw from this for the donor community? according to the latest reports, the security situation has calmed down, but looting and clashes continue, resulting in the displacement of more than 100,000 people to camps. these displaced persons are now receiving humanitarian assistance from humanitarian organisations, including from commission partners who have provided assistance in the country in the past. however, much more needs to be done, especially in the areas of safety, protection, food, water and sanitation, as well as health care and shelter. the political situation in the country is very complicated. the disbandment of one third of the armed forces has resulted in deep social and economic tensions throughout the country. mass unemployment, persistent poverty are caused primarily by political factors. moreover, ethnic differences may play a role, but they are not in themselves the cause of the underlying political and economic problems. what can the european commission do? in the short term, the commission is committed to helping the country overcome the current crisis by providing humanitarian aid to displaced citizens. the commission has already mandated some of its humanitarian partners to adapt ongoing projects to refocus aid on meeting the most urgent needs of people in the camps. in addition, the commission is preparing a financing decision to cover other humanitarian needs of the population. at the same time, we should try to find a way to help the political process. the european union has been committed to helping the government and people of east timor from the very beginning. the solution will not be easy, as the current crisis is manifested both at the level of governments and at the level of socially disadvantaged members of society. the un and the international community continue to play a role in this regard. but east timor should not only be a success of the un peacekeeping effort, now and in the future, but above all it should be a success of development and democracy. the next parliamentary elections in 2007 could be an opportunity to promote democracy and will also be a test for the east timorese government and people to decide which path to take. the commission shall continue to consult closely with member states, partner countries and un agencies on all these issues. and the commission is of course continuing its political dialogue with the east timorese authorities, both bilaterally and within the framework of the cotonou agreement. every viable democratic country needs strong institutions that follow transparent rules. and the foundation of democracy is the rules governing human rights. i am afraid that some east timorese institutions have not lived up to our expectations in this regard. this country gained its independence precisely to give its citizens rights that were denied to them in the past. the international ngo human rights watch has published a detailed report on this subject, and so i will focus on only selected areas. there's been some progress. i would like to give the example of the ombudsman's office. i am also pleased to mention the forthcoming bilateral truth and friendship commission with indonesia, and i hope that it will have a broad mandate. however, progress is needed in the functioning of the police and the justice system in general, as well as in the area of freedom of expression and association. in this regard, our support will continue. our latest project is funding the commission for acceptance, truth and reconciliation. this project has succeeded in collecting important data on past human rights violations. the commission's report was published in 2005. we are now considering another contribution to the peace of the country. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the people of east timor should know that the european union is committed to the peaceful development of the country.
author. – mr president, syria has in recent years been set on a course of democratic reform, especially after the accession to power of president bashar al-assad. unfortunately, progress has been disappointingly slow, mainly because the emergency laws, introduced under exceptional circumstances 43 years ago, are still in operation today. regrettably, in the past few months in particular, numerous violations of human rights against politicians, lawyers, writers and other civilians have been reported and confirmed by independent agencies such as amnesty international. some, but not all, of those incidents are listed in the motion for a resolution. we hope and expect that the syrian government will take immediate and decisive steps to remedy the human rights situation. ratification, without further delay, of the convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment would certainly be a step in the right direction. as, of course, would the immediate release from custody and cessation of harassment of human rights activitists living and working in syria. syria and the eu have many political, economic and cultural ties and it is our firm wish and honest desire that such ties be strengthened in the future. to this end, an association agreement between the eu and syria is currently waiting to be signed. we are optimistically confident that the syrian authorities will note the concerns expressed in this motion for a resolution with due seriousness and that they will view the necessity of enhancing respect for human rights in their country with the importance it so rightly deserves. furthermore, that they will accordingly abide by the international principles of respect for human rights diligently and responsibly.
mr president, last week the turkish press reported that the turkish ministry of the interior was conducting an investigation into the role of the mayor of diyarbakir who, according to the turkish government's allegations, supported the protesters in the incidents that took place in that city a short while ago. at the same time, turkish authorities banned 41 kurdish passengers from leaving istanbul because their iraqi passports contained both arabic and kurdish characters. so is it possible to negotiate with a country in which there are no basic democratic institutions and which, moreover, snubs us as an institution because the turkish foreign minister, mr gür, refused to appear before the foreign affairs committee next week? let us make our decisions so that we do not have any surprises in a few years. we may not be here, but we must be careful of the legacy we leave to the young.
mr president, i wish to join other colleagues in congratulating mrs lucas on her excellent work. mrs lucas’s report meets with my agreement to a great extent and hence i will confine myself to making some general comments on the subject matter under discussion. i think we all agree that the dangerous trend of increasing aviation emissions has to be checked. in my view, the simple, common sense options for a solution offering a reduction in aviation emissions are the following. first, a general reduction in air travel through encouragement of the use of other, less polluting means of transport, such as rail transport. for this to be achieved, there has to be genuinely fair competition, which historically there has not been. it almost escapes logical explanation why today aviation is still not subject to fuel tax or vat, and this anachronism surely needs to be corrected. the corresponding air-fare price increases that will result will not only make people use, when possible, alternative, more environmentally-friendly means of transport, but may cause them to limit their travelling altogether, which is not a bad thing. the second option is the improvement of the fuel efficiency of aviation engines. for this to be achieved, novel engine technology research and development needs to be promoted even more intensively. state assistance to that end should be encouraged most strongly. the third option is the introduction and promotion of aviation fuels which have less impact on the environment. in this respect, more research should be encouraged into novel fuels such as biofuels. the fourth option would be the phasing-out of old inefficient aircraft, some of which cause two or three times as much damage to the environment as more modern aircraft. to this end, the airline industry must be given clear incentives for regularly upgrading their aircraft. fifthly, there is the option of operating a more efficient service. there has already been mention of aircraft holding circles and running half-empty aircraft. surely there is scope for improvement in efficiency in that area.
mr president, the european union's structural policy, as it is currently implemented, has limited effects, since it is essentially the expression of the social policy of the economic model of free competition which derives from the lisbon and gothenburg strategies. with the 2004 enlargement, the need to change the existing criteria for allocating funds became urgent, in order to take account of the increasing socioeconomic disparities in the 25 member states. the differences widen to the point of excluding regions which will continue to have the same structural problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the most important issue not addressed by the new proposals is the change in the philosophy of the structural funds from their current subsidiary character to a means of genuinely promoting socioeconomic development and to become a real tool of social policy and of balancing inequalities between countries and regions.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on the hard work he has put into successfully preparing an excellent report that deals with such a difficult and controversial subject. the amendments submitted in this report undoubtedly significantly improve the commission’s latest proposal and certainly constitute an important improvement to the original directive on the supervision and control of shipments of radioactive waste. one of the most noteworthy contributions made by the rapporteur in substantially improving the commission’s position is his stance in firmly establishing the right of every country to prohibit foreign nuclear spent fuel from being finally stored in repositories in or on its soil. this right is fundamental and paramount. in my view, only a very small number of somewhat equivocal issues remain as yet unresolved. i shall mention only two such problem areas, which in fact are interrelated. the exact definition of nuclear waste and nuclear spent fuel is still not entirely clear, so that some nuclear waste may, depending on its intended use, sometimes be regarded as nuclear spent fuel and vice versa. this may lead to confusion. in any event, and oddly enough, both of these hazardous materials are still legally speaking considered to be goods so far as eu legislation is concerned. as a consequence of this, a member state, after receiving only a simple notification, is on occasion obliged to have extremely dangerous consignments travelling through its territory by land, sea or air and subjecting its citizens to the potential perils of a catastrophic nuclear contamination accident. this happens without that state having the right to prevent such shipments from taking place in the first place. i know that coming up with a solution to this problem and implementing it is not at all easy, but somehow we must find a way whereby member states can have the last word, after being fully informed, in clearly reasoned decisions to accept or not the transportation of nuclear material – or any other hazardous material for that matter –through their territory.
mr president, the commissioner very rightly mentioned the agreement between president abbas and the hamas government on the basis of the proposal by the prisoners, which has been overshadowed by recent developments. each time there is a positive development towards peace, some extremist elements make sure they undermine it by an action such as the ambush in which two soldiers died and one was abducted. we condemn any terrorist acts and we demand the release of the israeli soldier. however, it must also be said that the israeli side always falls into this trap. with their excessive and disproportionate use of force they are destroying all the positive developments toward the peace that they themselves are seeking. they say that their aim is to spare innocent civilians. however, by destroying power stations and preventing normal irrigation – thereby leaving several million people without electricity and water – they are punishing not only innocent civilians but also the european taxpayer whose money has contributed to the building of the infrastructure and who, most probably and quite rightly, will be asked to repair it again. therefore, our call is for both sides to respect the political, democratic process and to abandon violence as a means of imposing their political objectives on each other. the fight against terror should not be an excuse for israel to overturn a democratic political decision taken by the palestinian people.
president of the council. i can only share the deep concern among members of this house about the further escalation of the situation in the middle east. as the minister for development, i too find it particularly bad that the humanitarian situation is deteriorating further, as i said in my opening speech, because the situation was not very good before the last phase of this crisis. this conflict is a major challenge for the european union and the council is strongly committed to supporting its resolution in every way possible. at the same time, we must bear in mind that the key to resolving the crisis lies in the hands of the parties. we can and must support the search for a solution as effectively as possible, but the key is that the parties have the will and the desire to find a solution. the council has delivered its latest opinion on 30 june, so it is not late for the debate. i understand that the position is very balanced, contrary to what has been suggested in some of the speeches we have heard here. the council stressed that the crisis needed to be triggered by the adoption of appropriate measures by both parties. we consider it essential that the israeli soldier who was abducted be released, but we also consider it equally essential that israel should abandon this military operation and that both sides should act in accordance with the provisions of international law. the key is that the parties can return to the negotiating table and find a solution to the crisis.
member of the commission. mr president, as i said at the beginning, i really sense and share your deep concern at the escalation of these events in the gaza strip. it is a vicious circle. i also understand the reactions in israel to the kidnapping of corporal shalit. he must be released unharmed. it is true that the syrian part of hamas has a great responsibility here. the qassam rocket attacks from northern gaza into israel must stop. however, the israeli military incursion into the gaza strip and the destruction of the civilian infrastructure there punishes palestinians collectively and puts civilian lives at risk. that raises questions about respect for international law. is it really in israel’s long-term interest? does it not threaten to reinforce this vicious circle of poverty and extremism? electricity and water supplies must now be restored quickly and with israeli assistance. the arrest of elected law-makers threatens the institutions of the palestinian authority that are needed for the creation of an independent, democratic and viable palestinian state. the european union has expressed particular concerns about the detention of these elected members of the palestinian government and legislature and those detained must be accorded full legal rights. all sides must exercise restraint. last year i spoke of the need to hope for prospects in the peace process in the wake of israel’s disengagement from gaza and the g8 plan to revive the palestinian economy. how different the situation looks today. yet, i think it is possible to step back. therefore we will remain committed to a negotiated two-state solution and we will not recognise any change to the pre-1967 borders other than those agreed by both sides. we welcome president abbas’s efforts to create the widest possible palestinian consensus in support of the objectives of the roadmap and we want to have continued support. we are ready to work with any palestinian government that renounces violence, recognises israel and respects previous agreements as set out by the quartet. we have to consider mr brok’s suggestion of going there as a quartet and seeing what we can do. we have reiterated our commitment to a negotiated, comprehensive, just and lasting settlement in the middle east. the common goal of the g8 remains the creation of a viable, democratic and sovereign israel and palestine living in peace and security. we want to achieve that and therefore we want to continue our efforts, even at the most difficult times. (applause)
how much more must the palestinian people suffer, how many more children must be lost before the international community finally wakes up and demands that israel stop the heinous crimes it commits every day? the cause of the tragedy is the israeli occupation. let us not allow the truth to be distorted by identifying the responsible party for the unacceptable developments in the capture of an israeli soldier. this would be tantamount to accepting the occupation, the logic of mass punishment and the statement that israeli lives are more important than palestinian lives. we condemn the arrest of ministers of the legally and democratically elected palestinian government and of our fellow members of parliament. we demand their immediate and unconditional release. israel must stop the undeclared war, stop the obstruction of humanitarian aid and restore the infrastructure it has destroyed. we also demand the release of the soldier, which will remove any pretext for the continuation of the raids. the quartet must immediately put into effect the temporary aid mechanism for the palestinians. the international community, the eu and the quartet must insist on a return to negotiations, demanding that the israeli government respect the road map and that both sides respect all agreements signed to promote and safeguard peace.
mr president, this is not a point of order, i just wanted to thank our colleagues who signed written declaration no 21. my thanks also go to my colleague mr braghetto for his solidarity. we tabled the declaration together. the european parliament has today once again proved its sensitivity to cultural matters, because the cultural and religious heritage of cyprus is not strictly speaking a cypriot matter – it is a european matter. the european union embraces all the cultures of all the member states of the union.
mr president, time and again this chamber has condemned terrorists and therefore it is needless to extend the rhetoric on this horrible phenomenon. i shall just say that we cannot forget the tragedy of september 11; we cannot forget the london bloodshed; we cannot forget the madrid massacre. we cannot, of course, ignore the fact that the usa is the central target of terrorism and we cannot underestimate the fact that the main task of combating terrorism falls on its shoulders. however, at the same time, we cannot forget that human rights are a cornerstone of modern european political philosophy. therefore, despite our understanding of the usa’s role in combating terrorism, we cannot shut our eyes to certain activities that are contrary to european principles, values and rules. it is a fact that the cia abused the understanding of certain countries. we condemn the practices of the cia. we strongly condemn the cia for the acts referred to by previous speakers and in mr fava’s report: extraordinary renditions, suspicious flights. we do the americans no service if we leave the right of criticism of the cia for acts committed in violation of human rights to those who are passionately anti-american. i agree with mr coelho, chairman of the temporary committee, that in general mr fava’s report is good. however, it could be made more balanced if amendments stressing the other side of the coin were accepted. i appeal therefore to the rapporteur and to the other political groups to accept certain basic amendments proposed by mr gawronski, on behalf of the ppe-de group, so that this house votes unanimously on two main points: firstly on the condemnation of terrorists and secondly on the protection of human rights.
mr president, immigration is not a scourge and multiculturalism is a reality which we must not tolerate but welcome, and not with words but with deeds. by not doing enough to overcome the barriers faced by fellow citizens who are immigrants, and by putting obstacles in the way of immigrants seeking to enter the union legally, we are putting a damper on progress itself. it is important, of course, that we are clear about what we mean when we talk about integration. what should we aim for? in addition, the commission has also proposed that the member states should take measures to ensure that the conditions for the free movement of persons are met, in particular by ensuring that the conditions for the free movement of persons are met, and by ensuring that the conditions for the free movement of persons are met. the objective of integration presupposes a two-way relationship of supply and dialogue, exchange and interaction, understanding and mutual respect between the citizens of europe as a whole. without ensuring equal opportunities for access to employment, public education and public health care, in an environment that does not distinguish between immigrants and non-immigrants, it is impossible for all citizens of europe, regardless of their origin, to reap the benefits of a socially and economically developed area. at the same time, it is our duty to ensure that immigrants, as citizens of the union, can participate in all levels and activities of the state, including the democratic right of citizens to vote and to stand for election. in conclusion, what i would like to remind everyone is that integration is not only an objective for immigrants but also a duty for every european citizen.
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the committee on development, and in particular mrs carlotti, on their work. i can assure you that the commission is looking very carefully at this very topical issue of the links between immigration and development, and i can also assure you that the commission will take your suggestions very seriously. it is a very detailed report covering a very wide range of subjects. let me therefore, for lack of time, concentrate on two sets of questions which are really very important. the first set of questions concerns the coherence of community action. i would like to recall that for the first time the commission has made a very clear link between migration and development. it wanted to send a strong signal of the added value that can be obtained by improving the interactions between migration and development. this interaction, as your report rightly notes, has two dimensions. on the one hand, development policy can play an important role in migration flows. the european union strongly reiterated last year its commitment to an ambitious development policy, aimed at promoting economic and social development and good governance. this policy can thus help to address the root causes of migration. this is obviously a long-term task and results cannot be expected in a short time. i have noted that your report contains some interesting suggestions in this area, and we will consider some of them carefully. the commission is already implementing the integration of migration issues in country strategy papers, in particular. on the other hand, certain migration-related phenomena can contribute effectively to the development of the countries of origin. this is what the commission demonstrated last year with its communication on immigration and development. this document provides guidelines which can be applied in our relations with the countries of origin concerned, and which can benefit from financial support from the community. i particularly welcome your recommendation on co-development, which is also being considered by the commission. the priority objective must be to promote brain circulation to compensate for the negative effects of flight. one of the most promising avenues in this direction is the "double chair" system, which should enable researchers, teachers and representatives of the medical profession in the south to spend half their time in a south-south institution". i think that is a very interesting recommendation. i think that this particular recommendation in the report, which is about how to involve the diasporas in the development of the countries of origin, is a very important suggestion. the report by mrs carlotti is a real added value in this area. the position of the report is clear: very broad support for the co-development experiment. the commission has little experience in this area and i am quite willing to feed the commission's thinking with experiences and examples of best practice developed by some member states. the report proposes the creation of two funds - recommendation 15 - the first to finance co-development, the second to provide a mechanism to guarantee the sustainability of micro-projects. i understand that you are thinking of setting up these funds under new thematic strategies on migration. i would be in favour of the creation of two such strands on the thematic programme. however, this still needs to be discussed with my colleagues franco frattini and bénita ferrero-waldner. let me also, on behalf of the commission, thank you for the positive reception your report gives to most of the guidelines contained in the commission communication on migration and development, whether they concern the transfer of migrants, the role of diasporas as agents of development in the countries of origin or the facilitation of circular migration and other forms of 'circulation' of brains. i would also like to point out that the commission is considering action in this area only in strict respect of the principle of voluntary involvement of migrants and the private nature of this involvement. in the same vein, it is clear that the money transferred by migrants cannot be seen as a substitute for official development aid, which is still more necessary than ever and to which the european union is firmly committed. finally, i would like to confirm the importance which the commission attaches to policies to remedy the effects of the so-called brain drain. in this connection, i would remind you that last december the commission adopted a communication on the human resources crisis in the health sector in developing countries. it also contains very precise and practical guidelines. the commission has set itself a very ambitious work programme which it intends to implement in close coordination with the member states, some of which have also launched original initiatives. all these initiatives are, or will be, of course, in partnership with the countries of origin. the second set of questions i would like to briefly address with you - and you will not be surprised - is the very special place of africa in this reflection. this is a point which is very clear in your report. issues such as brain drain, high cost of money transfers and weak financial infrastructure are particularly relevant in sub-saharan africa. it is perhaps in this area that the involvement of the diasporas, if certain conditions are met, would be most likely to make a difference. in its conclusions last december, the european council made it clear that improving the links between migration and development in the two complementary dimensions i have just mentioned must be a priority in the partnership we are building with africa on migration, and this at all levels of the discussion. the link between migration and development is therefore at the heart of the agenda for the rabat conference next week, which will bring together representatives of europe, the maghreb and central and west african countries on the subject of migration. the links between migration and development are also one of the key elements of the dialogue which the commission is developing with a number of sub-saharan african countries, on the basis of article 13 of the cotonou agreement. the commission considers these discussions to be an opportunity to open a dialogue on the practical support that the community can provide to its african partners to help them better manage migration flows, and in particular to take better advantage of the links between migration and development. finally, these links are also at the heart of the dialogue we have with the african union. this should lead to a ministerial conference bringing together representatives of the european union and the whole of africa. it is therefore by multiplying the channels of communication that the commission is endeavouring to develop with africa what we consider to be an exemplary partnership in the field of migration. there is no doubt that this is an important contribution that the european union can make to the high-level dialogue on migration and development that the united nations is organising in new york in september. the commission will adopt a communication in a few days' time which will constitute its written contribution to this exercise.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, i would like first of all to thank mrs carlotti. i congratulate her for her report and i thank her for taking up the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, on behalf of which i am speaking today, in particular noting that the link between immigration and development is an integral part of the foreign policy agenda of the european union. it has been so from the time that the barcelona process was instituted, but it has continued in all other issues of our relations with the countries of origin and transit. it is very important to tackle the issue of immigration, to manage migratory flows when we achieve the understanding and the cooperation of the countries of origin and transit. as has been said by the deputy secretary-general of the united nations, remittances around the world to developing countries amount to usd 232 billion per year, which is double the size of foreign aid to developing countries by everybody else. therefore, this is the significance of facilitating remittances, facilitating the issue of circular migration, thus gaining the confidence of the countries we want to cooperate with. we are not aiming at the brain-drain that they are so afraid of; we do not talk only about illegal immigration, but we know how to take best advantage of immigration in view of our ageing population and the need that lies ahead. i would like to conclude by saying that by putting order in the financial institutions, as regards both the sending and receiving side, we can also deal with the issue of terrorist financing that has been thought to come via charity organisations and so on in europe.
author. – mr president, commissioner, for many years now the people of somalia have been suffering the plague of civil war and this house, gravely concerned especially about the violation of human rights, has previously passed a number of resolutions on that country. the long-term lack of an effective government in that country has led to an anarchistic vacuum as far as central power is concerned. as a consequence, islamic courts militias and various radical factions are fighting for control of parts of somalia, at the expense, as is inevitable in such circumstances, of the safety and well-being of innocent civilians. especially worrisome and worthy of condemnation has been the recent fighting in and around mogadishu and in the jowhar region. while expressing support for the initiatives by the un, the african union, the arab league and igad in bringing peace and reconciliation to somalia, this joint motion for a resolution calls upon all parties involved in the cancerous internal war in that nation to strive to pursue the path of dialogue and peace and offer the necessary cooperation to the transitional federal government and parliament as the legitimate central authorities in somalia, governed by the framework of the transitional federal charter. at the same time, it urges the international community and the eu to increase their help, especially through humanitarian aid to somalia. one hopes that eventually this poor developing country will gradually begin to find a decisive way to much-needed peace and prosperity, for the benefit of all its citizens.
author. – mr president, at last the republic of mauritania appears to be gradually and delicately beginning to move towards the eventual restoration of democracy and respect for human rights. so far the transitional authorities in the country are seen to have kept their promises as regards the timetable for elections and the referendum conducted last month, despite the difficult practical problems, showed an overwhelming electoral majority in favour of urgent and vital constitutional changes. the transition towards democracy is fully supported by the newly formed political parties and by civil society and there seems to be, at least in principle, agreement to allow the return of refugees from neighbouring countries to which they had fled, justifiably fearing for their safety. if they are properly managed and corruption is kept at bay, the new petroleum resources being exploited in mauritania offer the possibility of providing financial wealth for the benefit of the general population, especially in fields such as health and education. this joint motion for a resolution aims primarily to offer support to the people of mauritania in their difficult and eagerly awaited transition to democracy, in the hope that this worthy goal will be achieved amicably, peacefully and within the expected time parameters previously agreed with all the parties concerned.
your honor, on august 27th, the 14th formula one grand prix of the season took place in istanbul. at the end of the race, the award was given by the pseudo-state's self-styled "president", mr. talat, in the capacity, according to the turkish organizers, of "president of the turkish republic of northern cyprus". according to the regulations of the world automobile federation, the award can only be made by the head of state, or the prime minister of the country, or the president of the federation. the turkish government is therefore politically involved in this case, since mr talat does not hold any of these three posts. the president of the istanbul chamber of commerce, mr. yaltzidas, who is also organizing the race, told the newspapers that the act was deliberate because the race was an unexpected chance to show mr. talat. i would like to ask you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how long will we have to stand by and watch these extreme measures by the turkish authorities, which, in addition to mocking our intelligence, are an affront to the values of honesty and transparency which the european union is promoting?
mr president, i want to denounce the arrest of three journalists from three different channels in cyprus by the occupying forces who control 40% of the republic of cyprus. i also want to express here the outrage of the media and the journalistic world at the arbitrary and brutal behaviour of the turkish occupation forces and the occupation regime against media workers. we must, as the european parliament, demand, as the united nations and the international and european organizations do, the defence of press freedom and individual rights, and act decisively to put an end to the arbitrariness of the occupying power and the occupying regime and to protect effectively the mission, the work and the rights of journalists. i am also aware that the journalists have been put on trial in sham courts, convicted, and the fines imposed on them have been paid by the turkish cypriot press organisations.
mr president, recently the turkish army occupying the northern part of cyprus has increased its attacks on press freedom. in the last two months, three tv teams of greek cypriot journalists were arrested, kept for several days in atrocious prison conditions and brought before a turkish military court, accused of filming in a supposedly military area. the occupied town of famagusta is arbitrarily regarded by the turkish army as such an area. having been found guilty in summary proceedings, the journalists were heavily fined. in a commendable gesture of solidarity, the fines were paid by turkish cypriot journalists who themselves suffer similar treatment by the turkish army. i call upon you as the president of this house to express to the turkish government your deep concern and strong condemnation of these arrests, which constitute a blatant attempt to severely curtail freedom of expression in an eu member state.
member of the commission. as regards the steps taken by the commission with the aim of facilitating the reunification of the island and thereby ending the isolation of the turkish cypriot community, the following major activities can be reported. first, the commission has started to implement the council regulation that establishes an instrument of financial assistance for encouraging the economic development of the turkish cypriot community. that was adopted during the austrian presidency, on 27 february 2006. our programme team responsible for the implementation of the regulation should be operational as of this month. it will use an eu programme support office in the northern part of nicosia. the first projects envisaged for implementation encompass, inter alia, actions in the field of solid waste, energy, local infrastructure, business support and other very concrete measures. within this framework, the commission is also implementing an institution-building programme through the technical assistance and information exchange instrument (taiex), in order to help prepare the turkish cypriot community for the future application of the acquis communautaire in that part of the island. the proposed direct trade regulation submitted by the commission to the council in july 2004 – over two years ago – is still before the council. the commission supports efforts of the finnish presidency to secure a speedy adoption of this trade regulation in order to fulfil the eu’s commitment of april 2004. we have no intention of withdrawing the proposal and submitting a revised version. we have been and remain ready to accept and facilitate any accompanying measures that would support reunification and economic development and that are acceptable to both communities and all parties, in order to overcome the very unfortunate current stalemate. it is a badly-kept secret that the accompanying measures have largely centred on the question of the port of famagusta. in reply to the question by mr matsis, the return of varosha has been linked in the past to the un-led talks on a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem. therefore it is up to the parties involved to decide whether to keep this issue within the framework of the comprehensive settlement or to discuss it separately or to find a way to include it in both concepts. where there is a will there is a way. we now expect both communities to approach the matter by focusing less on past injustice and more on future solutions. we expect a constructive spirit from all parties. it is high time to end the division and reunify cyprus.
member of the commission. i have been briefed on the results of the vote in the foreign affairs committee on the eurlings report on turkey. i will comment on that report in the context of the debate at the next plenary session. i will do so when i am fully prepared and have studied it line-by-line and paragraph-by-pararaph. it is clear that a possible failure by turkey to meet its obligations as regards the implementation of the additional protocol to the ankara agreement would have consequences for the overall negotiation process. that is almost word-by-word what the council and member states decided in september 2005, in the well-known eu declaration of the time prior to the opening of accession negotiations. our aim is to avoid a possible train crash because it is in no one’s interests for eu-turkey relations to be seriously damaged. the best way of avoiding that is for turkey to meet the obligations it entered into before we opened the accession negotiations.
i should like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that since the opening of the passages from the north to the south in cyprus, the per capita income of the turkish cypriot community has almost tripled due to the contacts with the south despite their purported isolation.
mr president, commissioner, firstly i wish to express my sincere congratulations to the rapporteur for his excellent work. mr bowis has thoroughly and successfully addressed all the important issues concerning a strategy for mental health in the eu and my group fully endorses his report. as regards the amendments tabled, the alde group will support the two pse amendments 11 and 12, but with the following proposed oral amendment to each. in both amendments, the words ‘some of’ should be inserted after the word ‘in’ so that the text reads: ‘in some of the new member states’. this is necessary because what is referred to in the amendments does not apply to all new member states and it would be inappropriate and erroneous not to make this clear. i am sure this small alteration will be agreed by all concerned. on the main substance of the report, i only wish to re-emphasise a couple of points. firstly, the fact that mental ill health is extremely common. it is estimated that approximately 100 million eu citizens will be affected by it during their lifetime. it does not appear to be so common in everyday life, because most people choose to hide it away. the time has now come to bring the issue of mental illness out of the closet of denial and shame and deal with it openly, rationally and effectively. secondly, there is the fact that mental illness is unfortunately subject to stigmatisation in our societies. in my view, this stems from our limited comprehension of the function of one of our most important vital organs, the brain. the brain, like other vital organs such as the heart and the lungs, is susceptible to disease, which results in malfunction. a malfunctioning heart will give rise to cardiac disease. in the same way a malfunctioning brain will give rise to mental disease. the main difference in my view is that we may not yet be able to identify the exact anatomical and/or histological and/or biochemical anomaly giving rise to the particular brain malfunction. i am sure we will be able to do this in the future, as our scientific knowledge of neurology and neuroscience progresses. so mental illness should be nothing to be ashamed of. the mentally-ill patient is no different to a cardiac patient or any other patient. in conclusion, i very much wish and hope that this report will mark the end of the dark ages approach to mental disorders and the beginning of a new era of understanding in dealing with both the treatment and prevention of mental ill health.
mr president, i should just like to move a short oral amendment to amendments 11 and 12. in each amendment, before the words ‘the new member states’, the words ‘some of’ should be inserted, so that the text reads: ‘in some of the new member states’. the aim is to be factually correct, since what is being referred to in the two amendments does not concern all of the member states, just some of them.
mr president, the israeli invasion and the razing of southern lebanon, the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people, many of whom have been hosted by the people of cyprus, the hundreds of victims, all of this proves the failure of the doctrine of the so-called war on terror. they show what they mean by the technical construction of the new middle east which is rejected by the peoples of the region. both of these objectives rely on the power of arms and the violation of international law. the massacre in the region will only end if the policy of violence by the powerful is replaced by just peaceful dialogue with full respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of states, especially in palestine, and especially in gaza, where 70% of the people are hungry and suffering. the european union also has grave responsibilities. we must give political support to president abbas and the effort to form a government of national unity. the palestinian ministers and parliamentarians must be released, the economic blockade of the occupied territories must be lifted immediately and negotiations must resume. the european union has a duty to help the palestinians, and to help the palestinians themselves.
mr president, following the hostilities the european union has been widely called upon to lead and contribute the core of unifil, to implement resolution 1701, to play a primary role in humanitarian aid and reconstruction and to encourage the parties to take part in political dialogue. however, prior to the end of the hostilities, we did not punch the weight of a major international player. we may have reached a unanimous decision, but it was not a uniform one and we were not listened to either by the security council or by the belligerent parties. if we had been listened to and these events had taken place a few weeks earlier, the military results on the ground would have been exactly the same but there would have been less loss of life, less destruction, less displacement and fewer katyushas and cluster bombs, along with everything else qualified as ‘collateral damage’. the lessons are there to be learned: neither military might nor katyushas or qassams can solve problems, and nor can unilateralism; the eu and the un need to talk to all the parties, whether they like or approve of them or not. finally, lebanon needs our full support to consolidate its sovereignty, because that country has suffered a war by proxy for purely extra-lebanese reasons.
in writing. for 34 days the world watched a military operation, a super-armed army that - thanks to the us's welfare and the ultra-modern missiles they sent to the end - leveled by invading southern lebanon, killed hundreds of civilians, displaced a third of the population and took the country's economy back twenty years. israel is guilty of many war crimes that have been committed - this is confirmed by the reports of amnesty international and human rights watch. the capture of the israeli soldiers by hezbollah was a pretext for the implementation of a preconceived plan. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we support the embargo on the shipment of military equipment to israel, in order to stop the operation of this military machine and to send the message that the international community disagrees with the genocide being perpetrated against the palestinian people and its neighbours. we demand the establishment of a nuclear-free zone in our region, including israel. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the palestinian people are not left behind, and that the palestinian people are not left behind.
in writing. for 34 days the world watched a military operation, a super-armed army that - thanks to the us's welfare and the ultra-modern missiles they sent to the end - leveled by invading southern lebanon, killed hundreds of civilians, displaced a third of the population and took the country's economy back twenty years. israel is guilty of many war crimes that have been committed - this is confirmed by the reports of amnesty international and human rights watch. the capture of the israeli soldiers by hezbollah was a pretext for the implementation of a preconceived plan. the european union is also prepared to take action to ensure that the european union's citizens are not subject to the same treatment as the citizens of the other member states. we support the embargo on the shipment of military equipment to israel, in order to stop the operation of this military machine and to send the message that the international community disagrees with the genocide being perpetrated against the palestinian people and its neighbours. we demand the establishment of a nuclear-free zone in our region, including israel. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the palestinian people are not left behind, and that the palestinian people are not left behind.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, tragically the incidents of bloodshed in sri lanka continue to occur and the responsibility lies with both government and tamil forces. evidence from the slmm shows that: government forces have killed 17 aid workers; the ltte have bombed a bus, killing 64 civilians; and the sri lankan air force has bombed a campsite in the north, killing 51 young people. whilst in the short term there is an urgent need for an independent commission to investigate the recent disappearances, abductions and extra-judicial executions, in the long term we must repeat the call made by this house in the last resolution for a wide-ranging human rights agreement between the parties involved in the civil war and its facilitation by an effective independent international monitoring mission. the lessons learned from the weaknesses of the slmm demonstrate that for human rights to be a fundamental building block of a just and enduring resolution of the conflict, that body must have real enforcement mechanisms and unhindered access to both government- and ltte-controlled areas. let us hope that a political solution that would be acceptable to sri lanka’s minority communities will soon be found and that lasting peace and prosperity will replace violence and poverty.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, north korea has rapidly come to be symbol of an anachronistic, backward-looking communist state. the sharp deterioration in standards of living that has ensued and the unbearable repression of its people by the increasingly brutal totalitarian regime have in recent years caused tens of thousands of north koreans to flee their home country in search of a kinder destiny. thailand, in particular, has become a major transit destination for north korean refugees. sadly, we have recently seen unacceptable treatment of north korean asylum seekers by the thai authorities, with arrests, heavy fines, imprisonment and repatriation. such conduct runs contrary to the otherwise much-envied thai tradition of hospitality and violates thailand’s obligations under the 1951 convention relating to the status of refugees. we call upon the government of thailand to show proper respect for the rights of north korean asylum seekers and to collaborate fully with the united nations high commissioner for refugees. in addition, we call upon the council and commission to monitor closely the situation of north korean refugees.
author. – mr president, a grave and long-standing humanitarian, political and economic crisis sadly continues to torment this former british colony, with no sign or hope of an early improvement forthcoming. the inefficient and corrupt governing regime led by robert mugabe continues to oppress the people, and harassment of political opponents, trade union activists, farmers, human rights organisations, journalists and the judiciary is still widespread. we call upon the government of zimbabwe to start demonstrating the necessary respect of international conventions and human rights and to guarantee the independence of the judiciary. furthermore, we are of the opinion that an important step towards saving the country from an even worse future is for mr mugabe finally to relinquish power as soon as possible. such an action, facilitated by the opening of positive transitional negotiations between zanu-pf, mdc parties and other opposition movements will, we feel, bring about the much-needed revival of the society, politics and economy of zimbabwe and bring peace and prosperity to its people in their traumatic transition from british colonisation to independence and freedom.
mr president, if a member makes a vicious attack on a colleague’s country, then i think a representative of that country should be given the opportunity to answer back. i am referring to the attack by a british colleague on the cyprus government. i would like to remind him that britain maintains its colonisation of my country, cyprus, to this day.
mr president, commissioner, although the factors of air pollution are difficult to detect, they do not cease to endanger our health. i would simply point out that the health costs associated with these diseases exceed 10% of the gross national product. as far as exceptions are concerned, the best solution would be to have none at all. i would like to stress here our support for jonas sjöstedt's amendment no 73, which, if it is rejected, mrs hassi's amendment no 54 provides for the shortest period of time in which exceptions can be granted. it should be stressed that the reduction of the pm 2.5 concentration limit is certainly in the interests of european citizens. recent studies, however, have shown that a reduction of 25 μg/m3 would only reduce premature deaths by 4,500, whereas a reduction of 15 or 10 μg/m3, as suggested by the world health organization, would reduce premature deaths by 13 and 22 thousand, respectively. it should be noted that one of the strongest points of the air quality legislation is that the limit value of 50 μg/m3 for a maximum concentration limit of 10 should not be exceeded more than 35 times. the amendments which support the increase in the maximum number of days allowed for exceeding the limits from 35 to 55 lead to a significant weakening of the directive and are far from ensuring the protection of public health - and on this point i entirely agree with the commissioner. dear jonas, thank you very much. i personally do not thank you very much because you have taught me a lot as a young mep who was here. good luck in your next life.
mr president, in order to proceed smoothly on its accession path, turkey must do what the previous acceding countries have done and comply with its contractual obligations, such as opening its ports and airports to cypriot ships and aircraft and lifting its veto on cyprus's participation in international organisations and multilateral treaties. its continued refusal to do so is a flagrant breach of the association agreement, the customs union and the additional protocol, which are its contractual obligations towards the european union. the turkish authorities have therefore wrongly linked them to the cyprus problem. however, mr president, the proposal of the cypriot government for the joint use of the port of famagusta under the auspices of the united nations with the simultaneous supervision of the european commission, combined with the return of the fenced area of famagusta to its legal residents, can help to overcome the present impasse. we, as akel, mr president, are working for the solution of the cyprus problem, for the respect of the human rights of all the cypriots - turkish and greek cypriots - and we are not seeking to put obstacles in the way of turkey's accession. at the same time, however, we cannot accept turkey's violation of its contractual obligations towards the european union at the expense of cyprus, accept the non-respect of the human rights of all the inhabitants of turkey and the non-recognition of the armenian genocide. in conclusion, mr president, we fail to understand the logic of the amendments which seek to relieve turkey of its obligations. such reasoning is unnecessary and will lead to unwanted complications.
mr president, our european union exists because it is firmly based on strict adherence to our european principles and values. those principles and values are not negotiable and that must be clearly understood by all those who belong to the eu and by those wishing to join. turkey is welcome to join our union and i very much hope that it does, but it must accept and abide by our european principles and values. it is turkey that must achieve the required accession changes, not us, and we must be honest in making our position clear to turkey. we should not try to trick turkey into joining the eu. turkey must do so only if it really wants to and in full awareness of exactly what is demanded of it. the eurlings report makes that clear, firmly and honestly. the eurlings report is the result of much discussion and debate and many compromise amendments have been voted in by the committee on foreign affairs, finally achieving a much-desired balance. please support it and resist attempts to introduce any amendments on key issues at this stage, which is likely to cause more harm than good. let me remind some of my colleagues that we will bring about reforms in turkey by telling the turkish people the truth and not hiding the truth from them.
mr president, commissioner rehn speaking to the committee on foreign affairs said, inter alia, that the momentum on reforms has been lost, the penal code punishing the expression of opinion remains in place, there are reports of interference by the military in the judiciary, there are restrictions on the property rights of non-muslim religious foundations and the human rights record in south-eastern turkey has deteriorated. that is the essence of the matter and of the eurlings report. some groups wish to table amendments to redress the situation. how? by introducing a dozen amendments against cyprus, in the view that this is the way to redress the balance. are we helping turkey if we encourage it not to extend the protocol by introducing conditional linkages? are we helping turkey if we delete the paragraph asking for the withdrawal of turkish troops? can you imagine what would happen if turkey voluntarily withdrew some troops from cyprus and how much it would be in turkey’s favour? or what would happen if we were to delete the paragraph asking turkey not to veto the participation of cyprus in international organisations and so forth? furthermore, we are restricting the two leaders in cyprus, who have already agreed on working methods in the search of a solution, by indicating to them the basis of talks which neither of them has raised as a precondition. does that help turkey? i do not think so. finally, as regards our moral duty towards the armenian community in europe, we must demand recognition of the armenian genocide.
vice-president of the commission. i am grateful to members for their comments and their support for the pericles programme, which tries to fight counterfeiting. counterfeiting is politically a very serious crime, which somehow humiliates the authorities, but the fight against it is eternal. the fight against the counterfeiting of euro coins in the european union has been relatively successful. the cooperation between the european central bank, europol and olaf has also been relatively efficient. euro notes are of quite a high quality. but that does not diminish the importance of fighting counterfeiting. in my previous occupations i have had occasion to deal with the issue. the main problem is always the streets and dark bars where the counterfeit notes are put into circulation. that explains why eur 500 notes are not found amongst counterfeit notes. one specific question was about turkey and montenegro. montenegro is a specific issue. it has the euro as an official currency. it is not so much a question of counterfeiting as of the monetary policy of the european union. i know my colleagues are thinking about how to deal with that. turkey has promised – i have visited turkey and discussed this with the turkish authorities – to gradually phase out the coins that are quite similar to euro coins. to change the production process takes some time, but at least they have made a promise to do so.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all i should like to thank the rapporteur for the quality of his report and for the excellent cooperation. currently, little, if any, account is taken of convictions handed down in other member states. that is not acceptable in an area of freedom, security and justice. that is why the objective of the eu is twofold: first, information on criminal convictions should circulate efficiently between the member states, and secondly, it should be possible to use that information outside the territory of the sentencing member state. the main objective of the proposal is to define the conditions under which a conviction handed down in another member state can be taken into account in new criminal proceedings concerning different facts. as the effects attached to the existence of a previous conviction can vary widely from one member state to another, the proposal does not aim at harmonising those effects. the core principle – which i fully agree with – is, rather, a principle of assimilation where the objective is to ensure that those effects are equivalent to those of a previous national conviction. in line with that principle, the proposal is not limited to the trial stage but covers the various stages of criminal proceedings where national law can attach effects to a previous conviction. it encompasses the pre-trial stage where the existence of a previous conviction can, for example, influence decisions on pre-trial detention, as well as the post-trial stage where they can notably have an impact on the execution of the sentence. the commission fully supports this report and looks forward to cooperating closely with the rapporteur.
the rapporteur. mr president, the proposal for the inclusion of sentences in the european union is part of the institutional arrangements being promoted by the commission in the context of the implementation of the tampere european council conclusions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposal is a further step towards broadening judicial cooperation and developing trust between member states in the field of justice. it is another measure to promote the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions - civil and criminal - which is considered the cornerstone of judicial cooperation in the union. the introduction of the institution of the reckoning of sentences is necessary to combat crime more effectively, especially after the existing relevant european conventions of 1959 and 1970 proved ineffective. the proposal as it stands is limited to regulating substantive law issues. the procedural questions have been left to be settled in the context of the other proposal pending in the committee on civil liberties and justice, which is being worked out by my friend and colleague mr díaz de mera as rapporteur. that proposal is the other side of the same coin. the proposal now before us excludes administrative sentences from the definition of a sentence because in most member states they are not recorded in the criminal record and because there is no uniformity as to what constitutes an administrative sentence. the importance and gravity of a conviction by a court of another member state shall be promoted in relation to that of the member state where the new criminal proceedings are taking place. thus, if a conviction for an offence does not exist in the member state adjudicating the new case, the conviction is not taken into account. the proposed proposal avoids the confusion and uncertainty that would have existed had the provisions of the original proposal on the selective inclusion of convictions and exceptions been adopted, but it does retain the obligation of a member state not to take into account convictions in another member state where the principle of non bis in idem, limitation and amnesty are violated. we are of the opinion that the wording of the proposal under vote serves both the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions and the policy of gradual approximation of laws. it should be stressed again that this measure, like other similar measures, is based on the principles of mutual recognition and trust. however, it is important that the council proceeds as soon as possible to the adoption of the radical proposal on minimum criteria in criminal proceedings, as voted on many months ago by the european parliament, which will strengthen the above principles. why is the council delaying on this important matter? finally, i welcome the declaration made by the finnish presidency the other day on the intensification of legislation and the monitoring of the implementation of decisions in criminal matters. i hope that this statement will be translated into action.
mr president, allow me emphasise the issue of police and judicial cooperation and to say that widening and deepening such cooperation between the member states of the european union is really crucial. we cannot talk about effectively combating crime and terrorism on a pan-european scale with the current cooperation levels and mechanisms in the police and judicial sector. it is about time that we proved that our declarations and assurances for enhancing and developing the cooperation are not meaningless. that is the major challenge facing the european council, which will be meeting soon with the aim of reviewing the programme. if the european council has the will to remedy the decision-making incompetence of the europe, in this respect there is only one decision to take: to shift these subjects from the third pillar to the first pillar. it has the legal power to do that, under article 42 of the european treaty and the passerelle. let that be used at last. last week the finnish presidency admitted, inter alia, that practical experience has shown that problems with current decision-making at eu level are leading to a decreasing number of police cooperation initiatives. that was indeed a nice honest admission. however, the steady degrading of police cooperation is due to the lack of european framework decisions which would develop and establish such cooperation. those shortcomings have to be remedied. the low credibility of the european union as far as the security of the citizens is concerned reduces its prestige. we have been waiting a long time for approval of the framework decision for minimum procedural rights in criminal cases and for revision of the european arrest warrant. what has caused the delay? why is the council inactive and incapable of taking decisions? we have to leave rhetoric behind and finally embark on action.
mr president, firstly i wish to thank mrs miguélez ramos for all the work she has done in preparing this own-initiative report. the corresponding commission report is clear in reiterating that finning is prohibited within the community, and in its conclusion that the percentage equivalence ratio of shark fin to body weight does not need to be altered. the rapporteur disagrees with this percentage ratio figure, and she is of the opinion that it should be increased from the level of 5% to 6.5%. this is the main issue of disagreement with the commission report, and with some of us. mrs miguélez ramos argues that some scientific evidence favours her 6.5% ratio position, but let me say respectfully that other scientific evidence supplied by at least equally reputable sources supports the view that the 5% figure is in fact more than adequate. the latter scientific evidence further supports the view that if the ratio is indeed increased, this will result in the enhancement of the very practice we want to stop, i.e. finning. such a practice, coupled with the general failure of implementation of the relevant community regulation, will, in my view, lead with mathematical accuracy and in the not-too-distant future, to the endangerment of the very existence of certain shark species. in this respect, please note that an increase from 5% to 6.5% may seem small at first glance, but in reality it is not. it in fact represents an increase of 30%. in other words, potentially 30% of the shark catches could end up in finning. much as we wish to help increase the profits of our fishermen, it is our primary concern and duty to prevent the extinction of any shark species. i therefore urge you to support mr davies’ amendment tabled on behalf of the alde group and aimed at maintaining the ratio at 5%, as proposed by the commission and as supported by the commissioner in his speech here tonight.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wish to offer my sincere congratulations to the rapporteur for his excellent report on the commission’s proposal to amend the current regulation relating to third-country farming and importation into the eu of organic products. it is clear for everyone to see that there is a worldwide growing demand for organic produce, and the eu member states are no exception. the importation of organic products from third countries can thus be a very lucrative enterprise, but the current practices involving such importation are, sadly, not sufficient to necessarily guarantee the quality of a product. we therefore very much welcome this much-awaited commission proposal. at the same time, we recognise that the proposal has a number of weak points and gaps, which the rapporteur has detected and seeks to correct through a number of amendments, all of which we find both rational and fair. the committee on agriculture and rural development has complemented his effort by also putting forward a series of valuable amendments. we have no strong objections to any of the amendments, but we wish to draw attention to the fact that the main problem relating to safeguarding the strict adherence to the regulations shortly to be made into eu legislation is that of implementation. this in fact is the weak link in bringing together many eu legislatures with application effectiveness. and we fear that, despite the undoubted improvements to be effected by the numerous amendments, this legislation will still be crippled by inefficiencies in actually and properly implementing it. hoping that time proves me wrong, i once again congratulate the rapporteur on a job well done.
mr president, this debate is about a nuclear test by the deplorable north korean regime. however, mr solana has stated on more than one occasion that this is only a ‘possible’ nuclear test. in order to be clear about what we are discussing, would mr solana reassure us that he will be able to tell us in the very near future whether in fact it has taken place?
mr president, a report recently issued by the united nations human rights office for iraq states that the bodies at the baghdad mortuary often bear signs of horrific torture, including acid burns, excision of eyes and teeth and wounds made by drills and nails. human rights organisations have repeatedly reported that acts of torture are taking place in the prisons run by the us and british forces and the iraqi ministry of justice and defence and in prisons controlled by various military factions. the un human rights office’s position is that the level of torture in iraq today is worse than it was during saddam hussein’s rule of terror. the eu, and parliament in particular, have an obligation to respond appropriately to this un report. i call upon you, as well as the president of the commission and the finnish presidency, to make a clear statement on the issue as soon as possible.
mr president, last week the trial of three people responsible for the turkish translation of a book by the american writer noam chomsky into turkish began in turkey. under article 301 of the turkish penal code, the publisher, translator and editor of the publication are charged with inciting public expression and hostility against turkish identity and defamation of democracy and the turkish parliament. i would remind you that in the september plenary we spoke again about article 301 and the fact that turkey will finally have to conform to some of the values espoused by the european union if it wants to achieve the european profile it so desires. a month later, we see that things remain the same and that turkish intransigence still remains undiminished. i ask you, mr president, whether we shall continue to watch this theatre of the absurd or whether we shall strengthen democratic discourse by condemning this new trial which violates freedom of speech and human rights?
mr president, mr behiç aşçi is a turkish lawyer who has been on hunger strike for 202 days and is now very close to death. although not a prisoner himself, he is protesting against the inhuman action of turkish authorities in subjecting mainly political prisoners to isolation in so-called f-type prisons. one hundred and twenty-two hunger strikers in such prisons have died so far, and yet the turkish government stubbornly refuses even to discuss the matter. isolation, sometimes for years, is one of the worst forms of psychological torture and turkish civil society, including the lawyers’ and doctors’ associations, have called for its abolition. i call upon you, mr president, in the name of respect for human rights and in order to save mr aşçi’s life, to contact the turkish prime minister urgently and stress to him that isolation in f-type prisons is incompatible with turkey’s european aspirations and must cease forthwith.
the second generation of schengen is the upgraded version of the electronic file for citizens of the european union and third countries, under the pretext of ensuring public order within the union. when we talk about second-generation schengen, we must be clear. we are not talking about a mere technical instrument to help the union function better, but about an institution of strategic importance, through which the law enforcement agencies will be given a politically enhanced role in the fight against terrorism and the management of migration, without any weight being placed on data protection and without guaranteeing that data will not be transferred to third countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to provide the necessary information to the member states, and that the european union is able to provide the necessary information to the member states. so are we all potential terrorists, or does the new order of things also impose a new legal order, where our freedoms must first be passed through the intelligence agency's sieve and then be granted to us? and that should worry us.
member of the commission. madam president, i should like to thank parliament for having organised this debate on breast cancer. the very detail of the questions shows the wide range of issues involved. i will not try to address every question separately; that would be an impossible task, given my limited speaking time. however, i would be very happy to provide detailed information at a later stage. i shall therefore focus on three key areas, but first i should like to acknowledge the magnitude of the problem, already mentioned by many speakers. every year, 270 000 women are diagnosed with breast cancer in the european union. that affects their lives and the lives of their families and it has a very significant medical, social and economic cost. the first issue i should like to touch upon – and it has already been addressed – is how far we have come since the european parliament’s resolution of 5 june 2003. it is true that the resolution set out some ambitious targets for the member states to reach by 2008, notably a 25% reduction in mortality and a reduction in differences between breast cancer survival rates in the member states to 5%. i have to admit that it is too early to know exactly how much progress has been made. member states have committed themselves to report to the commission on the situation by the end of this year, three years after the adoption of the council recommendations. the commission will therefore produce an implementation report in 2007. i can assure you that the lack of information from some member states will not delay production of the report. instead, the report will indicate the member states that have not provided the information. there are already signs that the resolution and other actions have had positive effects and started to make a difference. we expect progress on aspects such as the exchange of best practice models to facilitate application in different parts of the eu and the guidelines for screening diagnosis, delivering some very significant reductions in breast cancer mortality. in addition to providing the results on mortality, we hope to have the data to be able to set out a clear picture of the timeframes involved and developments as regards inequalities. the second general area i should like to touch upon is research. breast cancer will feature strongly under the seventh framework programme. this will cover both the detection of the disease and, crucially, the causes – in other words, how it can be prevented. as regards detection, research is focusing notably on improving breast cancer screening and alternatives to conventional mammography, in order to improve early detection. examples already supported under the sixth framework programme include mammography with molecular imaging or the application of positron emission tomography – pet – specifically designed for breast cancer examination. early detection is, of course, crucial in ensuring successful treatment, but that is still treating the disease rather than the causes. i am therefore very pleased that work on the causes of cancer is a priority in the research framework programme. that work will cover the three key areas of genetics, environment and lifestyle. thirdly, the issue of campaigns: these can play a very important role in public health issues, in raising awareness of key issues by private individuals, public authorities and decision-makers, as well as, of course, health professionals. not only does it enable individuals to help and protect themselves, it also puts pressure on the decision-makers to give priority to this problem, which they sometimes fail to do. the european parliament’s 2003 resolution has been an effective part of an ongoing campaign to increase awareness. awareness-raising among women on the importance of screening has been a key part of european action against cancer. such campaigns can be supported under our public health programme. in conclusion, we all agree that breast cancer has to be tackled and best practice examples show that significant results can be achieved. however, we have to understand that it is a continuous process. we must never become complacent, even if we are encouraged by the initial success of some of those efforts and initiatives. a coherent and collaborative approach is needed, covering in particular the three aspects i highlighted earlier. of course, we have to admit that most of these actions are principally for the member states, but the european union can and will provide support – as in the case of research – where possible. as an indication, i can refer to future support for breast cancer screening guidelines, which will continue under the current and future health programmes, the european council network and the european union network for information on cancer in europe. a new project that has now been shortlisted answers some of the questions relating to the extension of the guidelines. the european union guidelines will be updated to cover not only the setting of standards for breast cancer nurses but also the specification for specialist breast units. they will set the standards, principles and benchmarks to which member states will have to adjust their breast cancer screening, training and treatment. these initiatives will cover the need for information and consultation in the new member states as well and will help to integrate the relevant experts within existing networks. we must never forget that each year more than a quarter of a million women depend on such action. they and their families depend on the priority we and the member states will give to such an important and serious problem. we must not let them down. (applause)
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, each of us in this room is aware of the great challenge that breast cancer poses to a disabled woman. each of us can appreciate how much this is a test for them and their families. this disease can turn your life upside down. the demanding and lengthy treatment takes its toll on the patients, often preventing them from working or leading a normal life. my colleague commissioner kyprianou spoke a moment ago about the health and prevention issues in relation to breast cancer. i'd like to focus my brief presentation on the reintegration of breast cancer patients into working life. breast cancer is a life-threatening disease. life changes direction, and patients are often ill-prepared for such a change. although in fact, in many cases, they cope better than their relatives, friends, colleagues, or employers. employers often have no idea how to treat breast cancer patients. there are no universal solutions. each specific situation must be dealt with individually. there is also little information or guidance on how to deal with breast cancer patients, whether from a legal, occupational, medical or psychological perspective. the company should improve the mechanisms for helping breast cancer patients. experience shows, for example, that it is better for women with breast cancer to go to work, provided, of course, that their physical or mental condition allows it, that is to say, that they react to the introduction of special working hours, holiday arrangements, for example in combination with work from home, in order to make this painful period of life easier for the patients. this should also help them to reintegrate into the workplace more easily and quickly. employers and colleagues can be crucial in supporting you during treatment. psychological support should also be available at all times, and this implies the need to develop awareness, information and education campaigns targeting employers and the workplace in general. as i have said, it is important to create the conditions for the rapid and successful integration of breast cancer patients into the labour market. the specialised working conditions they may need during treatment may be needed for some time after treatment to facilitate their reintegration. women with breast cancer should not be discriminated against in the workplace. the european directive of november 2000 establishes a general framework for equal treatment in employment and prohibits discrimination on the grounds of, inter alia, disability. the question remains whether long-term illness also falls within the scope of disability. for example, in the united kingdom, after a long debate, this issue was resolved by an amendment to the disability discrimination act, which now provides that people with cancer must be protected against discrimination. the european court of justice will have to decide whether the same interpretation applies to the directive on non-discrimination. in addition, european union legislation, in particular directive 89/391/eec on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health of workers, requires employers to adapt the nature of work to the condition of the employee, which implicitly includes chronically and long-term ill patients. i welcome the proposal to create a charter for the protection of chronically and long-term ill patients in the workplace. however, i believe that such a charter should be drawn up by the social partners in cooperation, in particular, with the relevant authorities at national level. in addition to legislative instruments, the commission promotes cooperation between member states through the open method of cooperation in the field of social protection. investing in health is one of the objectives of the new structural funds for the period 2007-2013, especially in convergence regions. the aim is to increase the number of healthy years at work and to enable as many people as possible to participate actively in society. this objective applies both to health infrastructure and to the training of health workers, a topic that has been mentioned here. measures in this area could include health promotion, disease prevention, knowledge exchange and training of highly qualified personnel. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european social model is based on solidarity with the weaker citizens, to whom we have a moral responsibility. breast cancer patients are vulnerable and fragile, both physically and mentally, and they go to war against the disease. they need support, they need proper health care, they need to be protected against discrimination, they need to be reintegrated into working life under the best possible conditions. ladies and gentlemen, i think you can count on us on this one. (applause) thank you very much.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i have heard all the speakers and i would like to thank in turn the authors of the resolution and those who are working so hard to fight breast cancer. i will stand by inequalities, commissioner, and treatment. it is well known that the mortality rate in the ten new member states is high, but also that the early detection programmes are very, i would say, infantile. and that does not exclude my own country, which, as you may know, has a pilot programme rather than a national programme. it is a pity, commissioner, that it is left to chance in which country a person will get breast cancer and in which country and in which hospital he will be treated. and this is because the guidelines for developing, first, quality mammography screening, and, second, specialized treatment facilities - breast clinics - with specialized nurses are not easily understood. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation of the income of women in the community. and since we are discussing breast cancer today through this fine initiative, i would like to stress that other cancers, commissioner, are not poor relatives. there are other cancers where, with exactly the same guidelines, we can reduce both incidence and mortality. what is needed is a comprehensive cancer strategy coordinated by all 25 member states, and we must stop 'calling' for subsidiarity, which means that the structural funds do not provide funds to develop these programmes. i would ask you to look at these issues.
mr president, commissioner, mr schlyter rightly deserves our congratulations for his excellent report, which i fully support. arguably the most important aspect of this legislative proposal is that the story of pfos is unfortunately one of shame for eu and international consumer protection, and one that should never be allowed to be repeated. although pfos were well known to be persistent bioaccumulative toxic compounds, they were extensively used in numerous consumer products and in various industrial applications for decades. this has resulted in the irreversible contamination of the environment and of both animals and humans. let us all hope that the directive under consideration here will be fully implemented as soon as possible, but let us at the same time remember that appropriate legislation will also be needed to deal with the hundreds of other perfluorinated compounds which are also very toxic and which today are more or less freely allowed to poison us and will continue to do so in the foreseeable future.
mr president, i shall be dealing with two subjects which were discussed during the informal lahti summit. the first concerns innovation policy, which, in your view, mr vanhanen, will be the source of european growth. but i do not think we are talking about the same innovation policy, since you are talking about dismantling the barriers to crossborder economic activity and removing the factors that distort competition. but should we focus on a more social model of development? the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. is it time to think of a viable strategy to restore credibility? the second point, mr president, concerns cyprus. i have to ask you, mr president: mr president, i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to express our deepest sympathy with the turkish government and to express our deepest sympathy with the turkish government and the turkish cypriot authorities.
mr president, commissioner, climate change is no longer speculation, it is a fact. as is the prospect of a countdown to unprecedented catastrophe for further generations if the present unacceptable situation continues. the time has come for brave and bold decisions that will bring about drastic measures which can secure significant results. the eu has in the past taken a leading role in this field, and the un nairobi conference presents our opportunity and our duty to press for concrete and effective action. we no longer have the luxury of waiting for those who still need convincing, or continuing to tolerate those who simply do not care. in my view at least, the following two points must be included in our nairobi strategy: firstly, strict emission reduction targets must be set and severe penalties must be envisaged and implemented for those who fail to meet them; secondly, the international community must isolate those countries that have not signed the relevant conventions and are not willing to cooperate in the joint fight against climate change. here i am referring particularly, of course, to the united states, which alone is responsible for one third of global carbon dioxide emissions. the stance of the usa is represented by the extraordinarily selfish and inconceivably arrogant way the us state department’s spokesman, adam ereli, commented on the ratification of the kyoto protocol by russia in 2004. he said, ‘we do not believe that the kyoto protocol is something that is realistic for the united states and we have no intention of signing or ratifying it’. it is about time we stood up to the us and told it straight that if it does not sign and ratify the kyoto protocol forthwith, our transatlantic relations will suffer a very heavy blow indeed.
author. – mr president, china’s communist occupation of tibet is a long-standing scourge on democracy and an open wound on the principles of justice and freedom. time and again, we have strongly condemned the thoroughly indefensible and brutal way the chinese regime has been treating a small peace-loving nation, isolated at the roof of the world. in the latest incident, china’s occupation forces opened fire on a group of unarmed, defenceless civilians who were attempting in desperation to flee their country through the glacial pass at nangpa, situated at a height of almost 19 000 feet. the group included many women and children. a 17-year old nun was killed; a 20-year old was seriously injured; some individuals are missing and 29 people, including 14 children, were arrested. some succeeded in escaping to neighbouring nepal. luckily and thankfully, the incident was witnessed by a number of foreign mountaineers, whose independent and trustworthy accounts, including a video, utterly contradicted the ridiculous lies about what happened put forward in an official statement by the chinese authorities. we in europe have a lot to say when it comes to condemning actions of totalitarian and oppressive regimes, but in practice the severity of our words is not matched by our deeds. apart from being regrettable, this is also highly hypocritical, in my view. the colonial-style occupation of tibet by china, as, indeed, any colonial occupation of one country by another, has to end forthwith. to demonstrate that we mean what we say, we must take tangible measures against china. yes, we have an arms embargo against that country, but it has little effect. what would really be effective is if we had a trade import ban on china; that would really cause headaches to the communist leaders in beijing and would lead to some sensible responses to our demands for freedom for tibet. (applause)
author. – mr president, commissioner, it is very sad and shameful to contemplate the fact that, in the vast majority of cases, those who commit despicable and atrocious crimes against humanity, including genocide, remain unpunished. in fact, most of these callous murderers of largely innocent, defenceless civilians never face justice. it is even more shameful that in reality many such vicious sub-human criminals not only escape the arm of the law, but enjoy a high standard of living and important political status. numerous examples of this disgraceful state of affairs can be found all over the world, throughout history and across most political systems and ideologies, which only goes to prove that, in reality, true administration of justice is a summer night’s dream and a fallacy. we all know it applies to our world, but most of us are too afraid to admit it publicly. the situation in guatemala’s recent history fully bears out what i have just said. in the period from 1960 to 1996, more than 200 000 people were murdered in state-sponsored violence orchestrated by a notorious army general turned dictator, efraín rios montt, and assisted by a string of infamous top officials and high-ranking military officers. none of these characters was ever punished. rios montt remains in politics today as the leader of the guatemalan republican front, one of the nation’s most powerful political parties. he served as president of the national congress as recently as two years ago. we should of course note that rios montt was trained by the united states, and his rise to power was accomplished through cia involvement and with the full political backing and financial assistance of successive us governments. honestly, how pathetic can us foreign policy be? sometimes one wonders. has the us state department not had any straight-thinking, sensible people with average iq working in it over the last few decades? i urge you to support this resolution, which aims at supporting the present attempts by the guatemalan authorities to bring to justice rios montt, as well as a number of other despicable criminals.
author. – mr president, uzbekistan is an authoritarian republic, previously part of the soviet union, which, while struggling for economic and political stability, has been fiercely violating the human rights of its citizens. the memory of the andijan massacre in may 2005 is very much alive in our minds today, especially since the numerous requests by the un, the eu and others for an independent investigation appear to have fallen on deaf ears. furthermore, despite some recent attempts to improve the human rights situation in the country, the situation relating to civil liberties is still profoundly anachronistic. according to credible ngo human rights watchdogs, such as amnesty international, the most disturbing human rights violations concern torture, arbitrary arrests and restriction of religious freedom and freedom of speech, with members of religious organisations, journalists, human rights activities and political activists, including members of the banned opposition parties, being the main targets. despite existing sanctions, the rate and extent of democratic reforms in the country is exceedingly low and distressingly limited. therefore, in this motion for a resolution we call on the council not only to renew existing sanctions for a further year but also to expand the sanctions to include eu visa bans and the freezing of assets held in the eu by a number of top officials in the uzbekistani government. we do this with regret, but we feel that we have been left with no other option than to be tough in order to be kind. we very much hope and wish that the uzbekistani government will understand our resolve when it comes to issues of human rights and will quickly rectify the large democratic deficits still existing in its country.
mr president, i object to that oral amendment because it takes away the sting in our resolution. we have tangible evidence that the sanctions are slowly working, so we need to expand them further and not weaken them further, as mrs jeggle's amendment seeks to achieve.
mr president, a study carried out by the highly renowned johns hopkins hospital medical school in the usa in collaboration with the baghdad medical school, published last month in the internationally prestigious medical journal the lancet, showed that approximately 655 000 civilians have died as a result of the violent hostilities in iraq between march 2003 and july 2006. of these, many thousands have been children whose deaths were deemed by vicious criminal terrorists in iraq and seemingly heartless politicians in washington and london to be acceptable collateral damage. mr bush’s and mr blair’s invasion and occupation of iraq has turned into a bloodbath of innocent people, worse than during satanic saddam’s rule of terror. we can no longer look on passively. i call upon you to recommend to the conference of presidents an urgent debate on the carnage involving civilians in iraq, in the hope that we might help convert the madness of war into the logic of peace.
mr president, the former iraqi leader, saddam hussein, was sentenced to death by hanging for crimes against humanity, having been found guilty of the deaths of 148 shiites - following an assassination attempt against him - in 1982. i believe that, however heinous this crime may be, the death penalty is not the answer and is not in line with the european acquis. i am sorry to note, however, that the british foreign secretary, margaret beckett, welcomed this decision and said that those accused of crimes against iraqis must face justice. i ask you, then, how can a member state of the european union, which has abolished the death penalty in all the countries of the european union because it offends human dignity and only increases violence, and does not help to prevent crime, support such a thing? how does the death penalty secure the justice mrs. beckett invokes?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate mrs lienemann on the excellent work she has done on the report and to stress that she has succeeded very successfully in including in her report the views of all colleagues as well as of the ngos, and has thus considerably improved the original commission document. the marine environment, a vital and precious source of life, is threatened every day. marine pollution, climate change, shipping and coastal construction continue to threaten the marine environment and have a negative impact on human health. the directive, which aims to fill in the gaps in environmental policy, is an important step towards improving the health and recovery of the seas. it is important to support amendments which require member states to achieve good environmental status, which recognise the threats to the marine environment and which seek the shortest possible timeframe for the implementation of the directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. in addition, member states' actions should be based on the precautionary principle, an ecosystem-based approach, while taking into account relevant assessments carried out under existing european legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not affected by the pollution of the seas and the oceans, and that the community's environmental policy is not affected by the pollution of the seas and oceans.
mr president, i wish to congratulate mrs lienemann and mr kušķis on their excellent reports which, despite the view of some scottish colleagues, have been wisely strengthened by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. european marine waters, as indeed international waters, have often become the dustbin for waste of varying quantities and levels of toxicity. this practice has been carried out for many years by individuals, companies and governments, who have shown little knowledge of or regard for the enormous diversity and importance of marine ecosystems. in many instances that has resulted in unprecedented environmental damage. in other cases, the survival of certain species is now balanced on a knife edge. it is high time for the eu to intervene decisively in order to protect our marine environment. therefore, we should all fully support these two welcome reports in the hope that the implementation of the necessary strategies and directives will be forthcoming unhindered, as well as extended to third countries, and that further, complementary measures will be introduced in the near future. after all, the protection of our marine environment is an essential element in safeguarding our own survival on this planet.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to thank mrs sornosa martínez for her excellent report and her cooperation with all the shadow rapporteurs. i also want to note the very helpful assistance of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, as well as that of the commission and the council in formulating a small number of necessary final compromise amendments. mercury, as you will all know by now, is a highly toxic substance that we all want and need to get rid of from our lives and the lives of generations to come, as soon as and as effectively as possible. the legislative proposal will begin to put into effect the mercury strategy that we endorsed in march this year and will ban or substantially reduce the presence of mercury in various non-electrical and non-electronic devices. instruments containing mercury such as the household thermometer will be replaced by more accurate and versatile, quicker and safer measuring devices that do not contain mercury. as with most pieces of legislation, some differences of opinion were encountered in the examination of this proposal. thankfully, a sensible compromise agreement was reached by most groups, but there are certainly still objections from some meps. the problem has been the insistence, mainly by a few english, dutch and belgian colleagues, that modern antique-looking barometers manufactured by a very small number of smes in england, holland and belgium should still be allowed to contain mercury. this is despite the fact that a two-year transitional derogation period has been allowed after the entry into force of the directive; despite the fact that, at the end of the two-year derogation period, the commission is to review the availability of reliable safer alternatives that are technically and economically feasible for use in such instruments; despite the fact that barometers that are genuine antiques, i.e. more than 50 years old, would be exempt from this directive; and despite the fact that, if the compromise agreement in respect of barometers falls through, the whole legislative proposal effectively falls and has to go back to the drawing board. do not allow yourselves inadvertently to be used by those who might want to kill the legislation as a whole and those who might want to use the issue of barometers to promote their eurosceptic views. please vote in favour of the compromise amendments and help get rid of toxic mercury, for health’s sake.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i too, after thanking and congratulating mrs sornosa martínez on her work, would like to ask you to support the compromise amendments which seek to remove mercury from measuring instruments used by european consumers. the compromise amendments are the minimum and most realistic approach to consumer protection and reflect the agreement between the european parliament and the council. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. such an exception jeopardises the last opportunity to restrict mercury to measuring instruments for which alternatives exist, before the legislation on the reach programme is adopted. this action is of the utmost importance in order to bring legislation on measuring instruments containing mercury into force as soon as possible. i should also like to stress that the adoption of the amendments on barometers - apart from those contained in the package of amendments - does not do anything substantial for the barometer industry, but rather gives it a year or two to improve. it is almost certain that the commission, either through reach or through the comitology, will return to its original position which provided no exception for barometers. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress that the package of compromise amendments follows the line of our previous resolution on mercury, with mr mauro matsakis as rapporteur. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
the commission's programme for employment is based on three points. the first relates to the commission's intention to encourage the establishment of common principles to enhance flexibility and security in employment. the commission notes that this combination has been recognised as necessary. but who did he get id'd by? obviously by employers who approve of the unfettered market framework. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second concerns the issue of immigration. the commission states that because market needs have increased, immigrants should be approached. but that's the message that the exploiters are waiting for to import cheap labor and use it to break into the domestic markets and reduce wages. the immigrants must not be used as disruptors, but as people with equal rights alongside the local worker. finally, as with the directive on the liberalization of services, so with the commission's programme, workers and citizens do not suffer from a problem of reduced awareness - as some people claim - but simply disagree, and let no one misunderstand this.
madam president, one of the main measures for 2007 is border control. this will be achieved through the second generation schengen, the vis, the operation of frontex, the extended use of biometric data and the creation of central databases for data retention. the security of citizens and the management of migration flows within the union are at the forefront of all this. in reality, however, a european fortress is being created, with an emphasis on policies to stop migrants rather than protect them, and at the same time the creation of a police state is being promoted. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european agency for safety and health at work, the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of chemical weapons, the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of chemical weapons, and the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of chemical weapons. the potential for private interference - often with politically controlled interests - in the formulation and management of security policies is worrying. the commission's proposal also refers to the fight against propaganda for terrorism, and the question we are asking is where and by whom the limits of freedom of expression are to be set, politically and ideologically impartially, when today liberation movements are being accused and political parties are being labelled as terrorist organisations.
mr president, europe, peace, human rights, palestine, gaza - all these words are part of a vocabulary we use. the reality is full of war, misery, pain. and here we continue to talk, pass resolutions, repeat: "human rights", "peace". we just keep talking to each other. how many crimes and how many deaths will it take for europe to stop playing pontius pilate ? in palestine, not only people die, but hope dies. and yet, i believe human pain is not common. the european parliament's visit has been postponed. they told us it was for technical reasons. i think that the commission should be able to explain to us what the technical reasons were and who is responsible for this. didn't somebody want us to go? and if we do not act, we will again be complicit in crimes that have been committed, not today, not yesterday, but - to our knowledge - for decades. the words must finally be acted upon. and within the framework of international law and without any intention to harm the common people, sanctions must also be imposed on israel. when will the state of israel finally be pleased to return the money it has withheld from the beneficiaries of starving palestinians? the palestinians are not terrorists, nor are they beggars. it is a people fighting against the interests of others for their dignity and survival. it is a people who, against the hypocrisy of the international community, the occupation and the terror, are fighting to continue to exist.
mr president, the israeli government and the army have apologised for the tragic ‘technical mistake’ that resulted in the killing of 19 innocent civilians, mostly women and children, at beit hanoun. the issue is not whether that apology is acceptable or not; it is that the use of such powerful force so easily and so frequently is bound to result in ‘technical mistakes’, particularly when the threshold of consideration for human life is so low. israel and palestine will never find peace and tranquillity if they carry on being trigger-happy. the palestinians will never succeed with qassam rockets and suicide bombers. the israelis will always invite more qassams and more suicide bombers when they respond so disproportionately and so powerfully. no side can win unilaterally. unilateralism is dead and buried in lebanon. thinking positively, let us take stock of prime minister olmert’s call to president abbas for talks without preconditions, progress in the formation of a national unity government between fatah and hamas, a government of technocrats – with prime minister haniya abstaining from its leadership – and implicit acceptance by hamas that they should sit at the same table with israel. it is time for the quartet to act and for the european union to cease being a passive member of it. finally, i hope that the result of the american elections will make the american administration review its policy and role in the middle east.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking mr libicki and the committee on petitions for raising this question. personal friends i have known for a long time are refugees from varosha and, therefore, i know the importance of the issue not only because of my portfolio but also because of my personal contacts. the united nations has the responsibility and competences to pursue a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus issue. the commission supports the united nations in these efforts and encourages the parties concerned to resume talks on such a settlement. the return of varosha to its lawful inhabitants is one of the key elements in the un-led process. if agreed by the parties, the return of varosha will have to take place under the auspices of the united nations. the annan plan foresaw an early return of varosha to its lawful inhabitants. however, the plan, supported by the united nations and the european union, fell in 2004. the return of varosha is a separate issue from the introduction of direct trade between the turkish cypriot community and the rest of the european union. direct trade is a matter of eu competence. the commission proposed a draft regulation to this effect in july 2004. successive eu presidencies, in seeking to establish a consensus in the council on the direct trade regulation, have investigated possible solutions, but without success so far. the finnish presidency is making substantial diplomatic efforts to unblock the current stalemate and the commission fully supports the presidency in its efforts. the finnish formula would create a genuine win-win situation for both communities and all parties concerned. it would be a major confidence-building measure towards a comprehensive settlement, thus meaning also a prospect of the return of varosha. creating a win-win situation has been the essence of european integration since the times of robert schuman and konrad adenauer, who united france and germany just five years after the most bitter and devastating war on earth was fought on their soil. over the past 42 years there has been enough talk of ‘red lines’ and ‘blackmail’ in the eastern mediterranean. that is pre-modern talk in today’s post-modern europe. it is high time to replace red lines with bridge-building and win-win thinking, because that is what the european union is all about.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the famagusta question is primarily a humanitarian one. that was precisely the basis on which the famagusta refugee movement presented its petition to the committee on petitions. for 32 years now, over 30 000 people have dreamt day and night about going back to their homes. thirty-two years is too long. the beautiful city of famagusta is still uninhabited. it is a ghost town. turkey cynically insists on keeping it as a bargaining tool. naturally, the question the inhabitants of famagusta are asking is what the international community is doing, and what the european union is doing, to help them go back to their homes. the commissioner has said that everybody is trying. however, the issue is very simple. there is an empty city to be given to its lawful inhabitants. there are other bargaining tools for turkey to use. turkey is not being sent the right message on what should be done. the deliberations on famagusta are the first big step towards a proper solution to the cyprus problem based on united nations resolutions and european values. turkey has to take that step now, in the interests of justice, in the interests of turkey and in the interests of greek and turkish cypriots, as mr libicki has said. the desperate appeal coming from those refugees from famagusta who are still alive is: ‘help us to go back home’. let us help them, commissioner. now is the time.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the taking of hostages by terrorists and their subsequent holding to ransom has not been an uncommon occurrence in recent years. it is a despicable act of satanic criminal perversion, and is widely and universally condemned by all those with even the slightest degree of common sense. equally, the taking of a city as hostage by a country which has invaded another and then uses that city to extract political gains by blackmail is a case of psychopathic barbarism of immense magnitude and unintelligible reasoning. this is what has happened in the case of famagusta. up until 1974, famagusta was a thriving city full of life and vigour, with a rich history going back thousands of years, surrounded by blossoming citrus fruit orchards, lying on a golden sandy coast. it was a city of enviable beauty. famagusta was widely regarded by many as the jewel of the eastern mediterranean. its peace-loving inhabitants went about their daily lives, working hard to achieve progress and prosperity. but in the summer of 1974, all their dreams were shattered. after repeated severe and catastrophic air bombardments, the city was overrun by droves of turkish soldiers, tanks and armoured vehicles, spreading death and destruction in their path. in horror, the inhabitants fled, trying desperately to save the lives of their loved ones and carrying with them the bare essentials needed to survive. most of them found refuge on an area of high ground a few kilometres to the south of the city, where they lived in makeshift refugee camps, and from where they watched their homes being looted by turkish soldiers. apart from furniture and other household effects, the invaders took away doors, windows, pipes, roof tiles and everything else they could lay their hands on. then they fenced off the whole city, declared it a military zone and put guards around it. this state of affairs continues today, 33 years later. whenever an inhabitant, driven by homesick desperation, has tried to approach his fenced city, he has been shot dead on the spot or arrested by turkish soldiers and tried in turkish military courts on grounds of entering a high security military area. the ghost city of famagusta has many times been the focus of attention in various un resolutions, and in between the ‘ifs’ and ‘whens’ and ‘hows’ of hazy diplomatic language, the people of famagusta have tried to believe time and time again that they will return to their homes. but this has all been an illusion, because in the real world of political diplomacy it is almost always the strong who have their way. in the case of cyprus, turkey was, and still is, by far the strongest. just as the refugees from famagusta were about to become totally disillusioned with the uns and security councils of this world, new hope suddenly emerged in the form of cyprus’ accession to the eu. men, women and children were suddenly uttering words like ‘the european acquis communautaire’ and ‘the principles and values upon which the eu is founded’. many were even convinced that after accession the eu would force turkey to return famagusta to its rightful occupants. how simple-minded they were. little did they realise that the eu mainly cares about trading in the vast turkish market and not about the old-fashioned principles of justice and freedom. little did they know that the eu mainly views turkey as being of close to almighty importance in counteracting the threat of islamic fundamentalists. and so, dear colleagues, we find ourselves today talking, talking and talking about the right of famagustians to go home. most probably, if turkey has its way, we shall continue talking about it for a long time to come, while the great eu goes on being proud of its principles and values, and almost everybody will be happy – especially the turkish government – apart from the people of famagusta. we will gradually come to terms with their grief at having to watch their city, the jewel of the eastern mediterranean, slowly die away under the careful eye of the un, the security council, and now the eu.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the question of returning the fenced area of famagusta to its rightful residents was never part of the overall settlement of the cyprus problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the long-standing disconnect of the return of the city from the overall settlement is the one element i want to point out. the second point is that the commission, in its latest progress report on turkey, stresses that the implementation of the protocol is in itself a legal obligation which cannot be linked to the situation of the turkish cypriot community. the question of turkey's implementation of its commitments is therefore badly linked to the removal of the so-called isolation of the turkish cypriots, which, to the extent that it exists, is due solely to the turkish occupation. it is also wrong that circles in the european union accept this link. but once this link is made, the proposal of the cypriot government for the joint use of the port of famagusta, under the auspices of the un and under the supervision of the european commission, combined with the return of the legal residents of the city, can be the golden thread that will help to overcome the obvious and highly undesirable impasse. the turkish cypriots are not the only ones who have been affected by the recent events in cyprus. the turkish cypriots, while losing absolutely nothing by returning the city, deserted for 32 years, to its legal residents, secure the right to conduct foreign trade through the port. the turkish authorities have also been asked to provide information on the situation in cyprus, including the number of people who have been detained and the number of people who have been released. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the principles of the european union. in conclusion, mr president, the return of sandwich to its rightful residents is the key to addressing the current difficulties in a way that serves the well-defined interests of all parties. if everyone can rise to the occasion and apply common sense, we are moderately optimistic that the emerging complication will be successfully dealt with.
author. – mr president, the issue of human rights in ethiopia has been the subject of numerous previous motions for resolution in this house. unfortunately, it seems that our advisory words of wisdom and strong condemnation have been falling on deaf ears as far as the ethiopian government is concerned. however, who can blame it for behaving in such an arbitrary and totally unacceptable manner towards this parliament when the commission, for reasons best known to itself, invited prime minister meles zenawi to address the european development days specifically on governance issues? that inevitably sent out the wrong signal with regard to the eu’s policy on respect for human rights, democratic principles, the rule of law and good governance. perhaps the commissioner might be kind enough to explain to us today what the logic was behind that invitation. we all understand the difficulties ethiopia has been facing in its troubled post-colonial history and realise that some blame lies clearly and squarely with the ex-colonisers. we all want to help the ethiopian people to achieve an acceptable standard of living, free of the evils of internal fighting and regional conflict. however, the governing regime in addis ababa must understand comprehensively and unequivocally that the highly-desired political stability will not be achieved through continuing arrests, harassment, arbitrary detention, humiliation and the intimidation of opposition politicians, civil society activists, students and other ordinary citizens. such actions are, on the contrary, bound to lead to a deterioration of the already fragile political situation in ethiopia, and the feared further worsening of the situation will become a certainty rather than a possibility. i urge colleagues to support this motion for a resolution, and i wait with interest to hear the commissioner’s comments on the issue of the invitation to mr meles zenawi.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in the last year we have suddenly witnessed a deterioration in the situation regarding respect for civil rights and political freedoms in iran. this has been acknowledged by the iranian authorities themselves in a move which in itself is a healthy sign. a report prepared by the judiciary provides clear and detailed evidence of human rights violations, including torture and the maltreatment of prisoners. in addition, there are numerous reported cases in iran today of executions of juvenile offenders and persecution of liberal and secular academics and journalists. furthermore, freedom of religion, freedom of the press and the rights of women, as well as minority rights, are not properly respected. the authorities in tehran have to realise that there can be no excuse for violating the basic human rights of its proud people and that, if such violations continue, this will only harm iran’s attempts to achieve stability, progress and prosperity for its own citizens, and will no doubt further adversely affect its relations with the west.
mr president, hard drug abuse is a worldwide disease for which there is no significant cure. people suffering from this serious illness must get their daily drug dose irrespective of cost or danger to themselves. they will steal, prostitute themselves or kill if necessary in order to obtain their required drug. in satisfying their dependency, they are providing life support for the flourishing drug-trafficking criminals. many will die from the consequences of their addiction; others will suffer severe complications. our society has been trying to deal with this problem using expensive police methods, partly due to ignorance and partly due to desperation. these methods have failed conclusively because drug addicts need the help of a doctor, not a policeman. recently, some courageous senior police officers, including a deputy chief constable in the uk, have called for a change in tactics. they are right! let us consider taking the brave step of beginning to treat drug abuse victims by providing them with their required drug in a controlled medical environment, free of charge, free of complications, free of police and the law and free of crime. let us at last start treating them like patients, not criminals.
member of the commission. mr president, the issue of high-quality health services is of great importance to all european citizens. moreover, the right to healthcare is a fundamental right recognised by the eu charter. nevertheless, health services are primarily national in nature. there is, however, broad consensus that there is a clear added value in cooperation on health services at european level. together with the member states, the commission has been conducting a mapping exercise on common principles and elements of healthcare in the european union. special attention was paid to patients’ rights. according to our preliminary results, there are indeed common elements of patients’ rights shared by eu health systems. these include providing timely and appropriate healthcare, sufficient information to patients about different treatment options, respecting confidentiality of health data and compensation for harm from negligence in healthcare. however, the mechanisms in place across the member states to implement these principles vary widely in practice. they range from patients’ rights laws to non-binding patient charters, legal obligations for health professionals, patient ombudsmen, etc. moreover, those mechanisms do not sufficiently take into account the situation of patients to or from other member states. this is a particular area where community on health services could help to improve the situation. as parliament is aware, we have recently launched a public consultation regarding community action on health services. this public consultation explicitly addresses issues directly linked to patients’ rights. depending on the outcome of the consultation, issues relating to patients’ rights could be addressed through proposals for community action in 2007, whilst of course respecting subsidiarity. whether this would be a legislative proposal or rather take the form of a charter on patients’ rights will depend, as i have said, on the results of the consultation. i look forward to listening to the views of members in today’s debate.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we are truly delighted that this important debate is taking place so promptly after a question on patients’ rights was tabled by several alde group members, which was in fact initiated by dr parvanova, a bulgarian observer colleague. we are also very grateful to commissioner kyprianou for the genuine interest and concern he has shown in speedily and efficiently dealing with the question on patients’ rights in the eu. with regard to the commission statement which is the subject of this debate, we take the view that it should cover areas like recognition that comparable standards of healthcare and a common set of patients’ rights should be discussed at eu level in order to have the added value of the internal market on healthcare issues, and in order to empower patients to fully recognise and exercise their rights. furthermore, we have always believed that in the discussions on patients’ rights in europe, the commission should take into account previous work done by civil society organisations in respect of drafting the european charter of patients’ rights.
mr president, last week turkey made a so-called "diplomatic move" by agreeing to open a port and an airport for trade with the republic of cyprus. the timing was a little odd, since it happened during the coreper meeting. however, this turkish proposal is nothing but a futile, unacceptable and provocative manoeuvre aimed at circumventing the obligations undertaken by ankara towards the european union and its member countries. the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in cyprus, which is a country which is not yet in a position to take action on its own behalf. turkey's obligations towards the european union are very specific and not subject to the logic of bargaining. the european union should therefore reject the turkish proposals without a second thought. i believe that the european parliament must, with one voice, reject this unacceptably provocative offer.
mr president, f-type isolation prisons for political detainees were introduced in turkey at the end of 2000 with the aim of psychologically breaking, and subsequently re-educating, the prisoners. in the last 6 years, 28 people have been killed, 122 have died on hunger strike and there have been thousands of protests from within, as well outside, turkey. mr behiç aşçı, an istanbul lawyer representing f-type prisoners, has been on hunger strike for 251 days. mr president, you yourself, much to your credit, took some protest actions a few weeks ago, but the turkish authorities have been stubbornly deaf. mr aşçı is now very near to death. i plead with you to communicate directly and urgently with the turkish prime minister and request that he deal with the case of mr aşçı personally in a last effort to save the life of a european-minded turkish idealist.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, firstly i wish to congratulate mrs sinnott on her excellent report, which deserves our full support. the subject matter of this draft legislative resolution is undoubtedly extremely important, as it concerns the premature deaths of more than 200 000 eu citizens annually and the injury of several million individuals in the 25 member states. some of these injuries are horrific, and many result in the permanent disfigurement or severe lifelong disability of thousands of people. two main aspects of the prevention of accidental injury are: the identification and assessment of risks factors, and the proper communication and implementation of safety measures. mrs sinnott correctly notes that, in addition to the gathering of information on injuries by way of establishing a surveillance system, the council’s report needs to be enriched by placing more emphasis on the promotion of safety and raising risk-awareness among the general public. of the numerous serious risk factors affecting human life, allow me to concentrate on just one: alcohol and road safety. in this area, there is much to be done in terms of prevention. the use of alcohol by drivers is extremely dangerous, mainly because alcohol suppresses our higher-level brain function, resulting in impairment of sense perception, slowness of reflexes, disturbance of locomotor muscle coordination and poor understanding of danger. in this respect, alcohol has, through the years, been responsible for the deaths of millions of road users worldwide. yet, either because of ignorance, or more likely as a result of very strong lobbying by the alcohol industry, we fail to comprehend fully that much more drastic action on drink-driving is necessary. instead, we are led to believe that alcohol intake is safe below certain limits, i.e. 50 mg per 100 ml of blood in most eu countries. this is totally wrong in my view. there is no safe limit for alcohol and driving. any alcohol intake, however small, will affect brain activity to some extent. whereas a driver with a blood alcohol level of 20, 30 or 40 mg/100 ml might be legally entitled to drive, he or she is at a much higher risk of being involved in an accident than someone without any alcohol in their blood at all. our state education systems, as well as our legal systems, give our drivers a false sense of security in allowing them to think that, as long as they do not drink excessively, they are safe on the roads. this is criminally wrong and we must correct this situation by helping to bring about a zero-alcohol-level approach for drivers. only then can we hope to reduce significantly the number of alcohol-related road deaths. but – and unfortunately there is always a ‘but’ in politics – how many of us are willing and able to take on the task of fighting for no-alcohol intake legislation for drivers, and how many of us will survive politically if we come into direct conflict with the alcohol-related industries by supporting a zero-alcohol level for drivers? in conclusion, if there is an important injury-prevention message for our people this christmas, it is that alcohol is a killer on the roads, in large as well as small quantities, and that the only safe driving alcohol level is a zero level.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, commissioner, my congratulations to the rapporteur mrs klaß, the ep delegation chairwoman, mrs roth-behrendt, commissioner dimas, the council and all those who have made it possible for this directive to go through conciliation successfully. many will say that this directive is long overdue, and they are most probably right. but, as my english colleagues wisely say, better late than never. many will also say that this directive does not go far enough in ensuring the utmost protection of our groundwater and they, too, are probably right; but when the issue at hand is so complicated and when the stakes and stakeholders involved are so numerous and significant, the need for an agreed compromise is paramount and essential. indeed, some compromises were made, for example on nitrates and on the revision clause period, but these were part of an overall balanced and fair agreement. on the other hand, issues like the protection of public health being sufficient justification for laying down more stringent limit values for pollutants such as pesticides were correctly re-emphasised in the directive. additionally, and most significantly, reference to the water framework directive was justifiably included in a recital. but, perhaps most significantly, the ep delegation secured a broader role for parliament in future decision-making and consequently a role in overall surveillance of correct and adequate implementation. indeed, implementation is an area where i feel that weaknesses may emerge and it cannot be emphasised too strongly that a watchful eye and strict adherence to the rules and regulations must be achieved if we are to secure high quality of our valuable groundwater reserves for ourselves and for future generations of europeans. in conclusion, we have before us a balanced and most satisfactory compromise that deserves our full and undivided support.
british antarctic territory, british indian ocean territory, british virgin islands, cayman islands, gibraltar, montserrat, pitcairn islands, st helena, south georgia, south sandwich islands, turks and caicos islands and the sovereign base areas of akrotiri and dhekelia in cyprus. the above – 14 in number – are reported as being british overseas territories, previously known as british crown colonies. all but one are outside the eu. they are 21st-century colonies that are located across the globe in strategic positions. they are collectively inhabited by many thousands of human beings. they have no elected governments and almost all have no law-making elected parliament. they are not represented in the un. the queen of england is their head of state and most are run by a governor or an administrator appointed by the british government. they are under the sovereignty of britain and are occupied by the british army. yet, in this 250-page report on human rights and democracy, as in all previous reports like it, there is not a single word about them. i should like to ask the president-in-office and commissioner ferrero-waldner why this is so. i await their answers with keen interest.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this good debate, during which we have received criticism from several members of this house about the preparations. this criticism will of course be taken into account and in future efforts will be made to improve the consultation of the european parliament as well. perhaps because this report is based on a 1998 european council decision, it is also being prepared within the council. but we can certainly improve our performance in this respect. it should also be remembered that the report does not seek to address all possible human rights problems in the world, but focuses primarily on presenting the human rights work carried out within the framework of the european union institutions. as i said in my opening speech, the main recent focus has been on mainstreaming human rights into other policies, and it is of course very important to do this by enhancing the effectiveness of the european union's external action as a whole, so that human rights are fully taken into account in external relations and development cooperation and that we see, for example, the link between human rights and security. significant progress has been made in the past year with the agreement to set up a european fundamental rights agency. it will also help to strengthen human rights work within the european union. the commissioner pointed out that there was agreement on the human rights instrument. i warmly thank parliament for this cooperation. this instrument will certainly help to make the european union's human rights work more effective. it must be remembered that human rights issues are not just topical and superficial issues, but are also, and above all, a very long-term, long-term work, which also requires patience to achieve results. the debate also raised the almost philosophical question of whether we have done all we can to improve human rights. it is often a question of finding the right balance between persuasion and critical action, between incentives and restraints. it is clear that dialogue usually leads to a better result than a breakdown. it is important to demonstrate that the european union applies the same standards to all partners in its human rights work. sadly, it is also important to remember that, despite our best efforts, our strength may not be enough to heal the whole world. there are therefore many challenges in the human rights sector, and this debate will certainly provide a good basis for further work by all the institutions of the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, as time is short, i shall answer specific questions. i shall begin with the damas de blanco mentioned by mr galeote. the intended visit by parliament’s representatives to the damas de blanco is a good idea, and we hope, and we will do our best, to ensure that the ep delegation can meet a representative of the cuban government. under the european initiative for democracy and human rights, cuba has been one of the countries targeted under campaign 3 to promote the democratic process. we shall try to go on with that. we have also continuously requested the freeing of political prisoners and an end to the active repression of members of the political opposition and human rights activists. another member asked what the european union and the commission are doing in palestine. if you consider human security – that is, freedom from want and freedom from fear – as the basis for human dignity, then no one else has done more than us to help the palestinians with the basic services of health and energy and to at least maintain those basic services under very difficult circumstances through the temporary international mechanism and additional measures. in particular, we have funded two elections – presidential and parliamentary – and we have also sent observers to observe those elections in order to create the basis for democracy. on the whole, human rights, democracy and the rule of law have a fundamental place in all our enp action plans; they are not only written into them but are also implemented, and we try to monitor their implementation. on china, let me just say that in the future the inclusion of human rights, an essential clause in the new agreement that will be negotiated with china, will also hopefully reinforce the human rights dialogue that has been going on for 11 years, thus demonstrating our firm adherence to the principles of human rights and democracy in eu external policy. as we have all seen today, with the new winner of the sakharov prize, we are working very strongly towards a democratic society in belarus. on 21 november we launched a non-paper, in which we show the belarusian people what they could have if the regime changed and if they engaged in more democratisation, improving human rights and the rule of law. those are only a few examples, but i know time is pressing and therefore i cannot go into each and every question that has been raised here. i thank you for the debate. it has given all of us a chance to follow on. i hope that next year we shall be ready to work together on a joint human rights report by the council, the commission and the european parliament.
mr president, with respect, these debates are useful if they provide answers to our questions. i asked a very important question about human rights and democracy in british colonies. i have been given no answer.
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the two rapporteurs have presented two excellent reports today. i congratulate them because they have put things in their place with brevity, substance and substance. there is a question that is constantly being asked in the european union: what about europe? and this question is broken down into other questions: what kind of european union do they want? how large a european union do they want? is the european union functioning effectively today? these are agonizing questions that need to be answered, and the answers lie in the vision we want to serve. what is our vision? we share a vision. we want a european union which is democratic, which is prosperous, which is human! we want a european union which plays a regulatory role in world affairs! that is why enlargement is not an end in itself. the enlargement is part of the vision, so we can't put the cart before the horse, we have to go with these two! in this respect mr rehn is right when he says that enlargement and deepening are two - i would add - sides of the same coin. but we cannot talk about enlargement at the expense of quality and in favour of enlargement - europe is not an expansionist objective - without taking account of the circumstances in which we live. it is not the european union which has to adapt to enlargement. it is every country that wants to join the european union that has to adapt! and speaking of croatia and turkey, it is certainly good that we want turkey to move forward into the european union, but we stopped croatia when it violated the conditions we set for it. i don't mean we should have ended up here. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i would like to refer to one of the two reports we are discussing today, the stubb report. it is a report which promotes the effort to increase the functionality of the union in terms of decision-making procedures and to institute it in such a way that decisions are taken essentially by its core leadership without a right of veto in the smaller and, eventually, more independent states. the rapporteur has obviously not listened to public opinion, which has repeatedly rejected the constitutional treaty. it is not possible to explain otherwise the fact that he is digging up a dead text and adopting the anti-democratic provisions. the content of the changes deepens the lack of democracy, rather than reducing or abolishing it. they aim to promote the constitutional treaty with its anti-people content by 2009. instead of extending the rights of citizens and their information, the functioning and decision-making process of the european union are, as is obvious, understood as an almost exclusive right of the powerful circles of the european union. i am very sorry that once again the citizen is left out.
mr president, european values and the principles of justice, democracy, freedom of speech and respect for human rights: fine words, mostly spoken in excess at inconsequential ceremonies and meaningless functions of hypocrisy, but seldom seriously meant or implemented. the decadence of the european spirit, coupled with the championship of subordination to the us administration, reigns supreme in a european union that is threatened with disintegration from within by the short-sightedness of enlargement commissioners, and through backstabbing by britannic leaders forever poodling to the wishes of their transatlantic masters. this is the sorry state of affairs of a commission and council that are gradually sinking the eu into disillusion by allowing a military-controlled asiatic state, instead of fulfilling its obligations, to dictate its terms for granting us the honour of joining the eu. dear colleagues, make no mistake. with this kind of turkish accession, it is not the eu that will be enlarging, but turkey. so, mr rehn, congratulations on your determined efforts to accomplish the successful accession of the eu to a revived grand turkish ottoman empire, and good luck to our citizens who are watching in dismay and helplessness!
mr president, finally there has been no collision of trains! the government of cyprus has agreed with its partners to the so-called ‘delay’ of turkey’s train. let us not fool ourselves. we are not supposed to open most of the suspended chapters anyhow as it will take some years to gather the benchmarks and closing a chapter is a formality – it means nothing once all the other work has been completed. as to the reviews, these take place every year anyhow. cyprus has often been overplayed as the reason for the collision of the trains. now, it is essentially out of the way. the european union is free to see reality face to face. turkey has ignored and still declares that it will ignore its obligations concerning its customs union agreement, an obligation that existed well before the issue of the so-called isolation of the turkish cypriots. the real questions are now in front of us: freedom of expression, freedom of religious minorities, the human rights record in southern turkey, treatment of women, the issues of corruption, the intervention of the military in government and judiciary affairs. only two days ago, general buyukanit admonished the erdogan government for not getting his permission for what finally proved to be a conditional opening of one port to cypriot ships. some say that we should not see turkey as it is today. think of how turkey will be in 15 years’ time! turkey has given us some idea as to its will to become a true european democracy. it knows how to get away with it!
the european council has already made a number of important decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. the first is immigration policies. a recent document from the defense council states: globalisation will produce winners and losers at the level of states, regions and societies. in africa, the average life expectancy will be 22 years, while the population will be concentrated in big cities with high unemployment and consequences in humanitarian catastrophe, despair and migration. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat poverty and to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat it. the second, mr president, concerns the enlargement of the european union and therefore the accession of turkey. the decisions of the foreign affairs council, under the circumstances, are considered satisfactory because they send a message to turkey, while at the same time the european union assumes the responsibility to be consistent in its positions to the end. the european union is not prepared to accept the accession of turkey, but we are prepared to accept the accession of cyprus, and we are prepared to accept the accession of turkey. the republic of cyprus is working tirelessly to improve the living conditions of the turkish cypriots and, in fact, the difficulties encountered in this endeavour stem from the illegal occupation of 37% of cyprus by turkey. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is in everyone's interest for the sake of flexibility and compromise not to abolish basic principles and values.
mr president, it is obvious that the european union has two major headaches today: one is the constitutional treaty and the other is enlargement. on the issue of the constitutional treaty, we have to admit that we did not make much of it – we failed to achieve positive and tangible results. we have to work harder so that we will soon have a constitutional charter for the european union. with regard to enlargement, unfortunately, whenever we speak about this, we refer to turkey, and the situation is aggravated when we take into consideration the lenient position of the european union towards turkey. we strongly support the europeanisation of turkey. on the issue of the failure of turkey to implement its commitments towards the european union, we hope that turkey will be made to understand that it was turkey that applied for accession to the european union and not the other way round. we will have to wait and see. the method of compromise is good, but, when it violates the boundaries of principles and values, it is bad. turkey has to get rid of the headache that is the cyprus problem by allowing a fair solution acceptable to both communities, by withdrawing its forces and by ending the isolation of the turkish cypriots, because the cause of isolation is the occupation. the european union has to play a decisive role in finding a solution to the cyprus problem based on european values and principles.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, there is now ample evidence that a number of united nations peacekeepers have, in recent years, been involved in hideous crimes against the vulnerable civilian populations they are supposed to protect. these crimes include such abominable acts as rape and sexual exploitation of children. in considering the subject, there are three aspects that are extremely worrisome and disconcerting. first, it is almost certain that the reported and investigated cases are only the tip of the iceberg. some claim that, for every case investigated, there are ten that will never come to light. second, in most instances a cover-up operation is put in motion, not just by the criminals involved, but also by their superiors in command – the comradeship-in-arms of soldiers becoming the conspiracy and concealment of criminals. in any event, carrying out a proper investigation under the circumstances involved is not just difficult, but, in most cases, it is impossible. of relevance here is the fact that jurisdiction over un soldiers lies with the country of origin of the individuals involved. such a jurisdiction process is strewn with procedural and legal problems and, in effect, provides un soldiers with immunity from prosecution. third, in most cases investigated and found to be substantiated, the guilty get away with minimal punishment. ordinarily, a paedophiliac rapist would get life imprisonment in most countries, but a un paedophiliac rapist would probably merely be disciplined, or would just be excluded from again being hired by un missions. this shameful, despicable and abhorrent criminal activity by un personnel cannot go unpunished, and neither can the ultimate political responsibility of the un hierarchy be swept under the carpet. the outgoing un secretary-general, mr kofi annan, has a lot of explaining to do in this respect.
author. – mr president, commissioner, in recent years burma has regularly been on the eu’s human rights agenda. for good reason, too, since the burmese authorities continue to subject their citizens to gross human rights violations, including forced labour, persecution of political opponents and forced relocation. a glaring example of the anachronistically deficient attitude exhibited by the profoundly irrational burmese military regime is the fact that the national league for democracy (nld) leader, nobel peace prize laureate and sakharov prize winner, aung san suu kyi, has been under house arrest for the last ten years, despite an overwhelming international outcry. while the burmese population suffers exhaustively through malnutrition and disease, the burmese government has thought it wise to embark on persecution of red cross representatives across the country. in considering how to make such a totalitarian governing body understand our resolve to protect the human rights of the burmese people, we are of the opinion that targeted sanctions, focused on economic income revenue to the junta, must be implemented. furthermore, we call upon countries that continue to supply burma with weapons to cease to do so. additionally, we expect the un security council to adopt a binding strict resolution on burma. we hope that, eventually, the blinded military dictators of burma will finally see the light of sense and democracy and hand over power to a civilian-elected government.
mr president, i shall confine myself to the reference made by the president of the council to the question of enlargement, and particularly to turkey. if the translation came to me correctly, i would beg him to correct the reference to 'northern cyprus'. the european union is not a party to the cyprus agreement, but it is a party to the cyprus agreement, and it is a party to the cyprus agreement, and it is a party to the cyprus agreement.
