mr president, the recent dispute between russia and ukraine over natural gas supplies and the continuing rise in oil prices show europe's great vulnerability in the supply of this vital raw material. europe is increasingly dependent on imports, often from very unstable regions. for example, in oil, 60% of the world's supply is imported, and in the future, it will be more. it turns out that no single country, even the largest in the european union, will be able to solve these problems on its own in the future. i would therefore like to call again on the european commission and the european council to prepare a proposal for a common energy policy as a matter of urgency, which would also be linked to the common foreign and security policy. i think we cannot be in the future, as we are now, dependent and at the mercy of some authoritarian or totalitarian regime in our immediate vicinity.
i must close this very long debate. we are out of time. the normal working time for the interpreters is until 10 p.m. we still have another debate, so we must move on. the debate is closed. written statement (rule 142)
the next item is the commission statement on climate change.
i have received the motion for a resolution (see minutes) tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. this debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commission has been working on a new proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. aviation in general is a lifelong subject for me, if you will love. i started flying actively 40 years ago. i have always been proud that this area of human activity, in particular aviation, can serve as an example of effective broad international cooperation, regardless of, for example, ideology, which among other things ensures that aviation is in fact the safest mode of transport. for these reasons in particular, i have no problem in supporting today's reports, which aim to strengthen international cooperation and thereby improve the quality and efficiency of aviation and increase safety. however, for the recommendation not to admit russia to the wto and given that the fees for flying over siberia have not been abolished, i cannot unequivocally support this particular report. in the interests of clarity, i am not in favour of charging itself as a non-systemic solution, but i consider it unacceptable to threaten a sovereign state de facto and, in practice, to remove one obstacle and build another, in my opinion, much more serious. i prefer a tough, transparent, but still negotiable, negotiable.
air traffic is definitely at a crossroads today. the high oil price increase last year has caused many companies great problems. many of them suffered heavy losses, and in the united states, the government is even involved in rescuing some of them again. the second problem is low-cost companies. the question is to what extent these developed country carriers comply with icao and ilo standards or the oecd guiding principles for multinational enterprises. the question is whether we are able to effectively monitor and enforce the european community directives mentioned in articles 24 and 25 of the report on the development of the community's external aviation policy. i am also aware of the difficulty of negotiating, in particular with our major partners, russia and china, on the report on relations with the russian federation and china in the field of air transport. perhaps the most difficult situation is in dealing with the united states, where the relationship is still borderline unfair competition. in spite of these great difficulties in dealing with the community's external partners, i would like to stress that these are very necessary and important procedures without which further development in air transport is not possible. the note by rapporteur saïd el khadraoui at the end of the report is particularly important. the place of work for cabotage in the countries of the european union is considered to be those countries and therefore the working conditions should be appropriate. this means that cabotage should be considered an occupation in the european union in the field of air transport. i would like to emphasise here that this approach of extension to the whole service area needs to be complemented by a method of applying a higher standard. then, in this and other areas, it is possible to start negotiating market opening, the liberalisation of cabotage in transport, and this approach can also open up new possibilities for negotiating a directive on services, including public services. it can therefore be said that the adoption of these two reports opens up the possibility of negotiations not only in air transport, and the possibilities for applying the new principles suggested here can be ground-breaking and are welcomed by the gue/ngl group.
thank you, commissioner, for your careful answer. you have rightly stated that legal certainty in the payment of healthcare in any member state is a fundamental advantage and is essential for the free movement of citizens and their services within the european market. allow me to ask a question as well as the former secretary of health and the director of a large teaching hospital. is the commission aware that the services directive is a key opportunity to establish clear conditions, a clear right to reimbursement of non-acute healthcare for citizens of twenty-five countries without breaching subsidiarity, and that it is no longer sustainable for the european court of justice to continue to guarantee and interpret this right, or even that this could be ensured by the continuing discussion of a high representative group which has no legislative power and cannot provide legal certainty? (the president withdrew the floor.)
ladies and gentlemen, as i am sure you all know, cube sugar is a czech invention, and that is why i, as a czech member of parliament, would like to make a few comments on the proposal for the reorganisation of the sugar market. note one. i would like to welcome the efforts of the european council and the european commission to reform the european sugar policy. the current form of this policy is completely absurd and costs taxpayers and consumers too much money. this situation must be changed as soon as possible and the whole market must be deregulated and liberalised. note two. it is regrettable that the reform of the sugar regime is taking place only after this european policy has been found unfair by the world trade organisation. this is something we should think about throughout the union. why are we unable to liberalise our markets ourselves and have to be forced to do so by other states? after all, free trade and free markets have historically brought prosperity to the nations of europe, whereas economic protectionism has brought misery. yet in this parliament, the protectionists seem to have a large representation. i disagree with their position in principle and will not support their amendments. the reform of the sugar regime must be implemented as soon as possible. note number three. in my hometown, a sugar factory operated from 1890 to 1994. what caused his collapse? opening up the sugar market after the fall of communism in my country. yes, the sugar factory in my town of lysé nad labem went bankrupt because it was unable to compete with the subsidised sugar factories in the european union. in the czech republic, more than 50 sugar factories went bankrupt or were closed during the 1990's. the people who worked in these mills lost their jobs and received no compensation, nor did the operators of these mills receive any compensation, nor did the sugar beet growers. the same process of market adjustment must now be followed by the sugar sector in the old eu states. the compensation offered is very generous, so adjustment will not be a problem. that's why i support sugar reform, and i think it could be more radical. the czech example shows that reform is feasible and manageable.
mr president, commissioner, this is not the first time that the european parliament has spoken out on the reform of the sugar regime. when we adopted a resolution last year calling, among other things, for a review of administrative quota cuts, particularly with regard to the new member states, i was one of the supporters. i am pleased that the commission has revised its original strategy and proposed a reform based on a reduction in the guaranteed sugar price to the benefit of competitive sugar and beet growers. i have reservations about the report under discussion, which calls for a lower reduction in the price of sugar than the one agreed by the member states in december. the state's agreement was a compromise that softened the commission's more ambitious proposal. firstly, it should be borne in mind that we have lost the wto and consequently have to meet the requirement to open the sugar market by 2009. in this context, i object to the excessive consideration of the interests of the least developed countries, which would like, on the one hand, to see sugar prices falling on non-european markets and, on the other, to see sugar prices maintained at a high level on the european market, to which they have privileged access. secondly, i would like to emphasise that a slower decline in the price of sugar compensates those less competitive and helps to maintain distortions in the sugar market. the losers from such a solution would not only be the competitive sugar producers but also, and above all, the european consumers, who would be the ones paying for the slight decline, literally. today, they have to pay three times as much for sugar as consumers in other parts of the world. is it right that they continue to subsidise the entire conservation system by buying every product containing sugar? let us remember that the main idea of the european union is to remove barriers to trade between us, not to preserve and strengthen it. let us show that we are the european parliament and are not afraid to introduce market mechanisms even where sugar is produced and sold.
mr president, i expect your presidency to make progress in the negotiations on the european constitution. i hope you will finally find the courage to tell the citizens out loud that the text that politicians are imposing is incomprehensible, unfair and, above all, does not solve the crisis of the current european union. austria has a basic prerequisite for such a declaration. it has already been through the experiment of european integration. less than a century ago, austria-hungary was a unique blend of the ministries of foreign affairs, war, finance, and the supreme court of auditors. it was made up of 21 european countries, and its citizens spoke many languages. but it only existed for 51 years. and why did it disappear? no one had the courage to face the problems that such a coexistence necessarily brings. politicians thought that the problems would "go away", that they would just disappear. we know the consequences. i therefore hope, mr president, that austria will not follow in the footsteps of its predecessors but will propose a re-writing of the european constitution so that it is practical, concise, understandable and fair to all.
mr president, after the successful deflection of the financial crisis at the december european council, we now face the challenge of overcoming the institutional crisis and putting the union on a footing that will enable it to face the challenges of a globalised world. i very much appreciate that austria intends to put the european constitution back into play as one of its priorities. i would like to draw attention to the difficulties that lie behind the direction that the commission and, in part, this parliament are pointing out. to continue the debate on citizens' expectations and then to prepare a new text that would seek to address both the necessary reform of the institutions and, at the same time, to respond to all the economic, social and security problems of europe. if we go down this road, we will be repeating the mistake that was the cause of last year's referendum failure, because it united all those who have any reservations about politics within the eu, regardless of their approach to the systemic setting of the union's institutional framework, in opposition to the constitution. we made this mistake by submitting for ratification a constitution which, in addition to the rules governing the functioning of the institutions, contained a summary of all the common policies. what we need today, in view of the forthcoming enlargement and the progressive change in the international order, is to separate the constitutional framework, that is, the first and second parts of the constitutional treaty, from the common policies in the third part. the first and second parts of the constitution were not disputed before the referendum, and bringing them to life through ratification will enable us, on the basis of reformed institutional rules, to effectively seek solutions to the most pressing problems facing our continent today. the main outcome of the austrian presidency should therefore be a concrete plan to separate the debate on the reform of the european institutions from the general debate on all other european problems.
the rapporteur of the committee on regional development. i am a proud member of the ind/dem group, which is not exactly described as eurosceptic, and so it may come as a surprise that i was entrusted with reporting on the opinion of the committee on regional development on the document on the reflection period after the defeat of the constitution. i regard this as a sign of the openness with which our committee has approached the problem. the principle of audiatur et altera pars - letting the other side be heard - is one of the basic conditions for genuine dialogue. my position has sparked a creative debate in the committee, and it has resulted in a reasonable compromise, which has not been without its teeth. the report was approved by all the members of the committee, none were against, four abstained. this shows that dialogue on the future of the union is possible. the report also endorses principles which i find lacking in the duff-voggenhuber report. it is above all the principle of legal prudence which should guide us not to refer constantly to the constitution, which is legally dead and resurrectible in its original form, in the standards we adopt during the period of reflection. the childish belief that the more we quote the constitution, the closer we get to the hope of its resuscitation, is misleading. it may be unnecessary to question these standards for once. the report of our committee also recommends that we establish cooperation with the institutions of the national and regional parliaments, where there is a high degree of competence and also a high degree of legitimacy, and not just for show and once a year, as the report we are discussing today recommends. unfortunately, it also offers a different tone. what i find most surprising is that it sets out in advance what the outcome of an open dialogue is going to be. they say it's to ratify the now-dead constitution in 2009. this is a profound disregard for the democratic will of the people in at least two of the union's member states. if we continue to prescribe the outcome of dialogue, if we limit dialogue to spectacular events with non-representative audiences, if we continue to spend money on making sure that only the whimsical side is heard, then there is no chance of making the structures of the european union more efficient.
ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to see that there has been a great report by my colleague charles tannock on the european neighbourhood policy. it takes a constructive approach to the problems that a european union panicked by globalisation must tackle. it is not possible to simply move the meridians and parallels of europe's map indefinitely with each enlargement of the union, thus limiting ourselves to our own sandbox. a place where you can always put your head in the sand before the problems of the world around you, and therefore of the neighbours of the european union. this is the phenomenon which i believe the report is trying to address. the european neighbourhood policy is about offering privileged relations between the union and its closest neighbours. it also contributes through financial instruments such as tacis or meda, which will be replaced by the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument from 2007. on the other hand, the european union is often not aware in this context that by providing financial assistance to neighbouring countries it should not be appropriating, and i am not afraid to say even buying, the right to dictate to them what and how they should or should not do. it is not about any incompetent or inferior states, and the union, in its sometimes arrogant self-interest, often forgets this. the european union must fully respect its neighbours and not try to push them around. it's the only way we can talk about good neighbor policy.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days and weeks there has been a lot of talk about europe's energy dependence on external sources. the european union countries are increasingly dependent on oil and gas imports, particularly from the countries mentioned in this report, such as russia, algeria, libya, egypt and azerbaijan, and other countries such as ukraine, belarus and georgia are transit countries through which these strategically important raw materials flow to us. i would like to point out in this context one aspect of the neighbourhood policy which we still do not pay enough attention to, namely regional cooperation. i am of the opinion that the purpose of the neighbourhood policy should not only be to strengthen bilateral relations, but also to strengthen regional cooperation between these countries, i.e. economic, cultural and political cooperation. and if we look at individual regions, like the south caucasus region, we see that this cooperation is very difficult, in many cases even non-existent. and yet, good neighbourly relations and regional cooperation between the countries in our neighbourhood are one of the prerequisites for achieving the objectives of the neighbourhood policy, i.e. among others, the objective of securing the supply of energy resources to the countries of the european union. i would therefore like to call on the european commission to devote much more attention than it has done so far to strengthening regional cooperation and also to resolving regional conflicts in the implementation of the neighbourhood policy, in the individual practical steps.
mr president, commissioner, i really admire your physical capacity. i address that comment to mr tannock too! the last round of eu enlargement dramatically changed the european external dimension. enlargement took place and we introduced the european neighbourhood policy. today's enp makes me think of nato's partnership for peace and enlargement. the copenhagen european council set out the criteria for enlargement and ten countries were ultimately admitted. the process lacked concept, planning and project management. let us not repeat the same mistake. point 1: let us say that enlargement is enlargement. the enp should be everything but enlargement. let us speak about the enp. point 2: we also need privileged partnerships. every power in history has had special relations. the eu needs them as well. a special, new 'a minus' category should be clearly defined. we all know that, for security, energy, economic, trade and even social, cultural and political reasons, there are already countries with which we have and need special relations, yet they will never – in the foreseeable future – become members of the eu. let us call that system the enp. point 3: the biggest mistake is the current situation: we do not speak about the enp; we speak about whether or not the balkans, ukraine and turkey – with or without a clear set of criteria – should be eligible for enlargement. clearly, the enp must be dissociated from the names of countries, and concepts and criteria should be introduced. point 4: criteria. geographical criteria should be discussed on the basis of the treaty. not all eligible countries have the capacity to fulfil the copenhagen criteria. we cannot lie to ourselves as regards the full respect of individual human rights, equal economic opportunities, full liberalisation and privatisation. we should concern ourselves with defining the 'a minus' copenhagen criteria. only if we are serious and transparent can we upgrade the region. point 5: institutions and our capacity. four freedoms should be analysed. the free movement of goods is acceptable but the free movement of people should be limited, as should the free movement of capital, but not the free movement of services. transparency and accountability are the cornerstone of stability, understanding and the fight against frustration, extremism and radicalism. let us be open, transparent and logical. we will all be secure and prosperous as a result.
good morning mr. chairman, good morning commissioner, you have our full support in all the steps you are taking in gaza. we welcome the israeli government's meeting last sunday, which clarified the issue of east jerusalem. we welcome the announcement of a ban on the use of weapons on election day in gaza and the west bank. we've been following hamas's latest developments closely. we know that we have to measure hamas and fatah's armed brigades with the same yardstick, use the same criteria. as the israeli delegation, we are ready to welcome general pistolesi here in parliament and to support him fully in his work. we are also fully prepared to support you, commissioner, in pressing the israeli side to fulfil its promise of free movement of persons, goods and information and, of course, to fully support the rafah agreement. we also know and are preparing for a debate on the final solution to the question of east jerusalem and final borders. however, commissioner, yesterday a delegation of lebanese members of parliament visited our parliament, two of whom were direct members of hezbollah. there was a very strong call for european aid to lebanon: "get rid of syria". i can only interpret this message from yesterday. but we all know that the fundamental problem of the middle east today is not palestine or syria, but iran. i would therefore like to make a brief point that it would be good to consider some precautionary measures in relation to iran. let's think about, for example, preventing iran from participating in the german world cup. let's think about the iaea's suspension of technical assistance in light of the current renewed iranian nuclear program. commissioner, let's think about banning iran air from landing in europe just as we think about restricting the movement of senior iranian officials. however, commissioner, since i come from the former czechoslovakia, allow me to make a very personal remark. as an arabist, in recent months, days and weeks, i have been watching with great concern the growing ambitions of russia in the middle east. it's not just iran, it's syria, yemen, iraq, and the rest of the world. we now have a unique opportunity to use russia as a partner and to say to the russians, if you have to deal with the iranians, show that you can. let's really take russia seriously, let's take them as serious partners and let's tell them that if you have the guts to do what you say, then do it. if you don't have the guts, don't meddle in the middle east, your meddling is dangerous.
the situation in egypt is very curious from the point of view of human rights. on the one hand, the european parliament was unable to resist the fact that the army prevented voters from entering the polling stations in a number of places during the last elections, and on the other hand, for peace in the middle east, political stability must be ensured in egypt. but is this to be done at the expense of the basic democratic rights of citizens? the resolution proposed is very cautionary in this respect. if the egyptian authorities today see a danger not only in the muslim brotherhood but also in trying to prevent the regulation of secular parties, then the situation is ripe for warning. this warning should help to correct the impression that we do not see a very unusual judicial procedure in egypt. if a problematic offense can result in a sentence of several years in prison, only two interpretations are offered. either there's a very unusual provision in the country's legal system or the outcome of the justice system indicates a political order. in no case can we remain indifferent. can we ignore the extradition of refugees from sudan or other countries to their countries of origin, to countries where they are in danger of death? the fact that a ceasefire is currently in place in sudan between the parties to the conflict does not mean that a solution to the conflict in darfur has been achieved. in this context, the situation of refugees and their possible repatriation should be addressed in cooperation with the governments of sudan and egypt. i'm aware of the problems involved. it is therefore necessary to support the work of the unhcr and to prevent further incidents that would be contrary to international obligations, in particular the un refugee convention. i find it completely unacceptable to torture detainees in the united states or to kill them in the liquidation of a refugee camp. the association agreement undoubtedly requires that such phenomena be investigated in the annual report, and i believe that this will be done, which is why i support the resolution.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, human rights are a set of ideals to which even the most democratic countries are only close in certain areas. in any case, cambodia until recently had problems with the remnants of the half-track armies, with illiteracy, with a lack of intelligence, with a non-existent industry. compared to this situation, the situation is undoubtedly much better. what cannot be tolerated, however, is the failure to observe the basic procedures for sentencing members of parliament to several years in prison. it is indisputable that the conditions for the performance of the tasks of representatives of international organisations must be ensured and that the development of freedom of the press and respect for trade union rights must be promoted. the fact-finding mission is certainly very desirable and i recommend that, in agreement with the government of the country, a representative of the european parliament be sent on the way as soon as possible. what particularly concerns me is the possibility of misusing justice to address so-called defamation. if we accept such an approach, then we can consider ourselves to be complicit in similar practices, which is why i wholeheartedly support the motion for a resolution.
mr solana mentioned in his introduction some of the events that had taken place in the past month and the challenges facing europe. the dispute over russian gas supplies, the palestinian elections and the situation in the middle east, the uncomfortable situation in iraq, the crisis over iran's nuclear programme, the unresolved status of kosovo and many others. all these events and problems have one common denominator. no european country, however large, can tackle these problems alone. in other words, to tackle these problems, we need to join forces, develop and strengthen our common foreign, security and defence policy. this is what politicians in many countries are asking for, and as we have said here, this is what the european public is asking for. the report by mr brok, which we are voting on tomorrow, mentions progress in the area of the common foreign and security policy, but it also mentions some problems, such as the lack of involvement of the european parliament in the foreign policy-making process, and i would therefore like to call on the council to follow article 21 of the treaty on european union and to consult parliament in advance at the beginning of each year on its actions and intentions, instead of simply submitting a summary report for the previous year.
ladies and gentlemen, let's stop the flow of money to palestine, where hamas is taking over, immediately. it is clearly a terrorist movement that does not recognize the state of israel, that does not want disarmament and that accepts sharia law. how will hamas use the taxpayers' money of the european union? will he burn eyes out for them, stone women or cut off their hands? and how many people will die from hamas weapons? ladies and gentlemen, let us admit that the union's lack of clarity and its ambiguous policy have played a major role in the explosive situation in the middle east. i am the czech republic, and my country was one of the first to provide arms to the new state of israel in 1948 to defend its territory. the states of the present union then clearly declared their shame for the holocaust and supported the establishment of a jewish state, but how did they behave afterwards? who did the union clearly support? israeli or palestinian terrorists? let us put an end to this double standard and make it clear that the policy of hamas, which has been indirectly supported by the union for many years, is unacceptable and will not be paid for by the citizens of the european union with their taxes.
madam president, the statistics are clear: one more hamas seat at national level means many more at district level. people trust hamas locally and we have to respect them in an intelligent, transparent and responsible way. do we have a plan to do so? we have a strategy: non-violence, disarmament and the existence of israel. in relation to non-violence: if on the one day we have a declaration denouncing violence and the next we suffer a terrorist attack, what will we do then? hamas is a resistance movement. if occupation continues, the government will not exclude violent resistance. what will we do then? in relation to the existence of the state of israel: is beginning negotiations after the israeli election enough? in relation to disarmament: do we want to include hamas militias in the palestinian security and police forces? under which conditions? do we have any plans?
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, as the lisbon strategy and mrs esteraly's report show, an integrated society is based on freedom, solidarity and equality. yet, inequality between men and women persists in many areas. i appreciate the call to reduce the gender pay gap and to apply european legislation. however, i must point out that women are not only disadvantaged in their remuneration for work but are also often victims of discrimination based on the gross insensitivity of employers towards women who are disadvantaged, for example by pregnancy. there is also a negative experience of so-called silent discrimination in the czech republic. employers often assume that a pregnant woman is weak and unwilling to fight back. the anti-discrimination law, which was supposed to protect women, has not yet been adopted in the czech republic. thus, in some countries, employees are discriminated against in an unspoken way, primarily on the basis of age, maternity, health, or disability. and that needs to change.
for the ppe-de group. this report, which i have initiated, responds to the growing problems facing the union's internal market today within the world economy. the global rules are in reality more at odds with the internal rules of the union, and we are therefore at a serious crossroads. the fate of european prosperity depends, first, on how and when we revise the regulations of our social market economy towards greater flexibility, and, second, on whether europe will have a more fundamental influence in shaping and controlling the rules of the world economy more closely to our values. high social and environmental standards are the godlike product of a european civilization that takes responsibility for the sustainable development of this planet. on the other hand, they raise production costs and thereby reduce the competitiveness of many sectors facing global pressures, especially those of asian economies that are not familiar with these standards. in third countries, natural resources are plundered, and unfair trade rules do not respect the law. working and living conditions are in conflict with basic human rights. and europe cannot just stand by and watch. the report is a dialogue on the revision of european regulation, which would not be an obstacle to competitiveness and employment, but would, on the contrary, promote the attractiveness of the european market and the growth of living standards. at the same time, the report calls for a fundamental strengthening of european foreign policy and the implementation of a trade strategy based on our values. our natural ally in this process and in the wto is the united states, with which we need to have a more intensive dialogue. the weak point in this path is the cumbersome decision-making of the institutions within the union, which could have been improved by the new constitutional treaty. in closing, i have a great deal of respect for the work of the reporter. it took account of the outcome of the public hearing and of all discussions in both committees. its report is very balanced and comprehensive and deserves the strong support of parliament.
for the group gue/ngl. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the critical point of this directive is solar radiation, but i think we should rather listen to beethoven's moon sonata. i would like to start by saying that i am of course in favour of this legislative proposal, but i am disappointed with the outcome of the conciliation procedure, and in particular with the role played by the european parliament in it. the negotiations on this draft directive, sometimes called the sunshine directive, were more like a soap opera. at the outset, experts, the european institutions, member states agreed that the osh framework should be supplemented by legislation to simplify and specify protection against optical radiation. the same was accepted in the previous period with regard to vibration noise and electromagnetic radiation. in particular, no mention was made of the very low exposure limit values for optical radiation, which are defined in the annex to the draft directive. the rapporteur has made a tremendous effort and i want to congratulate him on his compromise. however, it was his political group that began to oppose the inclusion of all natural sources of optical radiation in this directive. it seems somewhat ridiculous that the strong opposition to clearly defined rules and standards for informing and protecting workers from sun exposure came mainly from those member states where protection is at a very good level, while nothing fundamentally opposing was heard from countries such as italy where more effort is needed. simply put, the italians know that awareness and prevention of occupational diseases is cheaper for employers than the subsequent costs. the optical radiation directive would be a concrete step forward, not only to improve the protection of workers but also to simplify european legislation. the situation and the results we see today in this area are certainly not what i would understand as reducing unnecessary bureaucracy. i'm afraid we're going to have to face legal challenges in the future.
the next item is the report by vittorio agnoletto, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the human rights and democracy clause in eu agreements (2005/2057 (ini)) (a6-0004/2006).
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. it is balanced, objective and, above all, gives us a good overview not only of what has been achieved in the field of human rights but also of the important aspects we need to focus on in the future. i would like to mention a few key areas. first, i think it is right to mention that human rights cannot be understood as political and civil rights only, but it is imperative, not only in the context of achieving the un millennium development goals, to focus on economic, social and cultural rights. secondly, it is necessary to draw on the positive experience gained so far from the cotton treaty and to ensure that clauses on respect for human rights and democratic principles are inserted in all sectoral agreements or agreements with developed countries, in order to ensure equal access to all contracting partners. thirdly, it is necessary to place greater emphasis on the application of so-called positive measures, which are incentivised by the states, and to use negative measures only in cases of strict necessity where other options have been exhausted. in this context, it is undoubtedly necessary to consider the impact of the measure on the general population. in order to ensure transparency, i believe it is crucial that the european parliament and civil society are more involved in the application of the clauses relating to human rights and democratic principles. the commission and council's practice to date is not transparent, is often misleading and leaves room for considerations of the primacy of political, strategic and commercial interests over the consistent application of clearly defined standards. in order to increase transparency and democratise decision-making processes, it is imperative that the european commission informs the european parliament and the public concerned on a regular basis, preferably on an annual basis, of the application of the human and democratic rights clause, analysing the individual cases and the council's position at the time, the success of the measure and the proposed future course of action in the event of no improvement. this of course requires an objective methodology and a clear approach to the application of the above clause.
ladies and gentlemen, the development and consolidation of democracy and the rule of law and respect for human rights and freedoms have become an integral part of the functioning of the european union, both internally and externally, an integral part of the foreign policy. the human rights and democracy clause of the eu treaties is one of the instruments of this policy. the clause, as mentioned, has been incorporated into more than 50 agreements to date and covers more than 120 countries. i think that despite this often positive fact, it is also necessary to consider improving and perfecting the clause. the vittoria agnoletta report makes many important and interesting suggestions in this respect. it points out, for example, that the concept of human and civil rights and freedoms also includes economic, social and cultural rights. it stresses that the european union should also focus on implementing gender equality and women's rights policies in promoting human rights, and should also oppose any discrimination, such as that related to sexual orientation and the rights of persons with disabilities. i would also like to join the idea that the european parliament should be involved in the process of preparing the application and evaluation of the democratic clause to a much greater extent than it has been so far, and i would also like to say that civil society and the international system of human rights ngos should also be involved in this process to a much greater extent than they have been so far.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur that if we accept this material, we must somehow prevent governments from actually torpedoing it. when the six states of the european community adopted the rome treaties in 1957, it seemed that the realization of the so-called four freedoms - the free movement of goods, capital, services and persons - was a matter of the utterly unforeseeable future. the introduction of the so-called schengen system, the removal of customs barriers between the member states of the european community and the adoption of a number of rules governing relations between the countries of the region have brought this goal much closer. the question is no longer whether it will be possible to guarantee the free movement of persons between the member states of the european union in the near future, but rather to establish a very real and near future horizon for ensuring that freedom. it is appropriate to adjust at least the so-called small border contact during the transitional period. this adjustment improves the possibilities for bilateral relations between countries which are not part of the schengen system but are members of the european union or the european economic area for a transitional period. the authors of the regulation under discussion are aware that the european union is only half of europe geographically. it is in the interest of this group to ensure maximum openness to its neighbours. the regulation in question also provides for the possibility of adjusting small border crossings with non-member countries. it should be noted that as of 1 january 2007 this applies to the land borders with russia, belarus, ukraine, moldova, macedonia, serbia, albania, croatia and turkey. it is good to note that such a regulation is indeed a positive signal to neighbouring countries. it opens the door to greater cooperation in border regions, unless the measures mentioned by mr lax are taken. the introduction of specific types of visa and certain other conditions of the regulation as a whole will make it possible in the foreseeable future, after evaluation, to use this special regime to deepen cooperation with whole neighbouring states. and this is very valuable for the future development of relations, especially with major partners such as russia, ukraine and turkey. i believe that a number of amendments are aimed at improving the possibility of implementing this regulation and only a small number seek to modify this standard in a way that would be difficult to use in practice. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to distinguish carefully between the two when voting on the amendments. i would remind you that the directive in question is a model of neighbourly relations and therefore also a signal as to whether the european union wants to be an open community or whether it wants to build barriers on its borders against its neighbours.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to say that i consider the report presented to be a piece of work well done. it accurately maps the current reality of the use of renewable energy sources for heating and cooling. on the other hand, the european parliament has repeatedly stated the need for greater use of renewable resources, and has made some good decisions and recommendations, but to be honest, not much has changed. the need for renewable energy is more talked about by politicians than by the people who actually make the most decisions about it, the ordinary citizens. this is probably because member states are failing to create the right conditions for a larger share of these energies and to convince people of the benefits of renewable sources. therefore, as the report states, for example, northern denmark uses more solar energy than southern italy. the recommendation rightly places particular emphasis on informing and persuading people. but they'll also understand us when renewable resources are in their favor. the price of these energies is also important, and the creation of conditions for the use of renewable sources is linked to this. the current case from us in the czech republic is not primarily about renewable energy, but it's more specific. not only individuals, but also communities and cities have long ago accepted the challenge of a much greener heating with natural gas, thinking in comparison with the past, supported by various instruments, and have introduced gas. but now, after several significant increases in the price of gas, they are plunging back in droves to totally unfriendly fuels, such as cheap, low-grade coal and the inefficient burning of not only locally sourced wood but even plastics and tires. they're out of gas. so creating the conditions is as important as making sensible decisions and applying all the elements of the energy mix and promoting energy savings. so that we don't end up like the night butterflies in the quest for energy, who often find death in their desire to be as close to light and warmth as possible.
mr president, commissioner, when we talk about heating and cooling, we are talking about 49% of the energy consumption of our continent. i believe that any responsible energy policy must take into account the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. i firmly believe that, alongside nuclear power, which is primarily used to generate electricity, it is the use of renewable energy for heating and cooling that will lead us to a future with lower carbon emissions. the less fossil fuels are used for this purpose, the better not only in terms of global climate change, but also in terms of reducing dependence on imports from outside europe. moreover, the use of renewable resources has a mostly positive impact on the rural economy, bringing new resources and, with them, new jobs. the report, which the rapporteur is presenting after a thorough analysis and discussion, deals with the whole range of strategic measures that need to be implemented in order to overcome the barriers to greater use of renewable resources. however, from the point of view of the czech member of parliament, i have to say that after the accession to the european union, the position of renewable sources on the market has deteriorated, as the forced inclusion of e.g. briquettes and biomass pellets in the higher vat rate has led to a sharp decline of a promisingly developing market. all the new member states are in a similar situation. paradoxically, the neighbouring federal republic of germany and austria have derogations allowing these products to be included in the lower vat rate. in the czech republic, this has been reflected in the fact that almost all the production of biomass briquettes and pellets is exported to these countries. at the same time, the price of energy that could be replaced by renewable sources is rising in our domestic market, but it is precisely for price reasons that people are turning to cheaper sources, which in many cases is low-quality brown coal. i therefore believe that the call to the commission and the council to review the sixth council directive allowing the use of a lower vat rate for renewable energy sources is very urgent. we must and can do this at european level. i support the report presented, thank the rapporteur for a good piece of work and note that it is a good starting point for further action by the commission and the member states themselves.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the ongoing debate is only a confirmation of the passion that the proposed services directive is generating. both opponents and supporters of the bible have trumped arguments, some of which are easily challenged. it has already been said on several occasions that the freedom to provide services, as the only one of the four fundamental principles on which the european union's single internal market is based, is not being fulfilled in practice. this situation has been going on for a very long time, and it is only by coincidence that we are trying to change it shortly after the great enlargement of the european union, which is also one of the reasons for the emotional reactions. if the agreed changes are approved, the unionists demonstrating outside this building can be satisfied. their concerns about the export of cheap service-based labour are not being met. as a former union member, i welcome the fact that there are union members from new countries among the demonstrators. many of us ask why. the answer is because they are in solidarity with the trade unionists from the old countries and because the enlargement of the eu will continue. what seems useless to some today will seem different a year from now. the question is whether the directive that leaves this parliament will be a good one or a bad one. the question is whether the prevailing view is that, in the face of the flood of proposed amendments, the directive is so incomprehensible that it is better to reject it. if we pass the directive with the agreed changes, there will be a lot of work for the lawyers of all our countries. i think that, as in many cases in the past, the european institutions will not produce a directive that is clear and concise, a directive whose application and compliance can be easily monitored. it is not surprising that the business community is so interested in the future of the directive. the business of services, and in particular the public service, is not subject to such cyclical fluctuations as the business of manufacturing. in my view, the directive still has to remove one problematic provision which allows member states to require compliance with additional requirements justified by social policy or consumer protection. i don't want to see the customer protection that i've declared turn into a protection business. we are currently engaged in a series of controversies that have in common the old's distrust of the new. let us take the step of eliminating one of the points of contention and vote for the directive, provided that the compromises reached are valid.
ladies and gentlemen, i am absolutely in favour of the european parliament adopting the directive on services in the internal market. this includes the key article 16, which clearly states that service providers are subject only to the national provisions of their member state. i also support the commission's proposal on articles 24 and 25, which greatly facilitate the movement of workers in the european union. only a directive in this form will provide a solid basis for the completion of the single market in services. i will now quote from the first agreement of the countries of the union on economic integration. it's a declaration from messina and it's 50 years old. the statesmen then set themselves the goal of creating a common market and gradually introducing free movement of labour. i quote: 'the governments of the federal republic of germany, belgium, france, italy, luxembourg and the netherlands are convinced that the time has come to take the next step on the road to european integration.' they consider that this objective should be achieved primarily in the economic sphere. they are convinced that they must build a united europe by building common institutions, gradually linking up national economies, creating a common market and gradually harmonising social policy. i consider such a programme to be essential if europe is to maintain its position, to regain its influence and prestige in the world and to continually improve the living standards of its citizens. this is the end of a 50-year-old quote. ladies and gentlemen, i now ask my colleagues in the countries mentioned above to remain true to the objectives of their political predecessors and not to abandon the principle of economic openness. they're releasing the red-and-black genie of populism and nationalism. the genie who has brought nothing but tyranny and misery to this continent.
in the union, a pay-tv channel today said that eu workers are protesting against the services directive, forgetting to add that it is only workers in the old countries who need it, but workers in the new countries. but they are second-class eu citizens. czechs are not allowed to work freely in germany and elsewhere, just as workers from new countries are not allowed to do so. what they're all allowed to do is eat western-subsidized food and buy western goods that cross the border freely and duty-free. the key article 16, which cautiously acknowledged in the imco committee's wording that a company could use the rules of the country of origin in the provision of services, was compromised by the ppe-de and the socialists. but that's not a compromise, that's a castration of the entire directive. it does not provide any legal basis for the provider's claim, thus placing the provider in a legal uncertainty. it is only a non-binding declaration and, moreover, it unnecessarily extensively interprets the public interest by which the provider is to be limited. it confuses the whole text because paragraph 1 suggests that it should rather be the law of the country of destination, whereas paragraph 3 can be interpreted as meaning that the law of the country of origin primarily applies. if we are reluctant to expose our economies to at least internal competition within the eu, how do we want to compete with the outside world? if we do not use the presence of new dynamic developing member states to put pressure on greater labour efficiency, we are missing out on one of the greatest benefits of enlargement.
we are deciding, for a long time to come, the fate of one of the union's fundamental freedoms, which has been enshrined in european law for over 50 years. while europe is opening up to third-country economies, within its own borders, its states have built walls of barriers to the provision of services to each other. there comes a time when we either tear down these artificial walls or we solemnly demolish them to the applause of the trade unionists. the result will be a test of how the union has handled enlargement. the berlin wall fell, new states opened their markets to goods and services from all over europe. however, there are still countries in the eu where european legislation on the free movement of services is not properly applied. these states, in breach of union law and court rulings, hypocritically protect markets from competition. chirac's stupid scarecrow, the polish plumber, is making his way around france and other countries. we now have the opportunity to show which of us has the flexibility of the market and the lisbon strategy in our hearts and which of us has it in our stomachs. what the opponents base their arguments on is the question. they didn't present any study, but they've been trying to sell the unionists false ideas, led by a reporter. it is not true that the directive interferes with labour law, nor does it alter the rules governing the posting of workers or reduce their protection. on the contrary, according to all studies, it will create 600 000 new jobs, an extra 37 billion euros and anti-discrimination. the proposed enclosure of the directive and the abandonment of the country of origin principle is against the interests of everyone, including consumers, and is also an ideological clash between deregulation and further harmonisation. experience in the field of the movement of goods has shown that this route is not realistic. firstly, it will never be agreed by the states and, secondly, further regulation rather than simplification and flexibility would only further distance us from the goal of europe's success in the global economy. the directive is therefore a test of whether we prefer short-sighted national protectionism to shared european prosperity.
mr president, it is very late at night for such a serious debate and the commissioner must be tired. i should like to make just a few points which might freshen up the debate, or perhaps make you even more tired, commissioner! at the beginning of today’s debate i thought that it might be just an ideological clash between protectionism and an attempt to liberalise the market in services. i admit that i was a dreamer. unfortunately it is more serious than that: the debate over the watered-down directive is beginning to bear the hallmarks of a clash between the new and the old. we are used to listening to endless speculation about why people in the member states do not understand the brave new european ideas. why should they? i am a member of the european parliament representing the czech republic and defending the interests of the czechs. the czech republic fully liberalised access to its market in the early 1990s. many traditional but inefficient companies had to close. that resulted in a higher unemployment rate and heavy political losses. is it not fair to expect the same of the old member states? go to any czech town situated somewhere on the czech/austrian border and try to explain to a local service provider that he or she cannot provide their service in the same way as their austrian competitors – and i stress, competitors – in their czech town. i bet you will not succeed. try to talk about noble european ideals and say in the same breath that they are not allowed to run their businesses freely wherever they choose. the idea of opening the internal market was a brave one, but today’s reality is just the proverbial crying over spilled milk. i thank the czech interpreters for their valiant work.
mr. chairman, this morning, iran announced four more executions. he executed 18 people in january, 35 in december. we're talking, talking, and iran is apparently building a nuclear weapon. the united states and israel will not save us. a military solution at the cost of millions of human lives is not yet on the table. so to find a solution, we need to know the causes of iran's behavior. we are gravely mistaken if we think that iran is acting in reaction, in fear, in fear. persians are not arabs. iran ruled the middle east in ancient times, five hundred years in the middle ages. iran is convinced of its position as the major hegemonic power in the middle east. he's building a nuclear weapon to use as a means to achieve that position. its natural historical partner in this hegemony is russia. iran is a country of rapidly growing, pauperization, uneducated, isolated and radicalized masses. these masses are kept at bay by an exceptionally powerful totalitarian regime. we are not dealing with radical islam, we are dealing with a radical totalitarian regime. a totalitarian regime needs an external enemy, it needs to invade the west, it needs to disrupt radio broadcasts, it needs to execute its citizens. unlike previous totalitarian experiences, the transcendent nature of islamic ideology may allow this weapon to be used. let us encourage dialogue with those who want it and need it. but we must be clear, firm and principled in the face of totalitarian regimes. (applause) thank you very much.
ladies and gentlemen, the most used word in this morning's debate is the word dialogue. dialogue between cultures, dialogue between civilizations and i dare say also dialogue between the european union and iran. relations between the union and iran have in recent years been built on a three-pronged approach, namely trade cooperation, political dialogue and human rights dialogue. i am convinced that this approach, despite the many disappointments and failures of the past weeks and months, is still relevant, still valid. yes, it is absolutely unacceptable for the president of iran to question the existence of another state, the state of israel, it is absolutely unacceptable for iran to seek to develop nuclear weapons, and it is also unacceptable, unacceptable for iran to circumvent international law, to circumvent the decisions of international organizations. but i am convinced that the space for dialogue, the space for a diplomatic solution has not been fully exhausted. and i also believe that it is not in the interest of the citizens of iran, the iranians themselves, that their country becomes some kind of black hole for the international community. that is why i would be in favor of dialogue, as has already been said here, with the reformist forces inside iran and with the reformist forces around iran.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the gue/ngl delegation to belarus, i do not agree with the motion for a resolution, and i will explain why. from the discussions in the european parliament, it was sometimes possible to get the impression that the opposition candidate would win the elections in belarus this time, but we see that what will probably happen is that lukashenko will continue in office. what's the next step? what will our relations with belarus look like? let's consider that belarus is not just lukashenko and privileged people, but a nation that not only has a negative experience with the regime, which i do not deny, but that has certain social security, such as free education and health care. we are well aware of the close relations between belarus and moscow and how important developments in this small country are to its large neighbour. it's no secret that the two countries are preparing for a closer union than they have ever known. the european union's strategy towards belarus is therefore ultimately also a strategy towards russia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the union needs a common strategy on forestry. i fully support the principles on which this strategy is based, in particular the recognition of the multifunctional nature of the forest and its importance for the economy, quality of life, environmental protection and the conservation of biodiversity. as a member of the itre committee, i also appreciate that the report, for which i thank the rapporteur, calls for the promotion of wood-based biomass production. the report shows in many places that forestry needs to be seen in the context of other common policies, such as environmental protection or energy. but for the strategy to be effective, it must also be consistent with the european union's financial instruments. in this context, let me comment on the fact that the current rules on union financial support practically exclude forests owned by the state or by a state-owned enterprise. it can only apply for a grant in exceptional circumstances, such as a natural calamity, but not in normal circumstances, such as investments and the like. this is particularly important for countries such as the czech republic or poland, where more than 50% of forest land is managed by the state. i appreciate that the report states in this context that union support should not depend on the form of forest ownership. is it not the same forest, whether owned by a private individual, a state or a municipality? does its meaning change depending on the form of ownership? the principle that all forms of property are equal and enjoy the same legal protection should also apply in european law. i hope that this report will help to highlight the importance of forestry in the union and will encourage the commission and the council to pay greater attention to this issue. it could start, for example, with the establishment of a working group, a platform, to exchange experience and coordinate national strategies. it is necessary to create a situation where national forestry experts have a qualified partner to discuss with in the union institutions.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. in the european union of 25 members, rural regions account for 92% of the territory. these regions generate 45% of gross value added and 53% of jobs. but they are lagging behind in socioeconomic indicators. there is about a third lower per capita income, the service sector is less developed, and higher education levels are generally less represented. between 2007 and 2013, we need to focus on investing in the future, and that's investing in people. know how, new ways of delivering environmentally beneficial services to the public, and creating and increasing better jobs. it is necessary to focus on removing barriers to access to the labour market for those who are currently disadvantaged on the grounds of gender, age or disability. diversification of economic activities, protection of rural cultural heritage and investment in local service infrastructure are prerequisites for improving the quality of life in rural areas. they are also a tool to reverse the depopulation of these areas. it is essential to present the european union's rural areas as attractive places for people to invest, work and live. they offer significant potential for development in the areas of tourism, housing and employment. the new programming period is a unique opportunity to refocus support from the new rural development fund on economic growth, employment and sustainability. to achieve these objectives, we must have financial instruments in place in sufficient quantities. it is already clear that the funding under axis 3 for improving the quality of life in rural areas and diversifying rural areas is insufficient. thank you for your work, madam correspondent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. bosnia and herzegovina is the territory where the longest separation of people on religious grounds has taken place for those who have tried to eliminate multiethnic coexistence in the balkans. i stress that this is not a question of relations between nations, but of relations between people who profess the orthodox faith of islam and the catholic faith. the jewish population was forced to flee the country at the beginning of the conflict and never became a combatant. moreover, the country's specificity was that the majority of the orthodox population historically lived in the countryside, while the majority of muslims lived in the cities. let us bear this fact in mind when designing the european union's aid programme. i therefore welcome paragraph 16 of the proposal, which calls for more attention to be paid to the specific needs of rural areas. at the same time, it is high time to urge the hague tribunal to begin prosecuting war criminals of other than orthodox faiths. in the hungarian language used here, it's serbs. it is also necessary to recognize that this parliament has not always been fair in its conclusions. this is evidenced by certain passages in the resolutions adopted here, for example on the tenth anniversary of the events at srebrenica, which, contrary to established facts, consider one side of the conflict to be solely responsible for the mass murders. i am glad that the dictatorial methods used by the previous administrators of the country are now a thing of the past. another positive development is the efforts to promote economic development, including through the agreement of the western balkan countries on the return of refugees and the reparation of property damage. that is why we voted in favour of the resolution, despite reservations about the wording of certain parts of it.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the resolution on guantanamo is being discussed in this house with full justification. it must be admitted that a similar resolution would deserve to be recalled on 27 january. as you know, today is the international day for the prevention of crimes against humanity. we can certainly agree that a state which, by presidential decree, tortures prisoners in prisons such as abu ghraib and guantanamo, has no right to demand cooperation from the european union in unilaterally launched military actions. it's time to impose sanctions on the united states for its human rights record. we voted against this in general this week when we approved the report on the human rights and democracy clause in the european union's agreements. or do you not remember? or is the argument of military force too strong a counter-argument? that's hypocrisy, of course. i believe that the adoption of the resolution, which i fully support, should be followed by a proposal to punish those who are involved in human rights violations in guantanamo and abu ghraib in violation of united states law. it is also contrary to international conventions, and that is why i propose that the european commission prepare a draft for an international criminal tribunal to investigate these crimes. it is also necessary to recommend to the presidency of the european union to propose a resolution in the un security council calling for the imposition of sanctions against the united states. by the way, we all know that the us base at guantanamo bay has been occupied for many years against the will of the legitimate government of the republic of cuba.
mr president, i would like to commend the european commission for the action it took last week, the publication of the green paper on energy. i think this documentary comes at the right time. europe is becoming more and more dependent on imports, and it appears that we will have to tackle energy problems together. we will have to complete the liberalisation of the internal market, for example, and we will also have to work together on energy saving and the development of alternative sources, including nuclear energy. we will also have to work together to ensure the security of energy imports. as i said, i very much appreciate this green paper, and i think it should be a starting point for discussion. the end of this debate should be the creation of a genuine common energy policy in europe.
mr president, i do not want european union citizens' money to finance the development of companies that move outside the union, nor the development of companies that do not respect the existing rules of the game. however, i reject the report in principle, because i consider it to be a profound misunderstanding of the global economy to impose on companies a seven-year freezing cycle during which they cannot relocate their activities. i also do not understand why a company within the european union should not have the chance to move to another territory with impunity when state aid in individual member states competes with each other. the freezing of business will not save long-term jobs, but will only add to the already rigid system of employment and high taxes by creating more immobility, creating another unnecessary office, and developing a nonsensical strategy to combat relocation. the european parliament has already said that it will not be able to vote on the amendments. capital will always go where it is best valued, and it will certainly not follow the guidelines of this parliament or the european commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the reason for dealing with the problem of relocation is the obvious desire to balance the operation of the internal market rules with the promotion of social cohesion policy and the balancing of european regions. but let me say that we would not have to deal with this problem if all the principles of the european union were respected, that is to say both the free movement of services and the free movement of labour. the fact that today, in principle, only the movement of goods and capital is allowed more or less only offers the transfer of production where the costs are lower. it can be agreed that regional aid must not be contrary to the rules of the internal market and that european regional policy must not encourage the relocation of undertakings. but this is where the european union's interference in the functioning of european economies should end. what cannot be agreed is the protection of inflexible businesses and employees. in my view, the restriction of the movement of companies is contrary to the free movement as a fundamental freedom of the european community. i fundamentally disagree with mrs schroedter and i believe that the five-year period for maintaining activity supported by the structural funds is long enough and there is no reason to extend it. this period should be linked to the purpose of the investment for which the funds were granted and should not exceed the actual lifetime of the project and its impact. after all, you can't stop entrepreneurs from moving to places where they have a cheaper and more educated and perhaps better-quality workforce. nor can national governments be restricted in their efforts to attract foreign investment. nor can it be prescribed to the national states how high direct taxes they are to collect. ladies and gentlemen, if we were to repress this trend, it would lead to a loss of comfort and dynamism in the european union's economy. this is a free market and with more regulation of business relocation, the market principle as such would disappear. as the only real threat to relocation, i think we should address the relocation of businesses outside the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to criticise the report on relocation in the context of regional development. the phenomenon of business relocation or delocalisation has been a feature of europe's history, is happening now and will certainly continue in the future. people and companies simply look for the best possible space to implement their ideas, services and products, and that's the way it was, is and will be, and there's nothing wrong with that. on the contrary, it is a manifestation of the rational behaviour that is the basis of european civilization. fighting against economic rationality is the way to europe's impoverishment. the european union was built from the outset as a free area for the free movement of people, goods, services and capital, and thus also as a free area for european businesses. thanks to this policy of liberalization, western european countries have achieved very high living standards. not because they were protecting their markets, but because they were opening them up. the report proposed a policy of the opposite, a policy of building new barriers to capital movements, and i cannot agree with that in any way. the problem of european subsidies versus free movement of capital within the eu does exist. but the solution is not to tighten the conditions for granting subsidies to firms and to tie subsidies to the place where the firm is already operating. instead, we need a complete abolition of european subsidies for companies. these subsidies have no economic justification and only distort the european market. if the european commission feels that so-called relocation is a problem, it should focus much more on improving the conditions for business and firms to operate. it should consider whether eu firms are not pushing their excessive regulatory activity into the world. in my judgment, it certainly is now. the european legislative burden is too great and should be reduced as quickly as possible. then we will look at the flow of companies into the eu and the growth of employment in the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me explain why i voted against this report. it was a report that is redundant, unbalanced and not based on any real results, only assumptions that are not supported by facts. the extension of the protection period from five to seven years is unacceptable and contrary to the fundamental freedoms of free movement. if we continue to regulate further, instead of opening up the business environment and the labour and services markets, we will not be supporting the development of the european union's economy, but on the contrary we will be stagnating it further.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few remarks in explanation of the vote against the report by mr paasilinna on the european information society for growth and employment. one of the objectives of the 2010 project is innovation and investment in research. i was surprised to find that the report presented did not deal with the research problem very much, it did not deal with the research as it deserved. research appears only in the context of the support for research into the technologies themselves. on the other hand, research in all fields of human activity creates demands on information and communication technologies. it is this aspect of feedback that i am missing in the report, and it should be one of the engines of economic growth and job creation in the lisbon strategy. the mere mention of the seventh framework programme is not proportionate to the importance of this programme for growth and employment. the ability to work with digital technologies is now considered to be one of the key competences and needs to be developed within the framework of lifelong learning.
the next item is the report by mrs edit bauer, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on social protection and social inclusion (2005/2097 (ini)) (a6-0028/2006).
drafting committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i highly appreciate the report by mrs bauer, which we discussed and supported in the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. the report emphasises these objectives from the perspective of gender equality and highlights the needs of women, particularly in the area of social inclusion. but i would like to focus not only on women, but also on the ways in which poverty and social exclusion affect children and young people. consider how our relationship to poverty has changed from the past in developed countries, in an environment of glittering wealth and prosperity, lower living standards have come to be seen as something degrading. i dare say it's seen as a degrading and abnormal condition that's caused by the individual. what i mean by this is that the media and advertising suggest a picture of prevailing well-being, in which the person who does not achieve it suffers a sense of inadequacy. success and material abundance seem to be open to all, so that those who do not achieve them are excluded from the benefits society provides. this exclusion is not just about material things, but also about education, health or a secure old age, and it's passed down from generation to generation. children from disadvantaged backgrounds in particular have difficulty accessing higher education, travel less, and live in less suitable housing. of course, this poverty is not as drastic as in the third world, but even it, often shamefully hidden and not statistically recorded, leads to a feeling of exclusion from the normal world, to the knowledge that something normal and standard is not available. why is that? how to explain to children that they, unlike others, must give up this or that. it is true that social differences have always existed and have determined the development of a child throughout his life. but never before has abundance been so naturally considered the norm, and never before has lack of funds been so obviously excluded from so many possibilities as it is today. this is the paradox of a developed society. a decent standard of living is more democratic than before, but worse for those who, for various reasons, cannot achieve it. i would point out that this is not just a matter of material consequences, but that the lack of social protection, especially for children and young people, has moral consequences and is dangerous for the future of society, because social injustice leads to tensions that, as we see everywhere, are displaced by violence or lead to escapism from reality through drugs or cheap entertainment. i'm not underestimating the charitable means, but it's social protection and social inclusion that must be built into the system and the person must have the right to use it. charity is charity, and in a modern society that protects human dignity, this is the ultimate solution, which cannot replace a quality social policy that meets the needs of the european union in the 21st century.
i think that the debate on social protection and social inclusion is extremely topical today, although the relative poverty rate fell by 3% between 1995 and 2000, the 15% rate is undoubtedly alarming. i am afraid that, given these figures and the current state of affairs, we will not be able to eradicate poverty and its associated social exclusion by 2010. these phenomena are the result of structural changes that accompany the social and economic development of our society. these are changes in the labour market, technological changes in society, demographic changes, ethnic diversity, changes in household structure and redefinition of the roles of men and women. aid must therefore be directed in particular at the most vulnerable groups, the unemployed, single-parent households, lone and elderly persons, families with multiple dependants, ethnic minorities or disabled persons. the fact that poverty often affects children is something that i find very sad and alarming. among the key policy priorities for tackling poverty and social exclusion, i would highlight the area of education. these are ensuring its adequate level, smooth transition between education and employment, integration of disadvantaged groups into the education system using e-learning. education is not just school attendance but a comprehensive system of lifelong learning. however, funding is needed to meet this and other priorities. the new member states in particular are not making sufficient use of the european social fund, the financial instrument for this area. i therefore call on the new member states, and in particular the czech republic, to simplify the 2007-2013 programming documents currently being drawn up and the bureaucratic burden on applicants as much as possible. in conclusion, i would like to thank mrs bauer for her excellent report.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11:30.
the next item is the report by mr louis grech, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the guidelines for sections ii, iv, v, vi, vii, viii (a) and viii (b) and the preliminary draft budget of the european parliament (section i) for the 2007 budgetary procedure. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013) (com (2007) 0263 final).
the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec, euratom) no 1605/2002 on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities (com(2005)0181 – c6-0234/2005 – 2005/0090(cns)) (a6-0057/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by seán ó neachtain, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on more environmentally friendly fishing methods (2004/2199(ini)) (a6-0019/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to mention today two aspects which i see as very important in achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy, namely growth and employment. the first aspect is the completion of the single internal market. it turns out that the conceptual concept of the four freedoms on which the european union is based is unfortunately still often only on paper. we took a very important step here last month in the first reading when we passed the services directive. i am convinced that this is a step in the right direction, but i would like to mention the free movement of persons. the european commission report mentioned above stresses that labour mobility is still insufficient, not only between the new and old member states but also within the 'old' european union. and it is this mobility that is the basis of economic growth. the second aspect is the approval of the financial perspective. ladies and gentlemen, if we do not have a financial perspective this semester, europe is in danger of a crisis. an economic crisis, a political crisis and i fear a crisis of confidence. i would therefore like to call on all three components to work hard on this issue and by the end of june, that is, by the end of the austrian presidency, the financial perspective will be, as they say, 'under the roof'.
mr president, madam commissioner, although i would have welcomed this debate a little earlier and today it may be a little late, we all have a great, certain, new hope and of course we all welcome the creation of a new council. first of all, we congratulate the swedish president of the general assembly, not only for what he was able to negotiate among the un member states, but especially for the way he was able to involve the non-profit organizations, the non-governmental sector, which helped him a lot today. of course, we welcome the extended lobbying period in geneva. we hope that the spring that has been coming in recent weeks in transatlantic relations will not be spoiled and that the current vote today will be overcome. i think it's important that the european union has spoken and has a clear and unified position that it shares with the whole developed world. either way, developing countries will have the majority. despite all that we're all talking about, the clash of civilizations, it's clear that this new council must fully respect the principle of the universality of human rights, one standard for every woman, one standard for every man. the council will be playing a very important role in this respect (pre-review). in this respect too, the instrument of exclusion is very important, even if it requires a two-thirds vote, and i think it creates a new space for european foreign policy, it creates a new space for us to really address what is the consequence of the dysfunction of some states, and therefore the violation of the rights of every man and every woman. commissioner, i wish us and especially you great courage in taking clear steps towards universal human rights throughout the world.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, commissioner, with regard to the proposal for a council regulation on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs, i would like to emphasize the sentence appearing in the report by the rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf. that intellectual property is the last resource of europeans. it is for this reason that it is both surprising and regrettable that there is still no comprehensive approach to the development of the intellectual property system as such. the new regulation should finally put an end to the ongoing disputes between the eu and some of its trading partners on wto grounds. it is to be hoped that once this matter is settled, the commission will return to the issue of geographical indications and designations of origin with purely conceptual intentions. i would also like to recall that, according to the world intellectual property organisation, designations of origin and geographical indications are an integral part of intellectual property. under the rules of procedure of the european parliament, intellectual property matters fall clearly and exclusively within the remit of the committee on legal affairs. it is therefore both procedural and material that the committee on agriculture was asked to draw up the report without the legal affairs committee even commenting on the report of the committee on agriculture.
i very much appreciate the work that the rapporteur and ipp member, mr trakatellis, has done in preparing this report, in which the ep has its important voice. the public and healthcare professionals will also appreciate the new action plan we're discussing. but above all, it is the place where health policy makers and managers will find a way for society to tackle problems that transcend national borders. the report gives the green light to a modern strategy, in particular the coordination of activities, but unfortunately it is no longer accompanied by adequate financial support from european sources after the council made a fundamental change to the union budget. the union faces major challenges, especially those that individual countries cannot tackle alone. the fight against serious communicable diseases, such as aids and influenza, is the first priority, but so is the fight against the spread of drug addiction and the diseases of civilization. this justifies the establishment of a european centre for disease prevention and control linked to the national reference laboratories. the budget cuts are not good news and point to gaps in the priorities of the political leaders of the 25 and some members. i want to highlight another problem here: modern medicine allows for a high quality of life and a prolongation of life, but all this costs more and more money, 60 to 90 percent of public finances. the higher the share of society in financing health services, the less individual citizens are responsible for their own health. similarly, the more the state regulates, the less the individual's personal responsibility is legally required. this is demonstrated by the experience of countries that have gone through a period of centrally managed and fully regulated healthcare, where decisions were made about patients' health without their influence on decisions about prevention and treatment, and therefore the cost of care. even if some reforms have been made, the old ways of thinking and behaving of patients, doctors and politicians are very persistent and cause a less efficient system and higher costs. i therefore call for programmes that should promote the awareness of healthcare clients and also the compatibility of the system not to be curtailed in any way. because these funds will be returned in multiples. but i am also concerned about the effectiveness of some of the regulations that we are taking lightly because they appear to be a major contribution to protecting health and the environment. i'm afraid that sometimes it's just a benefit to certain industrial lobbies and that the cost is not commensurate with the benefit to the health of the citizens. so here too, i am calling on the commission to devote more of its capacity to evidence-based system analysis, to make our regulatory decision-making more responsible, to know both the real public health impact and the economic burden, and thus the impact on the european economy. that is also why i support amendment no 64.
i would like to point out to my honourable colleagues - some of whom are from austria - who are now calling for us to deal urgently with the situation in belarus, that it was the european union that imposed sanctions on the republic of austria some time ago, and if our commissioner ferrero-waldner is calling for pressure on belarus, it was she who sat in the government of chancellor schüssela, which faced the sanctions of the european union. consider steps you are taking now so that you will not have to embarrassingly cross them over a period of time.
ladies and gentlemen, i shall concentrate my remarks today on some of the european priorities for 2007 in the context of an enlarged europe. the enlargement of the union in 2004 is already a great success for europe, a political, security, economic and social success. and i believe that 2007 should be a continuation of that success. in 2007, the first new member states will join the euro area. in this context, i would like to call on the european commission to actively assist these countries in their preparations for adopting the euro and to actively and rigorously monitor the fulfilment of the entry requirements, the so-called maastricht criteria. i am convinced that meeting the criteria, whether those of the maastricht treaty or those of the stability and growth pact, is essential to maintaining the political, financial and social credibility of the single european currency. the schengen area will also be extended in 2007 to include new member states from central and eastern europe. the abolition of controls at the internal borders of the member states, the granting of genuine freedom of movement within the union, should in no way mean granting freedom of movement to all kinds of crime, criminality, illegal migration and the like. the fight against crime, crime and violence in europe, together with the introduction of the second generation schengen system, should therefore, in my view, be among the clear and concrete priorities of the european union for 2007. finally, 2007 should be the year of the next enlargement of the union, with romania and bulgaria. and in this context too, i would like to call on the european commission to help these two countries prepare for accession, but also to strictly monitor the fulfilment of the conditions of accession. romania and bulgaria must be prepared for accession as well and as well as the ten countries in 2004. i think this is very important for the credibility and future of further enlargement and for the acceptance of this process by the european public.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12:00.
the next item is the report by alain lipietz, on behalf of the economic and monetary committee, on the commission's report on competition policy in 2004 (2005/2209 ((ini)) (a6-0065/2006).
the reports we are discussing today finally give a clear picture of the dismal state of the european union's economy and give the right names to its causes: poor regulation, insufficient structural and social reforms, little flexibility in the economy. then there's the lack of business dynamism, weak labour markets, low productivity growth, lack of investment, lack of innovation, poor education systems. we call for the promotion of entrepreneurship, the reduction of labour costs and the improvement of the quality of mathematics and science education. the description is very perfect, but very hypocritical. when this parliament could have taken a concrete step for productivity, flexibility and entrepreneurship and actually - not just formally - liberalised the services market, it cowardly backed away from the demonstrators in the adjacent square. i fear that today's news will be of no use if national governments, which should be taking unpleasant facts into account and introducing uncomfortable measures to life, behave as populist and hypocritical as this parliament.
ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my sincere thanks to mrs kovács for her report. the rapporteur has taken account of a fundamental employment issue which is currently often neglected in an age of economic growth obsession, namely equal opportunities for women and men, access to employment for young and older people, health protection at work and the free movement of workers across the union. from my experience in the czech republic, but also from interviews with my colleagues and also in relation to the current situation in france, for example, i know that the first job of graduates is one of the most frequently problematic areas. i believe that, although there are efforts to find solutions on the part of the european commission, their effect is still lacking, partly because of the inconsistency in the application of the recommendations and regulations of the european commission by the member states, as mentioned by the rapporteur. along with some discrimination against older people in the labour market, this is the area that should receive our greatest attention. equal opportunities for women and men in the labour market is undoubtedly an area that must be taken into account. we know from statistics that although women are an increasing segment of society, their share of employment is not matching this trend. but what's even more striking is the proportion of women in leadership positions. it is necessary to call on all member states to apply their anti-discrimination laws consistently and without delay in order to reverse this trend.
for the pse group. mr president, as has been said, 2006 has been declared the european year of labour mobility. the draft parliament resolution was prepared on the initiative of the committee on employment and social affairs and adopted by an overwhelming majority on 21 march. the report was prepared in a manner that is particularly appreciated by my colleague csaba őri. the key point of this resolution is the call to abolish the current transitional measures. immediately afterwards, amendments were tabled to remove any message from parliament. it is significant that each of the speakers begins with the words: 'i am for the free movement of workers, but ...' i therefore think that parliament should approve the text as approved by the employment committee. i would remind you that both the employers' associations and the european trade union confederation are calling for the immediate abolition of the transitional measures. i am aware that some governments will not do so, and those who have done so deserve our thanks. as regards the complaints we have heard today about the poor state of the european union, i would like to say that neither the american road nor the chinese road is a model for us, and that after the great asian crisis a few years ago, many of the countries there are thinking of building what some of those present are trying to dismantle. so it would be very appropriate for us to realize that the path to prosperity is not through chinese wages or industrial relations in the united states.
ladies and gentlemen, i am aware that the new approach to european regulation requires a change of mindset, perhaps even of contract. but if we want to maintain citizens' confidence in the eu market, we must stop the outflow of investment and the loss of jobs. to do this, we must not only reduce and simplify legislation, but i believe we must also examine the original objectives of both european and national regulation. and that is a serious political challenge. it is also up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to insist that every measure, whether to protect health or the environment, be accompanied by an impact assessment. this is also what mrs mccarthy has asked for in her report to the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i would add that it must be clear what the costs will be for european producers, how much public budgets will be increased or reduced and how unemployment in our regions will be affected. in particular, we should know in advance how the rules on raising standards will affect the competitiveness of european manufacturing vis-à-vis third countries, so that the main consequence is not further relocation of factories and capital away from europe. better regulation also means that we will seriously examine, in the context of costs, whether the new measure can really improve the health or social status of citizens or whether it is just an unfounded assumption. as a doctor and a politician, i am disgusted to see how many european and national regulations are just populist gestures. on the other hand, i lack a clear concept for protecting consumers from defective or counterfeit products from third countries, which are displacing quality european goods. an example is a child's footwear from asia that is orthopedically defective. the only solution here is a new mandatory health certification for children's shoes. this is better regulation for the citizens. i regret that the commission is so hesitant about codifying consumer protection and intellectual property protection. never before has the quality of european regulation been so important as today, when the union is facing serious competition from third countries. the policy objectives of today's regulation are to protect fair competition and european consumers not only inside but also outside europe and to motivate citizens to be creative and to free them from ineffective regulation.
mr commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the distance of citizens from the institutions and bodies of the european union, the lack of identification with the process of european integration, but also the lack of involvement of citizens in the debate on the scope of further enlargement, pose a considerable problem for the european union as a whole. this was most clearly seen in the ratification referendums on the european constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands. but in other countries too, including those that have been members since may 2004, the information deficit is negative. the positive phenomenon is people's interest in information, but also their involvement in assets that are understandable and meaningful. the citizens for europe programme we are discussing today is a tool that can meet these requirements. some of the activities listed in the report are already proving to be useful and are being used intensively. a positive example is the twinning programme, which can be attended by any community, regardless of its size. the programme is particularly friendly to small municipalities, it is very easy to get funding, and there is no unnecessary bureaucratic barrier. the minimum grant for e.g. the citizens' meeting of the partner municipalities is set very low, so that if there is interest, financial participation is not so difficult. twinning partnerships between cities, citizen cooperation on european issues or support for civil society organisations should reinforce common european values while respecting national and regional diversity. member states must complement these activities with their cultural and educational activities. the emphasis on combating racism, xenophobia and intolerance, and the promotion of multiculturalism and multilingualism should be our common interest and priority. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and for his helpful cooperation in the committee on culture and education.
mr president, i have read in detail the conclusions of the march european council and i must say that i am very disappointed. the conclusions are all superficial and mostly hypocritical. in these, the european council recognises the crucial importance of creating a more favourable business environment, highlights smes as the backbone of the european economy and speaks of the need to support them and encourage citizens to be entrepreneurs, but unfortunately only on paper. the european council has missed a unique opportunity to move from words to action. i expected politicians to find the courage to support the commission's original proposal on services in the internal market, in particular the country of origin principle, and thus give the council a clear signal that it is serious about developing the business environment. that's not what happened. the council has bowed to this parliament's crafty and populist proposal and has done nothing but talk for smes. i do not think that this is the way to achieve the lisbon strategy and to increase competitiveness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since not only the commission communication com 2006 on the functioning of transitional measures shows that the influx of workers from the eu-10 countries to the countries that have opened their labour market has not been massive, but on the contrary, according to the expert reports available, has had a positive effect on increasing production and improving the economy, and since transitional periods contribute significantly to the increase in illegal work, i consider the approval of the csaba őry report to be a significant incentive that should contribute to the labour market in the european union being fully opened by all countries. only in this way can the freedoms enshrined in the treaty on european union be fully realised and the european union as a whole be given a boost to its economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the four freedoms of europe - the free movement of goods, services, capital and, above all, people - have always been among the things that people in the european union have valued most. it is therefore incomprehensible, unfair and discriminatory that people from the eight new member states, including the czech republic, still do not have the same rights and obligations in this respect as citizens of other eu countries. the reasons for restricting this fundamental european freedom are completely absurd and meaningless. the examples of britain, sweden and ireland show that labour markets are not in danger of problems. i am pleased that other countries are joining the process of opening up their labour markets, and i hope that others will do so as soon as possible. we need a union where citizens have equal rights and equal obligations, not a union where some are equal and some are more equal than the animals in orwell's farm. that's why i voted for csaba őry's report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have joined the other members of the civic democratic party in supporting mr őry's report on the free movement of workers. we fully respect the right of individual member state governments to decide on temporary restrictions on the free movement of workers under the accession treaty. we respect the decision of the united kingdom, ireland and sweden not to exercise this right and welcome the decision of the governments of finland, spain, the netherlands and portugal to end these restrictions. we are convinced that there are no substantive reasons to restrict the free movement of workers within the european union. the political reasons for restricting this freedom of movement are as strong in the old member states as the freedom of movement of workers is in the new member states. that is why we supported the call for all governments to lift restrictions on the movement of workers within the european union.
it's funny, but until the discovery of oil in southern sudan, there was not much talk about darfur. farmers were plowing their fields, shepherds were tending their flocks. clearly, the darfur region has a special attraction for some. the quest for the secession of potentially rich lands is nothing new in africa. consider biafra, katanga, and other troubled parts of the resource-rich continent. where there is no such wealth, there are no such huge problems. after all, we're sure to find not only russian and chinese weapons in the area, but other weapons at the foreign legion bases in chad. the interesting thing is that we are concerned that the un secretary general has not been allowed into darfur. in a similar action in eritrea, this parliament even approved humanitarian aid to the government. why should our resolution not now, in accordance with paragraph 7, call on the european union, the united states and others to help bring an end to the situation in eritrea as well? the regime in sudan is certainly not a model of democracy. still, it is desirable not to succumb to the urge to resolve the situation by force. i agree with these reservations to the resolution.
the humanitarian catastrophe in iraq is the result of the aggression of the united states and the "coalition of the willing". if anyone doesn't know which countries they are, they are the united kingdom and poland in the first place. and several other countries, whose representatives have trained iraqi police, among others. on this occasion, they were no doubt particularly encouraged to observe international standards for the treatment of prisoners. they have certainly been instructed, pursuant to paragraph 9 of part b of this resolution, on how to effectively challenge the judgment. i do not believe that they would not discuss the other procedures to which the motion for a resolution rightly refers. unfortunately, i haven't seen any police officers protesting the detention or the treatment of minorities in iraq. it is therefore necessary for us to be clear on these issues and to adopt this motion for a resolution, including the amended version. it is therefore necessary that the criteria mentioned in the resolution serve as a basis of orientation in the further negotiations on aid to the present occupying power and puppet government. i support the resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 20 years later, we are still remembering the horrors of the chernobyl disaster. we see again the burning gall bladder of nuclear power plants, we see again the thousands of wasted human lives, we see again children hit by mega doses of radiation. and it is appalling to read the statistics on how many people die prematurely from chernobyl's effects to this day. twenty years ago, i was two months pregnant. my country, then the czechoslovak socialist republic, was not spared from nuclear radiation. i do not wish anyone to go through pregnancy in a harrowing, unrelenting fear of whether the baby will be born healthy or whether it will fall victim to human error, propaganda lies and the arrogance of the regime. i am glad that the european union is spending 100 million euros to help to repair the damage caused by the nuclear disaster, and i believe that it is in the interests of all the citizens of the european union to contribute to the construction of a new safe sarcophagus above the chernobyl power station and to the gradual return to normalcy of life in the chernobyl area, as far as possible. i go to ukraine, and i know that people around chernobyl are trying to do that. ladies and gentlemen, despite all the horror and anxiety that the name chernobyl still evokes, i think we must admit frankly that the european union cannot do without nuclear energy. i know, as do you, that more than half the citizens of the union are strongly opposed to the construction of new nuclear reactors, but i know, as do you, that in russia, china, india and the united states, nuclear power is already green. i am also very concerned that the price of natural gas has doubled in the last four years and that the european union has become hostage to russia's gazprom, which has recently shown clearly what it is capable of, aware of its raw material strengths. ladies and gentlemen, let us be realistic and admit that the majority of the citizens of the european union will not be drawing energy from biomass and wind farms, but all citizens will want to light, heat, produce, want to live, simply want to consume. i am convinced that nuclear energy is essential to the european union's ability to maintain both its economic performance and its social standard. and here it is necessary to tell the citizens openly that without new, modern and, if possible, extremely safe nuclear reactors, this cannot be done. i believe that asian and american competitors who are betting on the use of nuclear energy cannot compete with greenpeace happening or windmills. i hope that not only the european commission, which already knows this, will be aware of this, but also germany, which wants to phase out nuclear reactors within 15 years, even though it calls itself the industrial engine of europe and the bearer of progress. for those of you who are against nuclear power, i have a little pearl here and the latest euronews report to finish. a few moments ago, experts at euronews confirmed that nuclear energy is the best solution to limit global warming.
this debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the suspension of aid to the palestinian authority.
mr president, thank god our political group is fully united in one clear position: full support for the commission and council decisions. allow me to use this opportunity to thank the commission very much for consulting us and cooperating with us almost every day in this very particular situation. we fully support the quartet and the roadmap – the quartet because of russia. we have to make one thing very clear: this is not the consequence of fully democratic elections, but a failure of the palestinian partner to recognise a legal base for mutual financing to recognise the oslo, paris and cairo agreements and, of course, to recognise the state of israel. we have to be here with humanitarian aid and here i support the position of our group. our european aid should be visible and i deeply doubt that the united nations relief and works agency is actually a good thing to bring european visibility. we have to try to find another tool. financial supervision and international control mechanisms are of paramount importance, and here we will follow your intention and we will support you. we know that eur 165 million has already been paid to palestinians, so we have not stopped helping, we are there, and i think the commission should be more vocal about the fact that we have paid the money to support the emergence of a viable palestinian state. where are we now? we are in a position in which the muslim brotherhood pilot project hamas has to turn to iran to beg for money, making saudis and egyptians furious. this is a great success, because it leads to deep cleavage within hamas and we are already weakening hamas. however, we need to strengthen palestinian liberals, we need a european initiative for democracy and human rights, and an international financial human rights tool to help the palestinians strengthen moderate, liberal political parties.
ladies and gentlemen, whenever i hear news of the situation before elections in a developing country, i say to myself: this could not happen in europe. especially in the european union, we have democratic values, we have a civilised campaign, there are no physical attacks. but that is no longer true. in the czech republic, five weeks before the elections, the vice-chairman of a political party that has a polling preference of almost 20% was attacked and brutally beaten by three attackers. he is the current member of the national parliament, jiří dolejš. let's talk about the immunity of the deputies. the house of representatives, in its resolution today, condemned the fascist tendencies in society. ladies and gentlemen, if this is to become the rule in the eu, i urge you to do something about it. thank you for your solidarity.
for the group gue/ngl the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. obviously, the pathways to reducing deaths and the long-term effects of injuries can be varied. as my colleague has already said, it is about road quality, the safety of car construction, the clarification of traffic regulations and the increase of enforcement. measures to increase the chance of timely intervention by the emergency services after an accident include reducing the time between the accident and the receipt of the accident report, including the precise location of the accident site. it is very encouraging that in addition to the seven countries that have declared their readiness to introduce the system, four other countries have started the adoption process. our resolution calls on the other 14 countries to join in, and i believe that it will not be long before the whole european economic area, not just the european union countries, will take up this initiative. the timing of the initiative is to follow the launch of the galileo satellite navigation system. it should be fully operational in 2010. it is therefore appropriate that ecall should also be operational until then. another prerequisite for the system to really take off is the fundamental progress in the use of the 112 emergency number, as the commissioner rightly emphasised. as each new installation has its own non-zero cost, it is a logical requirement that the installation be cheap and reliable to use. if the call for consideration of the use of 'ecall' is received by insurance companies, there is another incentive to contribute to the rapid implementation of the initiative. it is true that the introduction of ecall is not without its challenges. the proposed resolution calls for an expedited solution so that the whole system can be launched in the target year 2009. ladies and gentlemen, it is not often that the representatives of virtually all the political groups express their clear agreement with the report. we're witnessing that today. if you are serious about reducing the number of road fatalities, i urge you to support the motion.
mr president, mr titley's report is the right step to improve road safety. the 'ecall' system, which will save lives on european roads and reduce the severity of injuries, will have a clear positive benefit-cost ratio. the increasing dynamics of road transport needs to be addressed by strengthening passive and active road safety. as part of the world-renowned 'esafety' initiative, 'ecall' is a priority item and part of a programme that includes advanced driving assistance, lane departure warning and accident mitigation systems. the deployment of galileo is another use of this cutting-edge technology for the benefit of european transport. the ecall system will serve the hundreds of millions of citizens who travel abroad by car every year. for these reasons, i supported the report on making ecall available to citizens.
commissioner, let me begin with a short quotation from a letter i received recently from a company which employs more than 100 people: ‘with great concern we are following the debate on the claims regulation’. the regulation on our desk today will make enterprise more complicated and will increase costs for consumers. companies will increase prices and the increased prices will harm consumers, consumers whose needs and interests we mention whenever and wherever we can. i think it is common sense to let companies look for their competitive advantages by themselves and let consumers make a choice. i want to stress that we do not take into account individual choice and individual responsibility. people are fat and people are inactive. some people are becoming fat and some are getting slimmer. how easy it would be to blame companies, producers, retail chains and governments for being fat. i am strongly against the second reading proposal on our desks. it harms enterprise, it increases prices for consumers and it ignores common sense. our lives are in our hands and there are no entitlements without meeting obligations and individual responsibility first.
ladies and gentlemen, i too have serious reservations about the commission's proposal. its administrative and financial costs will not favour competition and will increase prices for consumers. which is why i'm asking who this expensive system is supposed to serve. the proposal is harmful to small and medium-sized enterprises, for whom any new bureaucracy is an obstacle to doing business and a way of monopolizing the european market. i will not support health regulations that cannot be proven to improve the health of europeans. expensive nutrition and health profiles on food packaging will not in themselves influence consumer behaviour and will certainly not lead to a reduction in the overweight or improved health of europeans. this affects lifestyle, a healthy environment, and trust in education and medical expertise. what the european consumer needs, however, is to understand all the complex information on food in every country of the union. i therefore support the harmonisation of the rules on claims made on food throughout the union and the fight against false claims. however, consumers would also prefer the clarity and visibility of the information on the composition rather than the health impact assessment of each food. unfortunately, this new regulation does not do much to improve consumer orientation such as the font size and the clear uniform form of the claims. instead, it proposes a complex authorisation system for the content of information on food. as a doctor, i know how important it is for people on special diets to be able to safely check every food they eat. for example, people who have gluten problems need to know for sure that even unpackaged pasta does not contain flour. this is more important for their health than the information about the reduced fat content of yogurt, which the european consumer is eating a butter roll with, and forgive me, a squeeze on top. the commission proposal is contrary to the lisbon strategy. i hope that tomorrow we will have a majority for our proposals, which will at least open the door to more flexibility in registrations, perhaps greater protection of applicants' rights, shortening the term of protection for scientifically proven claims and also excluding unpackaged alcoholic food from the directive and other changes. otherwise, we'd have to reject the proposal altogether.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11:30. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr albert jan maat, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down measures for the recovery of the stock of river eel (com (2005) 0472 - c6-0326/2005 - 2005/0201 (cns)) (a6-0140/2006).
for the group gue/ngl. i would like to advise your colleague to look at the integration of roma in italy, to look at the integration of minorities in other member states, in older member states, and then to speak further so that he does not get the wrong idea ladies and gentlemen, when in 1990 the then leaders of france and germany, president mitterrand and chancellor kohl, decided to address the countries of central, southern and eastern europe, they said: 'welcome to the european union. without boundaries. we invite you to participate in a joint project open to all european countries. we want to help you adopt technical standards quickly and bring your legal standards into line with those of other countries. a few years later, in copenhagen, three conditions were agreed upon for a country to join the european union. the economic part of the copenhagen criteria is vague and is usually interpreted, inter alia, as accession to the wto, as the treaty of association with the european union. the political part deals with the peaceful settlement of relations with neighbouring countries and with national policy. what the member countries of the old european union cannot do. in 1993, there was no talk of selling off national assets, of eliminating quotas for agricultural products, of dismantling nuclear power plants. the only essential condition at that time was not to worsen the conditions for the exchange of goods between the candidate countries and the european union. at that time, the commission opened negotiations with 12 countries. the agenda was technically divided into 29 chapters, an item on miscellaneous and an item on institutions. ten countries were admitted to the eu two years ago after the negotiations were concluded. to date, some conditions such as the drawdown of funds have not been set for them. their conditions of access include a number of discriminatory measures and it is true that they are very poorly assessed, especially in the field of agriculture and the food industry. the disparity in the position of entities established in the old and new member states is too obvious. we're in a curious situation today. the whole agenda has been discussed with bulgaria and romania, all chapters have been closed by consensus, and now new strange and discriminatory conditions are emerging. it's about restitution claims, it's about the liquidation of the modernized units of the kozloduy power plant, unequal conditions in agriculture and the food industry. there's talk of corruption, of judicial reform, of the plight of children, of the trafficking of white meat, and so on. everything we can blame on the old countries, we blame on the new member countries. i can understand the fanatical anti-nuclear energy. i understand that their views will not change and they are not interested in the energy situation in the balkans. why am i surprised? that is the position of italy and greece. they're taking some of the electricity from the kozloduy. so after the power plant is shut down, italy will be more dependent on imports from france and other countries, and where will greece get the missing energy? probably expand the coal burning. and this is despite the kyoto protocol. he can buy the carbon credits. and the bulgarians? they're supposed to have skylights because the belene plant is in the initial design documentation stage. or does the european commission have another ecological solution that is also realistic? please think about it, and try to say what the european union will really contribute to the development of these two countries. or is it simply that they are not to be admitted to the union on decent terms? my group is clearly in favour of being accepted by the deadline of 1 july 2007.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the relevant accession agreements of bulgaria and romania have been concluded. the union should be enlarged to include these states from the first day of the following year, but the timing is again in question. let me make a few observations, speaking from personal experience. that's because we've experienced similar pressures as those experienced in bulgaria and romania before joining the union. we have also heard that the czech republic is not quite ready yet, that it is not yet sufficiently fulfilling this or that. as a result, we still do not have the same conditions as the so-called old member countries. i would venture to say that many of the former eu-15 countries would have problems with the same conditions as those imposed on the czech republic, for example. and for bulgaria and romania, the requirements are perhaps even tougher. by questioning the date of accession to the union, by imposing unequal conditions, we are actually creating uncertainty and only supporting the forces that are against eu accession in both countries. moreover, we are creating a centrist opposition within the union for the future, which is not to say that we should ignore the shortcomings in the fight against corruption in bulgaria and romania, for example, or the manifestations of organised crime, after all, as in the other member states of europe. but it is not good for other countries and their citizens to come into the union with a feeling of inferiority and inequality. in this context, i think that it is not our goal to have a repeat of the situation in our country. in the czech republic, according to a public opinion poll, most people think that equality and justice do not prevail in the union, the so-called old member countries still have advantages denied to the new countries, subsidies forbidden to others. and in the case of bulgaria and romania, it's at least the same way. for all the examples, just one. the kozloduy nuclear power plant, which has been mentioned several times, is as safe as many others in europe, according to international experts. however, the union has forced bulgaria to close part of its nuclear capacity as a condition for entry, and the country will be transformed from an exporter of electricity to an importer. the question is, whose benefit is it in the end? so, in summary and underlining, we have awakened the citizens of bulgaria and romania to hope for membership in the union and now we should not treat them as hostages and bid on the date of entry. perhaps we, as member states with economic interests, might end up regretting it more than bulgaria and romania if enlargement did not take place on 1 january.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, technical harmonization not only removes technical barriers to trade and to everyday life, but also guarantees a high level of consumer protection in all the member states. for example, after the introduction of the european standard for playgrounds in 1997, the number of accidents involving children in austria fell by more than 25%. the objective of this directive is not to establish a new authority but to establish a legal framework for the systemic funding of standardisation bodies and agencies. there are many reasons for proper funding, but i want to mention at least one. the standardisation bodies in the new member states have very limited national budgets. unlike the authorities in germany, france or the uk, where they are not required to bear the costs of language translation. although the standards are transposed into national law de iure, it is in the new member states that they are available only in english, german or french. however, microenterprises do not have the capacity to handle complex translations. if we want standards to be useful for all businesses, they need to be available in all the official languages. you will agree that it is in the european community's interest to contribute financially to these translations as well. i rate the commission's proposal as very good. the rapporteur has also added a number of additions to the report, for example to help small and medium-sized enterprises. it also proposes measures to increase control and transparency of new funding. i would like to thank mrs palastinsky for that. i particularly appreciate the diligence and consistency with which she worked on this report and i would like to point out that she has thus earned the right to produce a high-quality and non-controversial proposal that will serve the european citizens well.
ladies and gentlemen, in the agreement, we are going to establish a european globalisation adjustment trust fund and pour 3.5 billion euros into it. i fundamentally disagree. i believe that once again, we are populist in giving away fish where we should be teaching ourselves to catch them. the globalisation fund is not about helping to create new jobs in promising sectors, it is about something else entirely. it wants to support those who will lose their jobs as a result of the departure of firms from the european union's tightly-knit shell. instead of cutting back on directives, opening up the services and labour markets and cutting taxes, we buy the goodwill of citizens by seeing short-term social benefits. does anyone in this room really think that higher unemployment benefits will help create new jobs? moreover, by creating the fund, we create the completely false impression that the european union can be protected from the rest of the world. ladies and gentlemen, just as we don't command wind or rain, we don't forbid capital from running where it feels best. we should not forget that.
ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for europe, we have finally approved the financial perspective for the years 2007 to 2013. and the approval of the financial perspective is also good news for the candidate countries and the western balkan countries. these countries will now have a clearer idea of what resources are available under the instrument for pre-accession assistance. i am absolutely in favour of the establishment of the pre-accession facility. i am convinced that it will make it possible to improve and streamline individual policies, particularly in the pre-accession period, and will also make it possible, which i consider very important, to increase crossborder and regional cooperation between the countries preparing for membership and those already members. however, as many speakers have already said, i would also welcome greater involvement of parliament in the formulation and development of individual strategies and greater involvement of parliament in, for example, any decision to suspend aid.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to commend the work of all those who have contributed to the preparation of the documents presented, in particular our rapporteur, and i agree with his opening remarks and the questions asked. as regards the treaty itself, i believe that an acceptable platform has been created for bringing together the countries not yet members of the union in the region on the basis of energy issues with a view to achieving their compatibility with the european union. while i am not an uncritical advocate of the omnipotence of market liberalisation, i appreciate that the commission has expressed its intention to address the related social aspects in a separate memorandum, which i consider to be a good signal not only for the citizens of the region. the interconnection of energy markets will then undoubtedly also have an impact on the security of energy supply both in the region of south-east europe and throughout the union. on the other hand, although i do not share the optimism that interconnection will provide people with cheaper energy, at least in the czech republic this has not happened. and one last note. in my view, the time has come to address the question of establishing a european independent transmission system dispatch centre to deal with the operational problems of flows, especially electricity, in the countries of the union and their immediate neighbours.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, we are primarily playing for time on the question of the rules for the structural funds. the process of implementing the eu rules for these funds is a difficult one, and we of the new member states have a vivid memory of the situation in 2004, when we started drawing on the funds with a delay of several months, which we are only just catching up with. i therefore call for an agreement on the guidelines for the structural funds to be concluded as soon as possible. i think it would be unfortunate if the agreement were to be scuttled or delayed because the european parliament would insist on certain demands at any cost until the last minute. it is necessary to agree as soon as possible to allow sufficient time to prepare operational programmes at national level. the final bone of contention between the council and parliament is the question of the community reserve. i would like to point out that the european council agreed that the allocations from the structural funds will be adjusted in 2010 for some member states, including the czech republic, following the update of the economic growth estimate. it would therefore be fair to approach the question of the reserve from this perspective as well, as economic growth in some countries has been clearly underestimated. the report under discussion is, in my view, a balanced text aimed at reaching an agreement with the council. i share the criticism of earmarking resources for the objectives of the lisbon strategy. in the present situation, where the commission in particular insists on the principle of earmarking, i at least appreciate that it does not concern the new member states, which, given the backwardness of many of their regions, will have to invest primarily in infrastructure and in the fight against unemployment. i also find it important to point out that the urban dimension is not sufficiently taken into account. cities face a number of problems. on the other hand, i have to appreciate that the commission agrees to break the existing ban on using funds for housing. in particular, in the new member states, there are a number of neglected, dilapidated panel sites whose renovation is lagging due to a lack of public resources. i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report and recommend that it be adopted.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in the age of climate change the risk of natural disasters is increasing year by year. the union should naturally react. the question is how? i do not think that the right response would be to create a single european policy to combat natural disasters, as one of the reports under discussion suggests. i do not share the view that if a problem arises, it should be addressed by legislation at union level. on the contrary, as a consistent supporter of the principle of subsidiarity, i believe that legislation at union level should only be introduced if the member states are unable to deal effectively with the problem themselves. natural disasters cannot be understood as a uniform phenomenon with a single strategy and a single legal framework. on the contrary, it is necessary to diversify. floods are a very different thing from a fire or a drought. the development of a european strategy should be limited to those types of natural disasters where a common action at union level can bring added value. otherwise, common strategies and directives are pointless and would be redundant regulation with no desired effect. i regard the call to the commission and the council to submit a proposal for the harmonisation of enforcement measures to punish arsonists as a flagrant breach of the principle of subsidiarity. as fires do not usually have a european dimension, the punishment of arson should be the exclusive competence of the member states. on the other hand, i consider the use of the galileo system to be developed for the forecasting and monitoring of natural disasters within the union to be an important and very positive aspect. for the solidarity fund regulation, i particularly appreciate the increased availability of financial assistance in the event of a natural disaster, where instead of the current eur 3 billion or 0.6% of gdp, a loss of eur 1 billion or 0.5% of gdp will suffice. moreover, even if the injury is lower, the proposal assumes that the commission will be entitled to assess the situation. the solidarity fund can contribute to the removal of damage, which can also contribute, inter alia, to a more favourable perception of the union in the eyes of the european public. thank you to all the reporters for that.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the discussion on coordination and cooperation in dealing with natural disasters. i am of course glad that the information and education campaign and the prevention of these measures also have a place in the report. i am convinced that the main areas of aid are those at high risk and that it is necessary to protect the environment and conserve natural resources. i believe that this cooperation should be voluntary and that the member states should strive to improve significantly the coordination and exchange of information. but i believe that contributions to individual agencies and to the building of european units should be on a voluntary basis and not mandatory. i therefore did not support the adoption of paragraph 31 and abstained in the vote on this report.
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on nepal.
author. ladies and gentlemen, south asia has long been a major regional problem, with instability in some of the countries of the region. certain areas in individual states are in rebel hands, and in afghanistan and nepal, it's most of the state territory. while in afghanistan the countryside is controlled by clan and tribal chiefs, in nepal 75% of the territory is controlled by groups with which the official structures have so far refused to negotiate. after the king assumed absolute power, the rest of the political entities also lost patience and people took to the streets from february 2006. today, after the formation of a new coalition government, we face crucial challenges. it's about changing the constitution, including the safeguards to preserve democracy, and most importantly, involving all partners in the solution. that's the latest report on the situation. of course, it is right to demand the speedy preparation of elections. the elected parliament should, among other things, prepare a new constitution as soon as possible, and our task is to support the process of democratization. it's about freedom of the media, the development of the country's economy. the resolution we have proposed and supported is helping to find a democratic way out of the present crisis and i believe that the european commission has already allocated the appropriate resources to support the whole process.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the five motions for resolutions on sri lanka.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, ladies and gentlemen, guided mines are a terrible weapon. especially when a mine hits a bus full of people. in this case, it doesn't matter if they're soldiers or civilians. this certainly very outrageous action by the tigers to liberate tamil ilam in the confusion has provoked an inordinate response to the bombing of the territories they control. and we have another round of violence, another opportunity to supply arms, to criticize the sri lankan government and to put very specific conditions on the colombo government before another possible round of peace talks. who cares about the potential oil and gas deposits between the island's coast and the union state of tamil nadu? unfortunately, the motion for a resolution does not address that. maybe some other time. now we can only support the motion that has been tabled, nothing more. perhaps just a final question for the national rights advocate, mr. schlyter. how are these rights secured for the sinhalese in the northeast of the island?
this debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the two motions for resolutions on taiwan.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately.
the next item is the vote. (for results and other voting details, see minutes)
the vote is closed.
i adjourn the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.15 p.m.)
that concludes the joint debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a. m. written statement (rule 142)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
thank you very much for your suggestion. i think we shall do that.
that concludes the item. (the sitting was suspended at 20.20 and resumed at 21.00)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the year of intercultural dialogue is intended to be a tool for harmonious human life in the multicultural society of the member states of the european union. i would therefore expect that the proposal will place a strong emphasis on the participation of citizens in this dialogue. however, the budget structure of the projects does not give much indication of this. the total of eur 10 million is structured in a sequence of three types of actions by level. points a and b at community level together amount to eur 7,5 million, i.e. 75% of the budget. the commission will also be able to provide financial support for the implementation of the new programme. if we calculate the amount per country, we get eur 100 000, so only 1% of the project budget goes to one country. the budget structure of this project therefore strongly suggests that it is a declared and very ambitious one: 'the basic objective of the project to promote dialogue between all cultures and between all people living in the eu' will be difficult, if not impossible, to achieve. the reason is simple: lack of funds for the wider implementation of people-to-people dialogue at national, bilateral and multilateral intergovernmental levels. such contacts can best contribute to the development of mutual respect, understanding and esteem based on cultural understanding.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, at this midnight hour, i shall begin with the story of a motorist who asked the attendant at a petrol station how much a drop of petrol cost. when he was told that a drop was free, he asked for a full tank. yes, even a little can save a lot, maybe a lot of money. there is no doubt that we have a set of measures and themes that can contribute to greater energy efficiency. but my truce was trying to point out the relativity of solutions that are certainly not simple. in my opinion, the main strength is science and research. so i think that if we don't support good intentions and proclaim sufficient funding for r&d and in the meantime behave rather the opposite then the energy efficiency targets may be more of a wishful thinking for us. an example for all to see: if we do not provide enough funding for the galileo project, we will not achieve greater energy efficiency in the future, for example in transport, which is undoubtedly one of the most energy-intensive sectors.
for the group gue/ngl ladies and gentlemen, i highly appreciate the report by mrs járóka. as the european union grows, some problems become more complex. one of the difficult tasks is what i would call the changes in the relationship between the majority population on the one hand and the roma and chinese community on the other. few european minorities face as much prejudice and misunderstanding as the roma, and few integration of national minorities into the majority environment brings as many problems. i believe that the obstacles faced by the roma ethnic group, and especially by women and children, are the legacy of the long-standing conflict between two different principles of civilization. over the centuries, distrust of one principle over another has accumulated, and instead of cooperation, the habit of living side by side rather than together has prevailed. and that's wrong. this misunderstanding is reflected in the distorted image of roma life in the media, exclusion from the educational and employment process and many negative phenomena in the roma population. on the other hand, it must be said that thanks to the daily work of dozens of institutions, voluntary roma and non-roma organisations and an increasing number of people, the situation is improving slightly in many european countries. society is gradually maturing to a stage where it is aware of the need to live together and to break down cultural, religious, and other prejudices. i have had similar experiences in the czech republic, and that fills me with optimism for the future.
mr president, like most of you, i was very shocked by the number of racially motivated murders that have taken place in some countries of the european union recently. it was the most blatant and atrocious manifestation of racism and xenophobia. however, there are other forms that are less visible but that affect a greater number of people. i would like to believe that the actions planned to support the european year of intercultural dialogue and, above all, that intercultural dialogue itself will be able to dampen nationalist sentiments throughout the union. i also consider 2008 to be the right time, since 27 countries will be members of the european union by then. however, such initiatives need to be developed, based on practical and sustainable projects that continue beyond 2008. for these reasons, i consider the report we have just adopted to be a step in the right direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few comments on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the assessment and management of floods. the directive is based on long-term experience gained in the member states in the management of watercourses. it emphasises the sound principles important for managing flood risks. people in this field welcome the directive. its implementation will help to reduce the growing threat of flooding. the approximation of the laws of the member states and the administrative requirements resulting from the adopted directive should not pose a serious problem. the czech republic has many years of experience in the field of water management. as one of the first countries in europe, it adopted a water management plan based on the management of individual watersheds in 1975. the crossborder solidarity required by the directive under discussion is of course already being respected today. an example is the extraordinary handling of the morava river in the czech republic during the last floods in the spring of this year. the exceptional handling of 230 million m3 of water outside the reservoir on the territory of the czech republic reduced the flow by more than 215 m3/s, culminating at 1500 m3/s. the dams on the slovak and austrian sides are designed for a maximum flow of 1600 m3/s. this has prevented loss of life and substantially increased flood damage. this example shows that we are not helpless in the face of floods. with sensible and coordinated policy, we can achieve substantial results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of floods has been very much on the agenda recently, and the damage caused by floods is reaching astronomical heights and affecting the economic development of the individual affected countries. these damages are mainly caused by a reduction in the natural water-holding capacity of the river basin and by insensitive interventions of civilization such as flood control, building and management in floodplains, reduction of the area of natural floodplains into the environment. climate change, with increased drought periods and more intense local precipitation, also plays a major role. i therefore welcome the proposal for a directive which will allow for better coordination in the prevention, design and management of flood control measures, including monitoring of individual areas, across the individual countries of the european union, including neighbouring countries. the emphasis on the principle of solidarity, which is also given in article 9 (4), which provides that flood risk management must not increase the flood risk in a neighbouring country, must be understood as meaning that there must be prior mutual consultation and consequently the linking of individual flood control measures with upstream and downstream modifications of a river, without the risk of negative mutual influence, in all the states through which the river flows. i also appreciate that the rapporteur, mr seeber, is aware of the key role of local and regional authorities in this process, as evidenced by a number of amendments that positively involve municipalities and regions in decision-making on the prevention, planning and management of flood risks that affect them. thank you, mr. seeber, for a job well done.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to pay tribute to the work of the rapporteur, mr buzek, especially as we are faced with a difficult decision on a report which i consider to be a key one in the controversial discussions on the continuation of nuclear research and fusion research in particular. i am clearly on the side of developing the world's largest partnership project in science. i say this as a man of personal experience with cutting-edge science and technology and as a member of parliament who has personally seen the excellent results of the european fusion research centre in britain. yes, money is scarce almost everywhere, and it is not easy to decide on research or a project as expensive as iter. but a key step for the future is needed if we are to maintain the unique position of european science in the field. i am in favour of maintaining the fusion research budget without counting iter costs. we are deciding on europe's energy independence in the future. finally, let me express my satisfaction that the czech republic has and will continue to have a significant share in nuclear fusion research and the iter project.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this front page of newsweek is dated yesterday, june 12, 2006. unfortunately, this website is reporting that european education systems are failing, including higher education. the seventh framework programme for research is based on a triangle of elements - education, research, innovation - which are closely linked. but if the achilles' heel of the triangle is already its starting point, namely education, we can plan and support research and innovation, but the expected results will not come. let us therefore pay attention to those institutions which are among the most important in terms of education and other research links, namely the universities. they are a natural source of great human potential that is not yet being used effectively. let us encourage the revival of research in universities and pay attention to the young generation of scientists who are being raised there. let's give them the opportunity and the incentive to stay in europe. let us also give universities the opportunity to meet the criteria of scientific excellence and support them in this endeavour, especially in the new countries of the european union. it can be, and i am convinced that it will be, one of the best investments under the seventh framework programme for research. in conclusion, i would like to thank mr buzko and congratulate him on his report on this research.
ladies and gentlemen, allow me to greet, on behalf of myself and you, the members of the chilean delegation of senators and deputies, led by mr jorge tarud daccaretta, who are present in the diplomatic gallery for the fourth meeting of the eu-chile joint parliamentary committee, which is taking place today in strasbourg, and i would like to extend to them my warmest greetings on behalf of our institution. as a sure winner, the european union and chile have concluded an association agreement that envisages relations based on three pillars: trade, cooperation and political dialogue. it was the entry into force of this agreement that made it possible to set up a joint parliamentary committee. i am convinced that the opening of the 4th session of the joint parliamentary committee marks a new and important period which will strengthen cooperation between the two parties, which share the same democratic values and a common attitude towards the rule of law. (applause) thank you very much.
the next item is the report by mr adamos adamou, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on planning for the preparedness and response to a flu pandemic in the european community (2006/2062 (ini)) (a6-0176/2006).
for the group gue/ngl commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the consequences of the judgment of the european court of justice of 13 september 2005 on the community's powers in criminal matters are so serious that this judgment is indeed a landmark in the development of community law. it can even be considered that, in certain circumstances, this precedent may have a negative impact on the sovereignty of the member states. the sine qua non of its application to community law-making based on the first pillar of the european union will therefore be strict respect for the principle of subsidiarity as enshrined in article 5 of the ec treaty and in the protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. directly linked to that principle is the need for the imposition of criminal sanctions by the european legislature under the first pillar to be exceptional and limited to what is necessary in order to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens and the essential interests of the european union. it is also necessary that the effects and overall impact of the criminal law standards adopted under the first pillar be rigorously and thoroughly monitored and evaluated. another area where the commission proposes criminal sanctions is the protection of intellectual property rights. this area is undoubtedly one of the main activities of the community under article 2 of the ec treaty. i believe, and i repeat, that this area is so important and dynamically developing that it requires a specific conceptual and system approach. i believe it is essential to develop a comprehensive approach to the protection of intellectual property rights, which will include, among other things, criminal law measures.
draft report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to congratulate and thank the rapporteur for her report. we can all agree that drugs and drug addiction are a hot topic not only in the european union but also in the world in general, and that they have major social and economic implications for society. this is why the most effective cooperation between all the relevant segments of society is certainly necessary and highly desirable. although this objective is clearly stated and certainly shared by all, the means of achieving it are often very difficult to agree on. i would like to welcome the positive changes that have been made in the report. first of all, i welcome the amendments adopted and approved by the committee on the environment, particularly those relating to closer cooperation between the member states of the union. an example of this closer cooperation is the centre's task of providing information on best practices and facilitating and promoting the exchange of information between member states. it is well known that drugs know no borders and that the european union's borders, internal or external, are certainly doubly so. i regret that the proposal for intensive cooperation with non-member european countries to combat the movement and trafficking of drugs was not incorporated in the final report, even though it is from these many non-member countries that the greatest volume of drugs flows into europe. on the other hand, i welcome the inclusion of a proposal for the exchange of data between the european centre, the un and the world health organisation, which will be an effective means of avoiding duplication of data collection and facilitating processing. i also welcome the proposal to establish active cooperation with europol, which will be of immense benefit in combating and combating drug-related crime. the proposed duty of the centre to inform member states of developments and new trends in drug use is also of key importance, allowing member states to be more prepared and able to respond. the centre's cooperation with the european parliament and the increased influence of the parliament, for example in drawing up the work plan of the centre, filling the post of director or evaluating the work of the centre, is, in my view, just another step towards the democratisation of the european institutions and a future closer monitoring of the work of the european centre. i consider the report as presented by the rapporteur to be very balanced and i recommend that it be adopted.
ladies and gentlemen, chancellor schüssel, at the beginning of the austrian presidency, promised a breakthrough in the constitutional negotiations. i therefore expect the council to make it clear that the text it is imposing on the citizens is incomprehensible, unfair and, above all, dead, and that a new document must be drawn up. if chancellor schüssel is a politician who stands by his word, then he cannot accept the delaying and manipulative tactics of chancellor merkel and president chirac. they want to leave the constitution for a year to 'reflect' and then decide on it under the german and french presidencies. austria has historically been in the best position to change this process. it has already been through the process of european integration. less than a century ago, austria-hungary was a union of 21 european countries. but it only existed for 51 years. why would you do that? problems were 'left to be dealt with' instead of being solved. i consider the extension of the reflection period on the current constitution a mockery of the citizens and the campaign for its revival a waste of their money.
in writing. mr president, i voted against this resolution, among other things, because the german police today have acted in an unprecedented way against the citizens of the czech republic. it refused entry to germany to dozens of football fans who wanted to participate in the 2006 world cup. i consider this a fundamental violation of the free movement of persons within the eu and a breach of the maastricht treaty. i believe that, like myself, many of my colleagues will demand an explanation from the german government as to how it is possible that it is trampling on the fundamental principles of the eu's existence. i have already lodged an interpellation in this connection with the commission and the council.
mr president, i voted against this as well. let me say a few words about that. although xenophobia and discrimination are shameful phenomena, i consider this proposal to be somewhat fashionable, which passes through this house quite often in various modifications. i voted against it also because i do not think that in a document like this the individual member states and their governments should be directly cited and encouraged to do otherwise, because everything is in the hands of the voters of those governments. we shouldn't be marking them. the second point certainly contains a list of very shameful acts, but i do not think that it is the dominant thought in europe, and that is why i voted against. i repeat in paragraphs 4 and 5 that i do not think it is appropriate for the european parliament to interfere in the internal affairs of sovereign states such as poland or russia in a way that i do not think is appropriate. point 11 again explicitly mentions poland, which is why i voted against.
the agenda for the meeting includes a joint debate on the question for oral answer to the commission on the use of wooden hoblins for the artificial aging of wine, put by vincenzo lavarra, roberto angelilli, katerina batzeli, jean marie beaupuy, giovanni berlinguer, giusto catania, thierry cornillet, giuseppe castiglione, donata gottardi, umberto guidoni, giovanni claudio fava, janelly fourtou, lilli gruber, claire gibault, nathalie griesbeck, anne laperrouze, pia elda locatelli, andrea losco, mario mauro, sebastiano (n) musciume, francesco casotto, philippe morillon, pasqualina napoletano, pier antonio pittella, giovanni pittelli, pirelli, pirelli, giusto pittinelli, guido sacco, matteo prodi, francesco salvini, nicola enrico, francesco speroni, francesco zuccardo, marcello zuccardo, giuseppe verdi, gianni verdi (occetto) and giuseppe verdi) on the use of the method for the oral answer to the questions put by the european democratic group on the use of the hoblins as a method of wine by the european party (occidental wine producer)
the joint debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on east timor.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5:00.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on syria and human rights violations.
author. – mr president, firstly i would like to welcome four representatives from the syrian opposition who have come here from different parts of europe to support their countrymen. anwar al-bunni, michel kilo, khalil hussein, safwan tayfour, mahmoud issa, fateh jammous, suleiman achmar, nidal derwiche, suleiman shummor, ghalem amer, muhammad mahfud, mahmoud mer’i and kamal labwani are only a few of those who were imprisoned in the cruel and inhuman jails of the syrian intelligence services on 19 may. they were imprisoned because they, together with 500 other intellectuals, signed a petition calling for the normalisation of relations with lebanon. they were imprisoned because they want peace, stability and normal life to prevail in the middle east. they were imprisoned because they want the very same things that we want. kamal labwani came to us a year ago to share here with us the outlook as regards the situation in syria. he told us that when he went back he would be imprisoned. he arrived at damascus airport and was imprisoned. today he faces a life sentence and so far we have done nothing to help. anwar al-bunni had just accepted the post of director in the centre for human rights financed by the european union. he was therefore immediately imprisoned. our responsibility for their imprisonment is clear. let us be responsible for their freedom. how can we work and live here in dignity if those who come here to talk and to work for us face life imprisonment? we urge you, commission, council, member states, and especially the european public, to help us free those who are tortured, abused, imprisoned and killed, because they want their country and their countrymen to live in dignity and peace. the authoritarian regime in syria runs an enormous number of abnormally cruel political prisons. let syria free all its political prisoners before we have further dialogue on the syrian association agreement.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5:00.
the next item is the debate on north korea's human rights record.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5:00.
the next item is the vote. (for results and other voting details, see minutes)
i adjourn the session of the european parliament. (the meeting closed at 17.20)
this debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12:00. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr joseph muscat, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on further consolidation in the financial services sector (2006/2081 (ini)) (a6-0170/2006), and the oral question on mergers and acquisitions on european stock exchanges by mrs pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-0069/2006 - b6-0317/2006).
this debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12:00.
the next item is the report by corien wortmann-kool, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation repealing regulation (eec) no 4056/86 laying down detailed rules for the application of articles 85 and 86 of the treaty to maritime transport and amending regulation (ec) no 1/2003 as regards the extension of its scope to cabotage and tramp services (com (2005) 0651 - c6-0046/2006 - 2005/0264cns)) (a6-0217/2006).
this debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12:00.
the next item is the report by mr alexander alvaro, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information on the payer to be provided in connection with transfers of funds (com (2005) 0343 - c6-0246/2005 - 2005/0138 (cod)) (a6-0196/2006).
ladies and gentlemen, balancing the conditions for different modes of transport is certainly not a simple matter. the qualification requirements for the crew, the infrastructure of the different modes of transport, the fuel or energy required for the propulsion units and the security, the uniform operating rules of the mode of transport, the environmental impact and their assessment aspects are really many. they start with research and development and end with accident evaluation. the report under discussion is therefore of great interest to the scientific community. the basic requirement for the introduction of any measure is to ensure a level playing field for competing entities. therefore, even when introducing carbon dioxide emission allowances in aviation, it is necessary to require that article 32 of the draft resolution, within the meaning of the kyoto protocol, be met, i.e. that there is no increase in emissions above the level in the base year, for all operators. air transport is always at the forefront of the introduction of new technical solutions in modern times. it will therefore certainly continue to set an example in reducing emissions and in other areas. here's the boundary-setting for the next act. nevertheless, standards for volatile hydrocarbons, in particular aromatic, particulate, nitrogen oxides and other parameters such as noise, should be set and the same for all users of european union airspace so that union carriers are not discriminated against by the selective application of limits. similarly, support for the use of biofuels is desirable. the introduction of vat is also not subject to unfair competition by foreign carriers and must be coordinated across all air transport, not just within the european union. the whole operation will be difficult, but it is feasible, subject to the conditions set out in the report. i therefore warmly recommend, on behalf of the gue/ngl club, that all members support the report on the reduction of the impact of aviation on climate change, including our amendment. finally, a note on a significant source of emissions, these are military flights and helicopter flights, both surveillance and guard flights. let's try to reduce them, commissioner.
the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. mr president, today's debate brings to a close the process of negotiating the general rules for the mobilisation of the funds, which has lasted for more than 14 months. we have a reasonable compromise. for the new countries of the union, this means that the need for co-financing, which prevented the funds from being drawn efficiently, will be reduced. for the czech republic, for example, it is reduced to 15%. private sources may also be involved in co-financing. the non-refundable value-added tax will be a deductible expense and the stupid m+2 rule will turn into m+3 for a while. and those social housing projects that have a direct relationship to the environment will become a recognizable cost to the funds. it sounds like the standard terms that the original european community countries have used for decades. but the ten new countries were denied. perhaps in the hope of further complicating the already difficult process of obtaining eu funds - funds that were part of the promise made in the accession negotiations. fortunately for the new countries, it is not just parliament that is unilaterally divided into new and old countries, but it is also the council that has pushed this compromise into the new rules. but if we leave it to the council to make sensible compromises, we become a useless institution that will only use the proportion of delegations' votes to enforce rules that will further disintegrate the european union. the long and fruitless debate in this parliament over the past 14 months only shows what would have happened to the union if we had adopted the european constitution by majority vote, i.e. the vote that applies here. the small, the weak, the poor, the new would be forced to follow the rules of the majority of the original countries, which we see here in the european parliament. and the decision-making process, where consensus and vetoes prevail and which led to a reasonable compromise in the council, would be excluded from the game.
ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the changes to the structural funds that the european council has made at its last meeting. unlike this parliament, it has shown a far greater degree of realism and situational awareness of the real needs of the member states. i consider it very positive that the council intends to use the european regional development fund to pay back value added tax where it is not refundable. i also regard the fact that the erdf will finance, albeit to a limited extent, the cost of housing as a good message to citizens. and then, unfortunately, in the third, again thanks to the council, the automatic cancellation of the commitment, or the old m+2 rule, is changed to m+3. so the states have a lot more room to do projects and raise money. ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the above that the council has shown a far greater degree of solidarity than this parliament in the debate on the structural funds. i believe that we should support the council's position rather than making up tricks to change these rules and the budget as we draw up the budget.
mr president, commissioner, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, after many months of negotiations and endless discussions on the financial perspective, we now have before us the final draft regulation on the structural funds. however, it must be stated openly that these documents represent a compromise - a compromise born with great difficulty in the grip of national interests. let me therefore congratulate the various rapporteurs of the european parliament, and in particular mr hatzidakis and mr olbrycht, who have conducted the most difficult part of the discussions, for their efforts, their willingness and their ability to take account of the interests of all concerned. i personally believe that if people are to identify with the european union, the benefits must be clearly felt in the individual member states. housing is at the top of the hierarchy of necessities. without quality housing and a safe home, people cannot work effectively. i am therefore pleased that our amendments on the eligibility of social housing renovation costs have been passed in the negotiations with the council and the european commission. i also think it's crucial that we open the door to more investment in the health system. the rule is that only a healthy person can be economically active. as a former mayor, i also welcome the emphasis the european commission is placing on the urban dimension of structural policy, which is being given greater emphasis in the new legislation. after all, it is our cities that are closest to the final beneficiaries and also know best which activities and projects to support. but i am afraid that this urban dimension and the principle of partnership will not remain on paper. i know from the example of the czech republic how unwilling the state and often the regions are to invite our cities to decide on the form of operational programmes. i would therefore consider it useful for the commission to analyse the degree to which the urban dimension is being fulfilled in each member state.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to explain my negative vote on the report by alain lamassoure on the eu's own resources system. i voted against this report, as did the other members of the ods of the czech republic. i am convinced that the reform of the eu's own resources system agreed by the european council and the commission is a good compromise that the european parliament should not scrap. on the contrary, it would be good if the european parliament were to join in such a process. we particularly appreciate the fact that no european tax will be introduced in the foreseeable future. the existing system is fairly functional and provides good union funding. there is therefore no real reason to demolish it and replace it with a new system, and for that reason i cannot share the critical spirit of the alain lamassoure report.
mr. chairman, allow me to explain the lucas report, which i voted against, along with the other members of the ods. air transport has undergone a rapid development over the last 40 years, leading to a reduction in emissions and noise of more than 40%. there is no scientific evidence that excessive regulation is needed in the form of what the lucas report is presenting. increasing taxes on petrol will reduce the competitiveness of european air carriers and increase the prices of the final product for customers. the weakening of the competitiveness of air transport will lead to the european union falling further behind the world. it's just the fashionable environmentalism that we had on the table, which is why we voted against it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to comment on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the harmonisation of technical requirements and administrative procedures in the field of civil aviation. this regulation lays down a number of technical provisions which are of major importance for safety and which can be generally accepted. however, some regulations on emissions, flight time limits and administration are inadequate and need to be placed in the overall context. any intention to add taxes on fuel or services would restrict free competition and competition for new airlines and airports. it should be borne in mind that in addition to improving safety and quality of service, we must also focus on facilitating business conditions, eliminating red tape and reducing air transport prices. mobility is one of the prerequisites for economic growth and the increase in air transport prices would also mean a competitive disadvantage on the global market.
the preliminary report we have on our table today is the result of the work of a committee that has unfortunately decided to compensate for its lack of investigative powers by a greater effort to politically condemn the activities of america's allies in europe. the committee's six-month work has produced nothing that has not been previously published in the press. i regret that the majority of the committee, from a few facts and a huge number of unfounded assumptions, have drawn unbiased and distorted conclusions. i fear that the result of the committee's irresponsible approach may not only be to undermine the credibility of the european parliament, but also to damage the trust between european and american allies. this trust is crucial for the success of the fight against terrorism, for ensuring the security of the transatlantic area and for the stability of global affairs in general. i want to stress that the fight against terrorism must be conducted in accordance with international law and with respect for human rights. at the same time, however, the few mistakes that may have occurred in the context of complex counter-terrorism operations conducted on a global scale cannot be presented as a system. if there is a suspicion of human rights violations on the territory of the european union, it is up to the judiciary of the member states to clarify them. however, rather than unfoundedly condemning the us intelligence services, the political representation of the european union should focus on how, in close cooperation with allies and in compliance with the fundamental principles of international law, to effectively prevent terrorist activities and to assume its share of responsibility for security in the world. i am confident, mr president, that the plenary of this parliament will take the opportunity to amend the report in such a way as to give credibility to our work. otherwise, i will be forced to reject the report of the temporary committee, and the entire czech delegation to the european people's party club, which has agreed to this procedure, will do so with me.
ladies and gentlemen, there are almost 10 million refugees in the world today and 25 million so-called internally displaced persons, mainly in the south. as a former refugee myself, having been in a refugee camp, i would like to focus on the situation of migrants in refugee and transit zones. i think there is no doubt that the living conditions of migrants in the receiving and transit countries, especially in the sahel countries, need to be improved. we need to build all kinds of information centers, foreign aid centers, legal aid centers. programmes for the prevention and treatment of a wide variety of diseases, including sexually transmitted diseases and aids, need to be designed. the most vulnerable groups, including women and children, need to be helped. i would therefore urge the commission to develop a comprehensive strategy aimed at supporting recipient and transit countries. the capacity of these countries in the south needs to be supported as well as their right to conduct their own migration policy.
mr. chairman, trust is a beautiful thing, but it's not without checks and balances. if we have voted today on several packages of financial proposals, then this instrument of stability is the least transparent. the complexity is evident from the objectives of the measure itself. a broad definition can include practically nothing, including the justification of a policy of non-involvement in the case of a right-wing coup like general franco's. maciej giertych indicated to us here the day before yesterday that, under the second part of the objectives of this instrument, it would even be possible to support general franco from european union funds. he warned us that his only concern was to restore and consolidate traditional catholic values in spain. although the document itself does not contain any figures, the commission promised to provide them soon. there's only one thing to say. parliament is completely out of it. after all, this was also emphasised by the foreign affairs committee of the european parliament at the trialogue meeting, i.e. the meeting of the council, parliament and the commission, and it was asked to change this. the white check should not be displayed in this parliament. some of the material is suspicious, unclear and obviously ready for possible misuse. that's why i voted against the material.
mr. chairman, i want to go back to the corbett report. i assume that in the confusion caused by the departure of members from this chamber my request for an explanation of vote has been refused. so let me say a few words about the material that was called comitology. i voted against this report, as did my colleagues from the ods, because we consider it to be controversial material, since it delegates more powers to the national states in favour of the european commission. we believe that the voters in france and the netherlands have clearly sent the european institutions a message of what they want and don't want in terms of delegating these competences to the european commission. and we don't think that back doors should be used to circumvent their decisions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my deep disappointment at the approval of mr fava's report. there are four reasons for this statement. first, the report is based on one-sided general information, not on precisely stated facts verified from various sources. second, the report is contradictory. if there are irrefutable facts proving the use of european countries by the cia for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners, then the word 'alleged' should have been removed from the title of the report. and the other way around. if, after all the efforts of the members of the temporary committee and other interested parties, the rapporteur uses the word 'alleged' in the title of the report, then he is implicitly admitting that the committee is not able to prove illegal activities. third, it is possible that over time, a breach of the law may be revealed in several of the above-mentioned suspects, or in new cases. when we consider the scale and complexity of the fight against terrorism, this should not come as a surprise. the point is that it would be an individual, not a systemic error. persons who feel that their rights have been restricted can use standard and functioning mechanisms to enforce their rights, including compensation. fourthly and lastly, let us consider how much time the european parliament has spent investigating the alleged problem and how much time it has spent investigating the real problem of terrorism. the adoption of mr fava's report raises doubts as to whether we are able to assess the scale of the problems and whether we can respond adequately to them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ods members of the european parliament elected in the czech republic today in this plenary session refused unanimously to support the interim report on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners, presented by the rapporteur fava. the report, in our view, is built on a fashionable anti-americanism that fails to take into account the gravity of the threat of international terrorism. for five years, the united states and its allies, including the czech republic, have been making a concerted effort to eliminate this grave threat. since 2001, we have witnessed terrorist attacks in the united states, britain, spain, and a host of other countries. this very real danger and the need to fight it, favo's report completely ignores. the report also completely ignores the fact that it is thanks to the joint action of the us and its allies from a number of european countries that international terrorism has been significantly reduced and thus contributed to greater security for the citizens of european countries. instead, the report focuses on a few little-documented instances of problematic behavior by us security forces and their allies, and draws far-reaching conclusions from them. such a position cannot be supported by the votes of the members of the ods of the czech republic.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the situation in the congo.
this debate is closed.
the rapporteur is the committee on industry, research and energy. ladies and gentlemen, in the past, the whole social spending sector was seen as a residual matter, as a matter of redistribution. i think that the experience of recent years has shown that these are not expenditure but investment and i am glad that we are discussing this report under the finnish presidency. the finns overcame the crisis in the early 1990s by investing in people, just like the danes did in the time of bishop grundvig. recently, american economist richard florida's work on the creative class and the creative economy has been in the spotlight. it is important that we create a network that is able to capture any talent in european societies and move our development forward. i think it is very important that we understand the european social model as a space of choice and not as a matter of unification. we need to diversify our lifestyles, because where you have a focus on cheap labor, like in asian economies, you're reducing the space for choice and actually reducing the number of opportunities for economic growth.
ladies and gentlemen, developments clearly show that the european social model is not only economically unsustainable, but also unsustainable in terms of values. the social model is intended to serve as a safety net or springboard for those citizens who are unable to work because of temporary difficulties, old age or illness. but it has become a comfortable pillow especially for those who don't want to work. the european social model is populist and generous, living in debt in many countries, does not motivate citizens to take personal responsibility for themselves and their families, does not motivate them to improve their skills and performance, encourages irresponsibility and laziness, induces passivity and indifference in people and ultimately leads to the flight of companies outside the union and to high unemployment in individual countries. the current populist social system, while providing electability for politicians, does not really provide citizens with a prosperous future. it should be made clear that the european social model is not a self-evident claim or a self-evident right, as politicians claim, but a temporary bonus derived from the performance of the economy.
we all agree, obviously, that mental health is a prerequisite for the intellectual and emotional fulfilment of the individual and for integration into society, yet mental health has received less attention in recent years than other areas. the european commission's green paper and, in particular, the excellent report by our colleague mr bowis, fill this gap and provide many ideas for future work not only for the european commission but also for all of us doctors and citizens. the report i have before me, in my view, does a very good job of identifying the underlying problems in mental health, putting them in a broader context and offering space to reflect on such pressing issues as the stigmatisation of the mentally ill, the way they are treated and the gender gaps that are so striking in mental health. first of all, i would like to highlight the appeal made by mr bowis and the commission's green paper to the most effective way of combating the growing incidence of mental illness, namely prevention. this should be one of the priorities of our active approach. it is the influence of environment, work and family, the areas that affect mental health and where prevention could be effective, that should be the focus of our attention and action plans. i also very much welcomed the important mention of gender gaps in mental health, which was not adequately addressed in the commission's green paper. women are more likely to seek medical care, are more likely to take medications that they cannot tolerate, and are more likely to be exposed to unwanted pressures in their environment that can result in mental disorders. one area that deserves future attention from all doctors and politicians, but also from the general public, is certainly the issue of stigmatization of the sick. the emphasis placed on this issue in the report reflects the seriousness of the situation. i welcome all the comments and suggestions made by the rapporteur. while i see them as very inspiring suggestions for the best way to contribute to the highest standard, which i identify with as a doctor, the reality, unfortunately, at least in my country, is that these programmes are extremely expensive and unfortunately not a priority yet. the possibility of joint programmes in the european union in this area could help to resolve this dilemma.
ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and the republic of albania, despite some of the criticisms we have heard here, is good news, good news for albania, good news for south-east europe and, of course, good news for the european union as a whole. i am convinced that the agreement will contribute to strengthening the process of political, economic and institutional stabilisation in albania and i am also convinced that the agreement will contribute to strengthening civil society, the process of democratisation and the reform of the public service. what i consider very important, and what i would like to focus on in these two minutes, is the very emphasis that the agreement places on the development of regional cooperation. the main elements of this cooperation should be the strengthening of political dialogue with all albania's neighbours and the establishment of a free trade area in the south-east asian region. as the experience of central europe, of the countries that have joined the cefta grouping, has shown, it was this free trade area that contributed significantly to the overall readiness of these countries for later accession to the european union. an important aspect of this regional cooperation is the gradual introduction of the fundamental freedoms of the european union, the free movement of capital, services, goods and, of course, people. the implementation of these freedoms should make a significant contribution to strengthening overall cooperation in the region, including between albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. and for that reason i find it very useful that the stabilisation and association agreement expressly states that albania's readiness to conclude such agreements with its neighbours will be one of the conditions for the further development of relations between albania and the european union.
i may have misheard, but i wouldn't have located albania in southeast asia, i see it in the balkans. i must admit that sometimes i am left speechless when reading the european parliament's motions for resolutions. in general, i certainly agree that the most important thing is that all the balkan countries should be able to conclude agreements with the european union. the first step is the conclusion of stabilisation and association agreements. it is a good thing that three years ago, in june 2003, the council in thessaloniki put the european perspective of albania into practice. i'm not sure the progress we've made is comparable to other countries in the region. i lack an assessment of the functioning of the state, an assessment of the development of the economy, the situation at the borders and the building of real economic and political structures. it is clear that albania is a stable state compared to bosnia and herzegovina. similarly, the comparison with macedonia is positive. however, i am not sure that the open borders, the large migration and the problems of law enforcement, the specific difficulties in foreign trade and the state of energy supply close to collapse are at least partially acceptable for a state aspiring to conclude an association agreement with the european union. i recommend that the european union's assistance in building the legal system in the broadest sense, including the actual work of the customs and financial police, be strengthened, including, inter alia, the stabilisation of the legal system. as my gue/ngl group supports the rapprochement of the balkan countries with the european union, we will, despite the above reservations, agree to the proposal on the state of readiness of albania to sign the proposed agreement.
mr president, the members of the civic democratic party voted against the draft report on the european social model for the future. the report rightly states that there is no real european social model, it accurately describes the set of values we all share and it identifies the challenges that each country has to face in its social policy. the report is a good starting point for further discussion, but we do not support the solution it proposes. we do not agree that the report refers to the already rejected draft constitution for europe. in our view, the report is aimed at restricting competition in the social and tax fields, as well as the sovereignty of the member states in these areas.
mr president, my whole life engagement with the middle east does not lighten my own burden of responsibility. the situation is grave; we are almost engaged in the process of recreating an islamic caliphate. in south lebanon, we are not facing resistance movement militias, but rather special units that are well trained, manned and equipped by iranian revolutionary guards. they are equipped via damascus international airport. this army is probably better than any other arab regular army. therefore, i suggest we must close and seal the lebanese-syrian border, send an eu monitoring mission such as the one sent to serbia and republika srpska in the mid-1990s. we must fully control damascus international airport. we need clear rules of engagement. i ask you, what precisely does ‘assist the lebanese army, disarming of armed groups without right to use force’ mean? we have to pull syria back from its involvement with russia and russian interests immediately. what can we offer there? we have to bring back lebanese businessmen to increase investors’ confidence in their country, and we have to stop iran from smuggling uranium, otherwise regional war will turn into a global problem. (applause)
ladies and gentlemen, i have been watching with sadness over the past few weeks the tragic situation in lebanon, a country which has made enormous progress in the field of human and civil rights since the end of the civil war, has made enormous progress in building and strengthening a multicultural and multiethnic democracy and civil society, has made enormous progress in economic recovery, and many of these results and achievements have unfortunately been undermined or even destroyed by the excessive use of military force in the conflict between israel and hezbollah. i am convinced that one of the conditions for lasting peace in the middle east is the existence of an independent, strong and sovereign lebanese state, alongside israel and the palestinian state. however, as developments in recent years and months have shown, lebanon cannot do this task alone. it needs the help of the international community, it needs help in economic recovery, it needs support in consolidating democracy, in exercising state power in all its aspects, including security and military aspects, throughout the territory of lebanon. only then will the democratically elected lebanese authorities be able to gradually disarm the military branches of hezbollah and integrate the movement into the political life of the country. i would therefore urge both the council and the commission to continue to make every effort to help lebanon.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his comprehensive report and, although i do not fully agree with many of the points in the report, i welcome them as subjects for discussion. while the rapporteur has clearly sought to give the broadest and most detailed picture possible of the eu-china relationship, i believe there are two areas which deserve far greater attention in the future. the rapporteur stresses several times in his report that as the people's republic of china's importance in world politics and its importance as a world economic power increases, so does its international responsibility. in the context of this growing responsibility, i would like to highlight two issues which i consider to be key. first of all, there are environmental issues. the authorities of the people's republic of china are aware of this serious fact, but they are constrained by the costs of producing and consuming more environmentally friendly products. i believe that the european union should be much more active in tackling this issue than it has been up to now. perhaps environmental protection and so-called green technology could be the future areas of investment for european union companies in china. the second issue raised in the report, which i believe should be a major topic in the negotiations with the representatives of the people's republic of china, but also an area in which europe should share experience, is occupational health protection, social security, social dialogue, the prevention of child labour and the safeguarding of workers' fundamental rights. let us lend a helping hand and help find solutions to this complex problem that will contribute, above all, to improving the level of those who are most involved in the chinese miracle.
let me focus my brief remarks on one aspect of the economic relations between the european union and the people's republic of china. statistics show that trade between the two countries is growing, dynamically, and has increased by a factor of 40 in the last 25 years. the european union has become china's largest trading partner and china, in turn, the union's second largest trading partner. but despite this positive development, we cannot ignore the many negative phenomena which are hindering the further expansion of trade between the two countries, and here i would mention first and foremost the piracy and counterfeiting of european products and brands by chinese industry. it is no secret that more than two thirds of the counterfeit goods seized on the european market come from china. i would therefore urge the commission and the council to focus on this problem at the forthcoming summit in helsinki. china should be encouraged to substantially improve the protection of intellectual property rights and foreign inventions, to strengthen current legislation on the protection of intellectual property rights and, of course, also the work of its civil courts in dealing with cases of industrial piracy. the wto rules that china has accepted are binding on them after all.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the proposal for a council decision on the accession of the european community to the hague conference on private international law, i would like to say that this is a step which is absolutely necessary, particularly since the treaty of amsterdam would give the community the power to adopt measures in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters with a crossborder element, provided that such measures are necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market. a number of steps taken or being prepared by the community in the exercise of this competence overlap with the activities of the hague conference. since the adoption of those internal instruments entailed the transfer of external competence from the member states to the community in the areas governed by those instruments, it is necessary for the community to become a full member of the hague conference. the aspect of continuously strengthening the legal certainty of citizens also has, in my view, its unquestionable place here.
the next item is the joint debate on the- commission statement on the use of passenger personal data - report by sophia in 't veld, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council for the negotiation of an agreement with the united states of america on the use of passenger name record (pnr) data to prevent and combat terrorism and cross-border crime, including organised crime (2006/2193 (((ini)) (a6-0252/2006).
the author. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, zimbabwe, that is the former southern rhodesia. the regime that rules here would be considered a harsh personal dictatorship throughout europe. with the transfer of power to the current rulers, the farmers were quickly driven from the large farms, and the country is still on the brink of famine. so the mugabe government invited these white descendants of the colonialists back into the country and gave them the farms. the situation quickly improved. today, they are being driven out or killed again, and the government has not even begun to teach farmers to manage their land rationally. there is also no support for cooperatives and no provision for aid for the purchase of the corresponding equipment. these are key problems in economics. the political problems are addressed in a motion for a resolution which contains some unacceptable or somewhat questionable proposals. i openly protest against the stupid call made to south africa to boycott zimbabwe at the fifa world cup. you're not serious? i also do not know why the authors declare in recital d that the main political opposition unfortunately split into two factions in october 2005. if this statement is meant to criticize the mugabe regime, then i don't understand it. if we really want to embarrass ourselves, we can challenge the local shamans to dry up the rivers and make victoria falls disappear. one more comment on paragraph 5 of the resolution. in some european union countries, too, extremely few voters participated in the various elections. do we not therefore recognize the legitimacy of the representatives, deputies, senators, some of our colleagues, who have been elected in this way? allow me to express my legitimate alarm at this point in the resolution. the gue/ngl group shall not take part in the vote on the adoption of the resolution. finally, a question for the commissioner. commissioner, how can we support the south african government, which we are urging to do better with refugees from zimbabwe?
i have a talk on a similar subject. as i have already said, a disturbing report has come from the european commission in recent days. the spokesman for the home affairs commissioner said that for various technical and legal reasons, the second phase of the schengen system was not ready. a system that was to be launched or is to be launched in the autumn of next year. the report is worrying for the whole of europe and it is worrying for the new member states in particular, which have spent considerable resources and efforts to be ready for the autumn of next year. i would therefore ask the european commission to inform the plenary of this parliament of the technical difficulties, of any legal difficulties and also of who is to blame for this situation, because preparations have been going on as planned so far. i'd like to know who's responsible for this situation.
for the ppe-de group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the draft recommendation presented is a european reference tool for key competences in lifelong learning. the recommendation is intended to contribute to improving the quality of life of all citizens of the european union. this is a matter of concern to hundreds of millions of people. it is therefore extremely difficult to develop an optimal, balanced, timely and applicable structure and definition of key competences that would meet the expectations of contributing to better inclusion and to the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. the recommendation attempts to define the skills that lead to the formation of a current profile of the european citizen and that all citizens of the european union should or could acquire. this ambition seems to me to be very high and i think it is quite far from being realised. as a reference tool, this document could be useful. its distinct weakness, however, is that it attempts to profile the citizen in the whole complexity of life aspects, but precisely without determining at least an indicative hierarchy of the competencies included. just as the objectives and methods of achieving them differ in each scientific project, the target competences with an integrated social character, such as a sense of interpersonal and intercultural relations or entrepreneurial skills, and the methodological competences used to achieve the objectives could be identified. i'm intentionally linking this to the principle of the scientific project, because one of the key competencies is the ability to be a science field that incorporates scientific principles and methods. the importance of key competences is emphasised in the context of the information society and for the knowledge-based society. what i lack here is a society based on mutual respect, a society based on democracy. that's a priority social principle for me, and they consider the ability of people to live together to be the most crucial ability. i congratulate mrs. trüpel, because she has made a substantial positive impact on the quality of this document.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11:30. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by christopher beazley, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on initiatives to complement curricula with appropriate support measures taking into account the european dimension (2006/2041 (ini)) (a6-0267/2006).
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the czech republic also teaches two foreign languages from primary school onwards and that the subject of european identity has become part of the social science curriculum in higher education, such as the university of ostrava, but i would like to draw your attention to one aspect of the concept of european identity which, however, lacks the emphasis it deserves. i mean tolerance. the rapporteur speaks of the need for a common history, which i consider to be an idealistic goal, and one that can only be achieved in the more distant future. but what can be achieved, and what is necessary for the presence of the european union, is tolerance. european nations cannot have a unified view of their history, for the success of one nation has often been the failure of another. and this view has only recently changed. there is no nation in europe that stands above the history of the continent and that can provide a view that suits everyone and offends no one. the idea of a common european history can only be a compromise. understanding the history of other countries and their unbiased interpretation sine ira et studio, that's a realistic goal. by showing tolerance for historical and cultural differences, europeans will be able to extend its value to other countries and cultures around the world. at the same time, tolerance and understanding will become the basis for defining common european values. young people should learn foreign languages, but they should also learn about the culture and history of other countries. it is the task of teachers to impart this knowledge as values requiring the same respect as if they were values of their own.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11:30.
the next item is the report by mr thomas mann, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the creation of a european qualifications framework (2006/2002 (ini)) (a6-0248/2006).
this debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11:30.
i would like to thank my colleague rapkay for his report. i must say that after having read in detail the material on this subject and following the long debate on this subject, i must say that on the one hand i agree with the idea of creating a framework directive on services of public economic interest. i am in favour of the creation of a directive which would provide for services of general interest as one of the main pillars of the european social model. it would provide legal certainty, a legal basis based on general principles such as equal access, high quality services, reasonable prices, versatility and security. it is certainly necessary to strike a balance between the operation of the market and the public institutions responsible for public services. on the other hand, the report raises new questions. will we really be able to ensure that the content of this framework directive is in line with the principles mentioned above? would the framework directive really protect services of public economic interest?
in writing. let me comment on mr mavrommatis' report, which we voted on without debate. in addition to a number of inspired and unquestionable ideas and conclusions, the report also contains a large number of empty and unnecessary phrases which not only do not reflect the real situation in the eu member states, but also do not contribute to solving the problems that the union should be dealing with in the case in question. i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that in some member states the media are far from being independent or professional, let alone a "critical and essential factor for human development". for example, in the czech republic, the media is merely a market segment and a tool for political manipulation and misinformation of the public. it is no secret that the key media in the czech republic are owned by foreign companies and the regional press is owned by the only german publishing house. a characteristic feature of this situation is the segregation of left-wing opinions in particular, the scandalisation and criminalisation of entire groups of the population, and the reduction of the role of journalists to a mere wage-earning workforce, which must unconditionally respect and defend the political platform of the publisher. there are no restrictions on the concentration of media power for publishers. i must therefore regard the empty and pleasant words about ethics and humanity as profound naivety and also as an avoidance of the real problems that exist in the media sphere on the territory of the eu.
i supported the report by mr beazley on the promotion of activities taking into account the european dimension in the curricula of national education systems. it is clear that the complementarity of curricula on the themes of a common european history, a common cultural heritage and an understanding of the current events in europe must be carried out in parallel with the development of other areas such as the promotion of multilingualism. i appreciate the rapporteur's mention of the european schoolnet education portal and its activities. i must also mention the etwinning project, which has over 17 000 european schools registered and aims to bring together educational institutions from different countries to create joint projects. the own-initiative report is a good impulse for the member states to integrate european themes into their education systems.
i supported the report on transnational mobility, given the importance of this activity for the future quality of students' acquired skills and a prerequisite for their successful professional development. i appreciate that the report includes principles that, if followed, will increase the effectiveness of all types of organised learning mobility. at the same time, by using europass, educational institutions and employers obtain transparent information on the progress and quality of study placements and professional practices. the report is a good basis for further support for education and training.
the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. mr president, we members of parliament from post-communist countries who are already members of the union are suddenly facing the same temptation that the representatives of the original, old, advanced, western countries, or whatever other appellation of praise they may have been subjected to, are still subjected to. we are within the walls and can look with tolerance at the incomers who try to enter the dreamed castle of the union. we study them, we teach them. fortunately, we in the czech republic have experienced this humiliating lesson and the constant imposition of new, meaningless conditions, quotas and unfair restrictions not so long ago. that's why today we can express our solidarity with both countries. we know that many of the problems that afflict romania and bulgaria today are not of their own free choice. they are the result of being shut out for half a century, as we were, from natural development, from the market economy and free representative democracy. like us, the post-war powers decided to invade the wrong half of europe, and the people of both countries suffered under communist dictatorships. we believe that we in the czech republic will therefore resist the temptation to subject them to further humiliating restrictions on movement, employment and services. it's enough to expose them to the unquestionable western protectorate of the union. i believe that our relationship with them will be the opposite of what we expected from the 15 western countries when we became full members. we are still second-rate member states. i believe that is why we will not make two new countries third-class members. not because, while the european union is hypocritically lecturing romania and bulgaria, two countries with european tradition, culture and values, it is simultaneously playing a dangerous game of accession with turkey, turning a blind eye to its attitude to minorities, democratic rights, the plurality of churches, women's rights, the interpretation of brutal history. i believe that two european countries, romania and bulgaria, will soon become full members.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the community strategic guidelines for cohesion which we are discussing are a very important document which should serve as a basis for the elaboration of the national strategic reference frameworks governing the use of structural assistance in the individual member states. unfortunately, the approval of this document is considerably behind schedule. national materials are already prepared in most countries and, logically, this european document could not be formally used actively in their preparation. this complicates the whole process unnecessarily. i would point out that, given the need to prepare operational programmes and have them approved by the european commission, there is already a slide in programming, which also hinders the possibility of drawing on the structural funds at national level without risk. on the other hand, it should be noted that these strategic principles take account of the vast majority of our comments. i am personally pleased that the irreplaceable role of local authorities, that is to say cities, in the process of improving the competitiveness of the community as a whole is not forgotten. i hope that this urban declaration will not remain on paper and that we will all personally work to ensure that the principle of partnership between central government, regions, municipalities and other bodies is consistently applied in all member states. ladies and gentlemen, however, we still have a lot of work to do in clarifying some of the subtle aspects, such as how to program the urban dimension. in particular, the form of integrated city plans needs to be clarified in the future, so as to avoid misunderstandings and changes in the rules of the game, such as in the release of aid to improve municipally owned water infrastructure in the czech republic. in conclusion, let me thank mrs. krehl for her work.
the last enlargement, which added ten new member states to the european union, has led to a widening of the gap in economic development within the community, a geographical shift of inequalities eastwards, a doubling of socioeconomic disparities and a decline in average gdp. yet it is the new member states that have one of the highest rates of economic growth. with the accession of romania and bulgaria, whose gdp is one third of the current eu average, on the horizon, i believe that the strategic principles for cohesion that we have just discussed are needed now more than ever. european solidarity is already mentioned in the preamble to the treaty on european union, which states that the community strengthens its economic and social cohesion with the aim, in particular, of reducing disparities in the level of development of the various regions. the european union devotes more than a third of its budget to reducing disparities in regional development and inequalities in the well-being of its citizens. through the european union funds, the union contributes to the development of regions lagging behind, the restructuring of industrial areas or the revitalization of neglected urban areas. cohesion policy reform should provide an opportunity for greater efficiency, transparency and political accountability. cohesion policy for the next programming period must be clearer and more transparent, and i personally expect it to be more targeted and more effective. in the case of countries which are beneficiaries of both the cohesion fund and the structural funds, attention should be paid to enlargement, to distinguishing between the different types of activities supported by the individual funds.
today we are talking about progress in the area of freedom, security and justice. but what progress is there if the european commission itself is unable or unwilling to deliver on its commitment to extend the schengen area in 2007. i find it absolutely unacceptable that the citizens of the new ten will not be able to move without checks at the internal borders of the union countries by the promised deadline of october next year. and i find it inexplicable that for two or three more years, they will be legitimized by border police. the commission should realise that it is not a bunch of self-appointed people, but an elected body of this parliament, paid extraordinarily by the taxpayers. if it cannot technically ensure that the conditions of the schengen area are met, then it is incompetent. if she's hiding behind a technical glitch and trying to delay free movement, she's untrustworthy. mr barroso and his commissioners are now hampering the free movement of people, one of the pillars of the european union. they should realise that they are gambling with the citizens' confidence in the european project as such.
in writing. turkey has always been a huge, troubled phenomenon since the middle ages. the most difficult issue today in relations with turkey is the criteria by which to assess the progress achieved. one chapter of the accession negotiations is closed. that's a success, without a doubt. but 28 substantive chapters are still open, not to mention the copenhagen criteria. trouble is everywhere. it starts with the electoral law, through the rights and freedoms of citizens, women or national and religious minorities. the inadequate infrastructure of the eastern part of the country, the tense relations with neighbours, the structure of employment of the population, the police and military procedures in the investigation of crimes, the occupation of part of a member state of the european union. in particular, the implementation of new laws will be a long and complex process. on the other hand, i know personally many educated turks and i know how enthusiastically they have welcomed the opening of talks with the eu. the report on turkey's progress towards accession, unfortunately, after the adoption of a number of amendments which omit the most pressing issues, is not acceptable to the gue/ngl group. we were therefore forced to vote against the adopted wording.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, in protest at your incompetence and ours, i'd prefer not to speak at all. but china needs minerals, it needs oil, it needs markets, it needs water, it needs land. we're watching the chinese colonization of africa. the sudanese government, partner or part of al-qaeda, long-time home of osama, ally of turabi in word and in deed, is carrying out racial cleansing, raping and impregnating tens of thousands of women for the sake of arabism, membership in the league of arab states. the russians are supplying the weapons. the african union mission is at its end. our beautiful african possessions mean two million exiles and half a million dead. what will the council and the commission do to support the proper un chapter vii mission immediately? what are you going to do to finally get a no-fly zone, which is bound by 13 completely useless resolutions? what will you do to end the impunity of all those who rape and kill innocent civilians? i am ashamed that as a member of the committee of inquiry of this parliament i have taken part of the responsibility by visiting darfur and abkhazia. and all i can do is talk, if you'll excuse the expression. commissioner, go look into the eyes of the young woman who is holding the baby and ask her what the baby's name is. and she can't answer you, and she says, "i don't know". because the baby is born of rape, as you yourself will feel.
ladies and gentlemen, foreign direct investment is an important tool for the development of any country. i come from a new member state of the european union, and i can just confirm that it was foreign direct investment that has been a significant contributor to the current dynamic economic growth that we are seeing in central and eastern europe. and the same is true of india. india is the third most attractive country in the world for foreign investment inflows, and europe is one of the most important sources of foreign investment inflows in india. in 2004, this amounted to more than eur 1 billion. however, despite this positive trend and many improvements, it cannot be overlooked that foreign investors still face significant challenges in india. they have to contend with municipal, regional and state bureaucracy, with opaque and often changing regulations, and in many sectors, such as agriculture, they cannot invest at all. i would therefore urge the indian authorities and indian politicians to ease the current situation and further facilitate access to the indian market for foreign investors. as the success of central and eastern europe shows, it is not just the investors who benefit, but the countries in which they invest, in our case india.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am a little concerned about the nanotechnology issue, because we are witnessing that the original plans for this area are not being implemented in the budgetary perspective. we are seeing a 38% cut in expenditure, and although the 140 million a year in the previous framework plan was replaced by 600 million a year, which is a significant leap forward, the momentum the european union has in this area is still less than we would like. while we still have an excellent position in basic research and publications, and the european union has a lead over the united states in this area, the united states accounts for 42% of patents worldwide, compared with 36% for the european union. and we also see that the pace of the european union is slower in terms of products that are coming onto the market. federal spending in the united states is roughly as much as the entire european union spends on nanotechnology and nanoscience, and individual member countries in the european union have different levels of spending. in fact, only the republic of ireland has a per capita gdp higher than that of the united states. i would also like to emphasise that in 2001, when a public opinion survey was carried out on a sample of 16 000 inhabitants, it was found that awareness of nanotechnologies, as far as the population of the european union is concerned, is also very low. so i'd like to mention two classics that i'd like to quote here. the first is johann wolfgang von goethe, in whose faust mephisto says: "only despise reason and knowledge and i will have you unconditionally right away". i do not want to take on the role of mephisto, but i would caution against cutting spending in this area compared with other countries. and the second classic i would like to quote, and i hope he will be pleased to be absent, is günter verheugen, who just last week mentioned the ten priorities of the european union in this area, and one of them is, of course, staff training, investing in education, educating the public to be prepared for new technologies. without this change, we will not go any further, because public opinion in the european union is often not favorable to these technologies, and of course some of the security concerns are exaggerated. as an example of this exaggeration, i can also cite some of the amendments prepared for the report by the green group, in particular amendments nos 3 and 6, which would mean practically eliminating the entire framework for progress in nanoscience and nanotechnology research under the seventh framework programme. it is unacceptable that this complex research programme should be dismantled, with the assumption that investment can only be made in areas where human and environmental exposure is excluded. i think it is important to give security guarantees to the european public, to the european citizens, but it is not possible to dismiss the whole complex research plan in this way. i would say that it is also extremely important for us to emphasize the social aspect of nanotechnology. they're a great opportunity for new jobs, they're an opportunity to increase investment in people, to also strengthen the entire field of medicine and health sciences. in this respect, nanotechnology presents a great opportunity. their reach is comparable to the challenge of microelectronics in the 1960's, 1970's and 1980's. like microelectronics, nanotechnology is penetrating every aspect of human life. they also have major implications for the energy sector. they mean the possibility of new materials that are lighter and more reliable, more durable. this also means that transport machinery can be designed to be less energy intensive. the material and energy requirements of nanotechnology can be significantly reduced. it is a challenge, ladies and gentlemen, which we must meet in order to guarantee the future of european companies in global competition. ladies and gentlemen, this is my opening statement, and i look forward to the discussion. i would like to thank not only commissioners potočnik and verheugen for their cooperation in this context, but also my distinguished colleagues from the committee on industry, research and energy and the directorate-general for industry, mr renz tomellini, who is a specialist in this field.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the european parliament is giving attention to the issue of nanoscience and nanotechnology. as the report we are discussing today, which i want to commend and support, documents, we are talking about a technology that will be a key element of the 21st century. it is therefore right that nanoscience and nanotechnology are among the priorities to which the european union wishes to devote attention. but there are a number of positive and negative aspects. the first of these is the generally positive support that promising technologies are receiving across the whole of parliament. the report well characterizes the extraordinary opportunity that lies ahead in the development of nanotechnology. so far, europe has basically kept pace with the world. as i have just seen in person during my visit to liberec in the north of the czech republic, the results of the work of the technical university and one of the local companies are literally world-leading in the research and application of nanotechnology, including the production of a unique production facility. i am deliberately emphasising that this is one of a number of smaller czech cities and not the scientific potential of centres such as prague or brno. so i think that nanotechnology is an opportunity for smaller countries, for smaller entities in general. the development of nanoscience and nanotechnology needs strong support not only in the czech republic but throughout europe. the rest of the world is already aware of it. who do you think is among the most frequent and active users of information about the results of the work of scientists and technicians at liberec? of course, these are people from other continents, mainly north america, but also southeast asia. this is also linked to one of the negative aspects of the development of nanotechnology in europe, which i believe is the lack of intellectual property protection, especially in relation to the application of research results to other fields. another obstacle is the lack of sufficient, i would say mainly complicated and therefore difficult to obtain financial support. the report also notes that the united states already spends 37% of global spending on this sector, while europe spends only 24%, which is also less than japan's. and the planned funding under the seventh framework programme for injections into nanoscience and nanotechnology in the us is again lagging behind. in conclusion, i would like to mention one more very positive phenomenon that i have personally experienced. nanoscience and nanotechnology are among the most promising fields for young people interested in science and technology and university studies. let us not miss this opportunity to give a new impetus to the development of science and technology in the european union. let's be there when the prefix "nano" means "dwarf" or "elf" and the giant of the 21st century is born.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me thank the rapporteur for a report which very well sums up the trends in this dynamic area of science and technology. the changes that nanotechnology will bring are comparable to, and in many ways will surpass, the major technological revolutions of the past. the opportunities that are opening up before us present a number of challenges. some of them are answered by the message, others are left unanswered. the text presented shows that our global partners and competitors are aware of the importance of nanotechnologies and related research. this is evident from the amounts devoted to this research and the conditions they create for it. in contrast, the european commission's intention to increase the amount of funding from the seventh framework programme for nanotechnology has largely failed, as the rapporteur notes, comparing public and private resources in europe, the united states and japan for this purpose. europe lags behind the united states in both creating a competitive infrastructure and adopting intellectual property standards. patenting of inventions in nanoscience and nanotechnology is slowly developing in europe and the report therefore highlights the need for reform of the european patent system, which would also benefit science and innovation in general. unfortunately, there is no time horizon. one aspect of the use of nanotechnology is missing from the report. it's about possible military applications. so far, these technologies are not subject to any restrictions, which could be revenged in the future. the free transfer of these technologies, thomas van der molen compares in his report to giving a nuclear reactor to all countries, with none using it to develop nuclear weapons. i think in the near future we need to take this dimension of nanotechnology into account and address this issue.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, the members of the czech republic's ods have today voted to reject the hiltrud breyer report on the prospects for women in international trade. this report is left-wing feminist agitation that can't do any good. we reject the gender equality thesis and all the demands that arise from this flawed approach to human society. we look at people as individual citizens with individual rights and freedoms guaranteed by the state, not as a collective gender-determined group with collective rights. equality of citizens before the law has long been a reality in all the countries of the union, and all women and men have freedom in the countries of the union and use it in different ways at their own discretion, for example by giving more attention to children than men. the demand for gender equality is in direct conflict with freedom, and therefore we cannot in any way support the introduction of quotas for women on the boards of public limited companies, as the report calls for. we also believe, unlike the author, that the liberalisation of world trade brings new opportunities for men and women around the world to work and to prosper. for these reasons, we voted against the report.
that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the use of passenger name record (pnr) data.
ladies and gentlemen, i strongly disagree that the council and the commission have accepted commissioner mandelson's proposal and imposed these days high import duties on footwear from vietnam and china. i regard this measure as short-term anti-liberal protectionism which will certainly not help the competitiveness of european industry. it only prolongs the coma for a while for those manufacturers who are stubbornly resisting the reality of the global economy. by imposing import duties, politicians have paradoxically punished those entrepreneurs who understood the rules of the global economy in time, flexibly moved production to asia and are able to survive in the new market conditions. the imposition of import duties is consequently directed against consumers. the customs will increase the price of a pair of shoes by up to seven euros. i want to see which of the prime ministers or commissioners will go in person and explain to families with more children that when they buy expensive shoes, they are not buying better quality, but they are paying for inefficient shoe companies.
i strongly object to the view that anti-dumping is harmful protectionism. the opposite is true. there is nothing worse for europe than being benevolent towards unfair trade practices from third countries and at the same time keeping a very strict gauge on european producers. no wonder european companies are shifting production to asia, where they can take advantage of low social and environmental standards to sell cheap but low-quality shoes, textiles, electronics, and other goods at huge margins to europeans, who then lose their jobs at home. countries that have joined the union respect trade rules but cannot impose legitimate sanctions on third countries themselves. that is a matter for the union. that is why it is so important that the commission has acted this time. i'm just bothered by the inconsistency. indeed, chinese and vietnamese children's and sports footwear are also produced at dumped prices. its exclusion from these measures simply because sports shoes are no longer produced in europe or even because poor quality children's shoes help poor families is a sign of european weakness. the previous exclusion of children's footwear, which is proven to be harmful to children's health, was a gross lack of professionalism on the part of the european commission. i think that this should be a matter of mutual surveillance of the rules agreed upon, and not a concession to european wholesale trade, which sometimes finds inconsistency convenient. we all know that it's just a few euros that get lost inside a pretty thick cushion of margin without the consumer knowing. the council vote showed that governments have not a principle but specific commercial interests which differ on the north/south axis. i hope that we will at least defend the principles of fair competition in this parliament, regardless of who is in favour of it in europe. we have a duty to support the commission in this and to warn the council against such a policy. in conclusion, i would like to ask the commission again to look at the compulsory certification of children's shoes sold in europe, regardless of who makes them. shoes are supposed to be healthy, whether they're made in china or japan.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me draw your attention to the fundamental problem facing the czech republic in drawing on the cohesion fund for the modernisation of water and waste management. to meet the requirements of the wastewater treatment directive, we need to invest more than eur 4 billion by 2010, which is more than 10% of our annual state budget. i'm sure we can agree that we can't do without european union subsidies. i do not understand, therefore, how it is possible that for a year and a half now the commission has been carrying projects to bring clean water to czech municipalities, projects submitted by our water companies on the basis of an operating model in accordance with community legislation, projects that commission officials refuse to approve on the basis of their subjective feelings and thus try to dictate to us, the elected representatives of the cities, what contracts we should conclude and how to deal with the situation in the water sector. let us remember that the czech republic lies at the heart of the european union and that it is here that the main european rivers begin to flow into the surrounding countries. this is not just a problem for us, but also a european problem.
ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the previous speaker, mrs juknevičiene. we often talk about human rights in third countries in this forum, but we rarely have the opportunity to strengthen the protection of human rights in our own member states. the establishment of the human rights agency is, in my view, a certain step in the right direction. our citizens certainly have the right to factual, comparable and objective information on the state of human rights in their member states, but also in europe as a whole. i would like to ask a few key questions, despite my support in principle for the establishment of this agency. firstly, as a former member of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, whose work i greatly respect, i would like to ask how practical cooperation with this agency will be ensured, which will not lead to duplication of work but will be complementary. secondly, since the proposed agency envisages a form of a dedicated monitoring and evaluation agency, i wonder how it will be ensured that the political definition of these thematic areas does not neglect topics which are politically unacceptable to some states. thirdly, i would like to stress the importance of the fact that the largest part of the budget, at least two thirds, is devoted to the programme and not to administrative and staffing matters.
for the group gue/ngl commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciate the comprehensive approach taken by mrs pack to this report. i just want to highlight a few aspects of the subject. one of the risks of modern civilization is the excessive one-sidedness and specialisation of education, which breaks down the whole picture of the world and at the same time limits the application of man in labour markets, especially where dynamic changes are taking place due to various causes. the world has changed so much that the traditional notions of a once-for-all education that guarantees a long-term job and a smooth progression to retirement have long since been replaced. people need to be able to respond more quickly to developments in their environment, and individual european training programmes should enable them to do so. lifelong learning contributes to the ability of individuals to keep up with scientific and technological developments and to understand the world as a whole. in parallel with the development of educational programmes, care must be taken to ensure that lifelong learning is not a luxury reserved for the privileged but is accessible to all, regardless of social status and gender.
i regret to say that the lahti summit represents a missed opportunity both in the european union's relations with russia and in the energy understanding between the member states. although european politicians have shown, under pressure from the media, that they are aware of the need to speak with one voice on energy issues, i fear that this is an apparent unity and that there is still no real consensus on the content of the energy policy. the fact that some eu countries prefer to negotiate their energy security in a bilateral framework, regardless of the european union as a whole, is evidence of this. i would like to point out that the energy issue is not only ecological or economic, but above all geostrategic. europe is dependent on external energy sources. failure to align our interests and our approach will weaken our bargaining position in the global energy market, deepen our vulnerability and seriously undermine the authority of us europeans as foreign policy actors. our ability to promote values like democracy, the rule of law, or the rules of a transparent marketplace in the world will be limited. i would therefore like to call on the council and the commission to take concrete steps to prepare and implement a european energy strategy, which is a possible way out of this situation and would lay the foundations for a common energy policy of the european union. a strategy that would define our energy objectives and the means to achieve them, set out clearly the mechanism for joint decision-making on energy projects and for communication within and outside the european union, and strengthen the element of solidarity on energy issues. i am convinced that the energy question will be the key test of the accessibility of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than two years since we joined the european union. but, paradoxically, controls at the internal borders of the european union continue. we can't just sit back and watch. the technical and legal problems with the introduction of sis ii, which the european commission is only pointing out at the last moment, are of little or no interest to me as a representative of the czech citizens. the new member states and their citizens must become full members of the european union as soon as possible, with equal rights. in this context, any delay in our entry into the schengen area is completely unjustifiable. that is why i voted in favour of the coelho reports on the schengen information system, because their smooth and rapid adoption is the fulfillment of the four fundamental freedoms and thus the very meaning of the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30.
the next item is the joint debate on the council and commission statements on the export of toxic waste to africa, the question for oral answer to the council on combating environmental crime, crime and sanctions by karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0067/2006 - b6-0438/2006) and the question for oral answer to the commission on combating environmental crime, crime and sanctions by karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0068/2006 - b6-0439/2006).
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) and two motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5). the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall inform the european parliament and the council of the outcome of the consultation.
the next item is the report by mrs véronique de keyser, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the european parliament's recommendation to the council on the conclusion of the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the syrian arab republic, of the other part (2006/2150 (ini) - a6-0334/2006).
madam president, commissioner, the decision to renew the ratification of the association agreement with syria is a strategic decision. the situation in the middle east is more empty than full. the lack of democratization in egypt is fuelling the growth of radical forces, lebanon is falling apart under the hands of the palestinians, and the chances of a state in palestine have disappeared for internal reasons. since the summer attack on lebanon, the framework of relations between the european union and israel has been breaking down. european policy is missing. but what is also missing is israeli politics, israel is falling more and more into its regionalism, it is no longer able to solve problems with a supervision. as the recent decisions in iraq show, the united states has no serious policy in the region either. the end of the double detention has clearly strengthened iran. iran is the only actor with a relevant active policy. his go-between is syria. the european parliament cannot take any relevant action in relation to iran. what is needed is a concept of the eu, the us and the russian federation. what we can do in this house is try to actively pull syria out of its submissive role as a mediator. it's called strategy. the tactic is to follow the economic and international offers unanimously and politically, european, jointly and firmly. we must demand the same from syria, just as strongly and unequivocally. it's not about appeasement, the key is that syria commits to the gradual lifting of martial law, the creation of a civil society with full freedom of expression, respect for the rights of minorities, the transition to a democratic political system, the building of an open market economy. syria must of course cooperate in the investigation of hariri's assassination. syria must pursue a constructive path towards a peace process solution, cease arming hezbollah, support palestinian armed groups, comply with resolutions 1559 and 1701, end the withdrawal of all security forces from lebanon and establish diplomatic relations. the association agreement is not our property. it needs to become the property of the syrians. it's up to us to make it a syrian road map for transformation. i ask you, the commission and especially the council, to actively support and cooperate with our strategy and tactics.
madam member, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you to everyone who contributed to this report. posting of workers is one of the major issues that the european union must address in order to achieve its objective of completing the internal market with the free movement of persons and services. i am honoured to be able to speak on this subject here before hundreds of my colleagues at this remarkable hour of the day. the european commission's communication aims to liberalise the free movement of services and workers and to remove unnecessary restrictions, protectionism and unfair competition currently practised by some member states. but mrs schroedter's report goes against that. the rapporteur places undue emphasis on the protection of workers and consequently opposes the freedom to post workers through protectionist measures. the current practice places workers from the new member states at a severe disadvantage. enterprises from the old member states can provide services not only in their country of origin but anywhere else in the european union market. on the other hand, for enterprises from the new member states, this approach is constantly made impossible or complicated by the application of transitional periods and a series of administrative barriers and protectionist measures which in fact prevent posted workers from being competitive and from providing their services freely on the market under the same conditions as workers from the home country. we still hear the symbolic fear of the polish plumber. the report by mrs schroedter tramples on the fundamental values on which the european union was built and is certainly not conducive to our common objective of completing the single internal market. i therefore call on you, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to vote against this report.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly right and necessary to monitor the observance of human rights, whether in tibet, guatemala or uzbekistan, because these rights are indivisible in the era of globalisation. however, given the discussions and initiatives initiated and carried out by the european parliament in this regard, i believe that this body is seeking to address possible human rights violations and related problems elsewhere in the world rather than within the eu itself. we are left with little concern, for example, by the shameful situation of so-called non-russian citizens in latvia, child labour and prostitution in some member states, the disastrous state of the media, the criminalisation and persecution of the left in the czech republic, or the unprecedented rise of poverty and right-wing radicalism in germany. all the more reason to be concerned with uzbekistan, tibet or perhaps belarus, china and so on. i would venture to say that the conservative majority is deliberately and masterfully leading the european parliament into the role of a kind of docile watchdog, which does not bite much behind its fence, but barks all the more at its neighbours. the problems that plague eu member states should always be our priority.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, air traffic over europe is gradually coming up against the constraints of a high concentration of airports and the need to deal with the problems of an ever-increasing number of aircraft. some problems have been addressed in the past by international agreements of icao, others by regulations adopted at different levels. air traffic is also regulated by, inter alia, the international convention on air traffic management at medium altitude over central europe, which has not yet entered into full force. the sesar programme should allow for significant progress in this area. i would like to take this opportunity to ask two questions. one of them is the question of project financing. here i think that the involvement of private capital should be approached very carefully, as this is one of the key projects in the area. i think it's important that a substantial part of the funding doesn't come from the private sector. rather, the source may be fees from eurocontrol and the budget of the european union. the second important and long-standing issue is the definition of the parts of the fleet to which this new air traffic management system will apply. there's still the question of separating the aircraft and the ultralight aircraft. for many years, the definition in europe has been different from that in the united states, and i recommend that this limit be defined by the 600 kg of the machine in the case of the joint undertaking. i believe that this unification of definitions will be of benefit to the matter in future negotiations concerning not only air traffic but air transport as a whole. in conclusion, my group is very keen to support the sesar project.
ladies and gentlemen, the mps of the civic democratic party elected in the czech republic today voted to reject the report on the proposal for a council regulation laying down rules for the voluntary differentiation of direct payments by the rapporteur lutz goepel. the report rejects the proposal to increase the flexibility of the common agricultural policy and its greater link to specific national conditions put forward by the commission on the basis of an agreement with the european council. the european parliament's position is absurd and therefore we cannot support it in any way. the common agricultural policy currently discriminates against all new member states, including the czech republic. the rapporteur's reference to the principle of non-discrimination is therefore a mockery of all farmers in the new member states. discrimination against these farmers is now real. this year, these farmers are receiving only 35% of the subsidies in direct payments, compared with 100% for farmers in the old member states, which is why we voted as we did.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place at the december part-session. (the sitting was suspended at 6.10 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the new framework strategy for multilingualism, i welcome the conclusions which aim to promote and respect linguistic diversity, which is one of the fundamental principles of the eu, especially in view of the fact that there is an undeniable tendency to reduce the number of official languages, citing the absurd need to save on the costs of interpretation and translation services. yes, promoting multilingualism is an important factor in cultural, economic and social integration, but it is not the main factor, it has been and is the solution to social differences and problems that unfortunately cannot be satisfactorily managed. i would also like to emphasise and support the view that the eu must strictly respect the principle of subsidiarity in its language policy, as it should in other areas. language policy cannot be allowed to become a source of conflict between the eu and its member states and citizens, as such a possibility does exist.
ladies and gentlemen, if the services directive is adopted in this badly compromised form, we can sadly say that we have thus at least partially fulfilled the treaty of rome. considering that it was signed almost 50 years ago, it is a rather thin result. it is a political failure that, in the debate on the directive, fear of international competition and concern about so-called social standards prevailed over the vision of a prosperous union with the free movement of persons and services. it is also a failure of politicians to forget that the source of economic growth is competition and that social standards are a bonus to prosperity, not its creator. i am convinced that by abandoning the pillar of the directive, the principle of the country of origin, in a populist and essentially cowardly way, we have lost the chance to raise the standard of living of our citizens dramatically. we've missed an opportunity to increase service, lower prices and create jobs.
today, i believe, we will pass a directive that will remove from the service business the bureaucracy and discrimination that stem from mistrust between countries and mistrust of one another's competitiveness. the trial revealed how deep the rifts between the states are. today we are crossing a bridge that is, after three years, a hard-won compromise in parliament and in the council. i believe that the proposals of the left that would make the bridge a swinging bridge will be rejected. the directive has left so many kinds of services out that it seems that the directive doesn't even make sense, but it doesn't. it's still gonna bring about a major change in the rules. states will have to abolish all discriminatory rules for business in services. a single point of contact will be established to handle all the formalities for permanent establishment or for the temporary provision of services in another country. the authorisations will have to be transparent and available to everyone. it will no longer be possible to refuse permission without giving a reason or even to not respond at all for many months. if the office does not respond within the time limit, the authorisation shall be granted. businesses save time and money by not having to hand over unnecessary documents in originals or certified copies and translations. no one will be forced to take out insurance in the country of business or to make unacceptable deposits. adequate documents authorising home-based business will be recognised. the information will be mandatory, even electronically. it will be prohibited to compel an entrepreneur to register or establish a seat or office where he provides services only temporarily. the authorities will start to cooperate across borders and the systems will be interoperable. there could be more, but this too is of great importance for the completion of the internal market. after years of stomping around, today is the day to build a bridge across the trenches of european mistrust, a bridge to free services without discrimination, which will give europeans hundreds of thousands of new jobs and better quality services at the same time. that is why the union exists. in closing, i want to thank the reporters, especially malcolm. (applause from the right)
this was the slogan used by the european trade unions and the commission to protest against the original proposal for a directive, which had been inherited from prodi. today, after more than two and a half years of negotiations and compromise, i can, as a former union member, raise my hand in support of the motion. evelyne gebhardt and the people who worked on the final version of the directive have a lot of credit for making the original scarecrow acceptable. to the unhappy, i'd say it could have been worse. i am pleased to remind you that the success of the directive will depend on the goodwill of all of us. the bill we're passing is not without its flaws, but in life and politics, it's more true that you can't have it all. i thank the european parliament for the result. many dissatisfied czechs will remember the czech proverb that the wolf ate and the goat remained whole, but that does not change my optimism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the new framework strategy for multilingualism is good news. the responsibility for implementing this policy lies with the individual member states. some member states are currently making changes to their education systems. learning foreign languages as a means of communication, as well as learning about the diversity of cultures, is an essential part of this. in order to ensure that the current level of language proficiency is taken into account as far as possible in the training plans of the different systems, the european language proficiency indicator should be clearly promoted. the clear transparency of language examination and certification systems will also increase motivation to learn foreign languages, which is an advantage for their graduates in their future professional careers. the report is an important contribution to strengthening foreign language teaching, improving the competitiveness of the workforce and also improving communication between citizens and the european institutions. that is also why i supported this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to explain my vote on the proposed recommendation for a directive on services in the internal market. first of all, i would like to express my conviction that it is good that the european institutions have succeeded, after more than three years of protracted negotiations, in reaching a decision on progress in the liberalisation of the free movement of services, progress which will create more than half a million new jobs and support the economic growth of our countries. although the final form of the directive does not fully correspond to my initial ideas on the liberalisation of services in the internal market of the european union, it still represents a significant added value for all stakeholders and i therefore supported it. it will also allow traders and smes easier access to the markets of other member states. the compromise reached in the council is very fragile and there is no point in risking it. i therefore did not vote for the individual amendments concerning sensitive issues such as the link to labour or criminal law, the definition of social services, screening obligations, etc. these issues will certainly be the subject of further negotiations in the future.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, in europe there is often talk of a crisis of public confidence in the european project, in european politics. however, in the area of security and defence policy, this scepticism does not apply. on the contrary, opinion polls show that more than two thirds of the european public support this policy and believe that risks and dangers such as terrorism, organised crime, regional conflicts or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction need to be addressed jointly in europe. the report also calls for a common approach, for the strengthening of the common elements of the european security and defence policy. i support this call, this effort to create a security and defence union. i consider the proposals to create, for example, a common market in the development, production and purchase of arms, the proposals to create a common system of communication and intelligence, the proposals to create a european civil protection force and many others to be a step in the right direction. europe needs a common approach to overcome the security risks and threats it faces, and mr von wogau's report suggests this approach in an excellent and realistic way.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12:00. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the oral question on the return of varosha to its legal residents as part of the package of measures to end the isolation of turkish cypriots, tabled by mr marcin libicki on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-0106/2006 - b6-0446/2006).
ladies and gentlemen, cyprus is today, and has been for a long time, divided into three parts. three percent of the territory is occupied by british military bases. no one here knows what's going on, but they're certainly a place where many foreigners find good employment. the general affairs council asks the commission to promote direct trade with the turkish community in cyprus in connection with the opening up of the previously displaced part of famagusta, or varosha in turkish. as the european parliament has discussed the release of an amount for the development of the northern part of cyprus, with particular reference to the reconstruction of infrastructure, it is appropriate to ask if famagusta belongs to the northern part of the island, when the rehabilitation work will be started there with the above-mentioned funds and when it will be opened to the indigenous population. if it belongs to the south, when will it be opened so that the original inhabitants can devote themselves to the rebuilding of the city. or is there a third possible interpretation, commissioner? and the problem is to be solved by british troops located on the island?
this debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on ethiopia.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on bangladesh.
author: ladies and gentlemen, bangladesh is one of the most overcrowded and poorest countries in the world. the division of bengal into two sects in the 1940's certainly did not make the difficult situation any easier. the subsequent war of independence with pakistan only contributed to the deepening of extreme poverty not only in the countryside. the country's constitution has a special mechanism for putting power in the hands of the interim government in preparation for elections. the great success of micro-credit is recognized worldwide. less well known is that success in this heavily islamic environment has been achieved mainly through the involvement of women. as in any heavily overpopulated and very poor country, we see great problems here in the lack of infrastructure and religious and ethnic intolerance. i believe that these problems can be effectively tackled and that secular traditions will prevail. a major issue in every election, and not just in developing countries, is who is eligible to vote. the problem here is compounded by the fact that many of the inhabitants are illiterate. in addition to the factually correct electoral lists, there is an important space for the presentation of the electoral programmes of the candidate entities. it is no wonder that the draft resolution emphasises this. i would like to emphasize here that i do not think that the recognition or non-recognition of any state in the world can play any role as a measure of the democratic nature of journalists. in any case, freedom of the press is closely linked to the democratic competition of ideas and party agendas. we can't just limit this to the election cycle. similarly, eliminating terrorist groups is probably the task of all governments, and there is no time limit. the more difficult question is how to define a terrorist and how to fight terrorists in a democratic society. at the last meeting of the south asian cooperation group, which i had the honour of chairing, the participants expressed their conviction that it was possible to prepare and conduct genuine democratic elections in bangladesh. the comments contained in the motion for a resolution were made in the assembly i chaired, and i believe that the deployment of a european parliament observation mission will also contribute to the democratic conduct of the elections. the gue/ngl group supports the motion for a resolution under discussion, and i believe that we must support the democratization process in bangladesh, including these elections, in the most democratic way possible.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on iran.
author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today there is no doubt that neoconservative policies, including the doctrine of so-called global interventions, have failed fatally. it failed in iraq, palestine, lebanon, afghanistan, and in its relationship with iran. the us 'war on terror' has strengthened iran's power and influence in the middle east, and unless stability is established in the region, iran's power will continue to grow, including its efforts to counter western pressure. and the more the west threatens iran, the more it will support iran's radical forces. it is not to be overlooked that the only country in the region that has retained a certain political pluralism and has undergone significant internal changes is iran. if there is a country in the world that should not be driven to extremism from outside, it is iran. if there is one regime that should not be motivated by the west to acquire nuclear weapons, it is iran. but above all, american and british politics, instead of sensitive political negotiations, have been doing this for a long time. of course, iran should emphasize its commitment to international obligations. but this parliament too should be reminded once again of its commitment to promote human rights everywhere and without discrimination. i therefore conclude by saying that the european union's member states, and hence its territory, are facing such serious social problems with a human rights dimension that the debate on this subject should also concern those member states.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately.
the next item is the vote. (for results and other voting details, see minutes)
the vote is closed.
i adjourn the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 5.05 p.m.)
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, it would be very bold to call the last summit in finland a success, but we have contributed to it. our so-called solidarity has not helped us at all. russia needs the union, but the union needs russia just as much. but if we go more and more blatantly along the path of russophobia, russia will continue to work pragmatically with the no less pragmatic members of the union, which are its largest economic partners, namely germany, the netherlands or italy and others, which is happening right now and is not surprising. we will not impose the eu's energy deal on russia if we prefer the interest of european companies to a share of the profits from russian energy supplies, and we will not reconcile the eu's mutually beneficial and much-needed relations with russia if, for example, the seats of the eu's members of parliament are literally empty during official negotiations between the eu and russian parliamentary delegations. the blind and deaf are not getting along.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11:00. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the commission's statement on the economic and social consequences of restructuring in the automotive sector in europe.
this debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by hélène flautre and edward mcmillan-scott, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide (european instrument for democracy and human rights) (com (2006) 0354 - c6-0206/2006 - 2006/0116 (cod)) (a6-0376/2006).
thank you, commissioner. that concludes the debate. the vote will be in december. written statements (rule 142)
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the czech republic is not the only country to be shaken by the debate on the issue of increasing excise duties on beer, which was discussed at yesterday's eu council of finance ministers. the taxation of beer and alcohol in general must be seen in context. we czechs consider beer to be an integral part of our national cuisine, as important as fine wine is to the french. just as many of my french-speaking colleagues cannot imagine a good lunch without a glass of red wine, i cannot imagine our traditional lunch without half a liter of quality czech beer. the czech veto yesterday on the increase in excise duties on beer should therefore be interpreted not only as a call for a comprehensive solution to the problem of taxation of alcoholic beverages, but also as an attempt to solve all european problems in principle on the basis of equality. ladies and gentlemen, if we are to combat the negative effects of alcohol, let's introduce the same taxation system for all alcoholic beverages. if we want to revive european agriculture, let's reform the common agricultural policy and support all farmers equally. if we are to fight terrorism together, let us ensure that all member states are equally involved in this fight.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, as i look around me, i have the impression that one of murphy's laws is being fulfilled, that the more important the issue, the less attention is paid to it. and this is despite the fact that commissioner potočnik, colleague buzek and all his collaborators have done an excellent job. they were among the first to take account of the needs of the new member states, where science and research are deeply underfunded. but still, one of the challenges that we face is to focus more resources where there is a multiplier effect, as in the case of nanoscience and nanotechnology, which have been somewhat reduced compared to the original intentions. but what we need to do the most work on is a new media policy to raise the profile of science and scientists in society and to promote the pioneering spirit in america referred to as the pioneering spirit and to make the seventh framework programme the flagship of the lisbon strategy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank my colleagues, in particular mr buzko, for their work on the report and the amendments to the seventh framework programme, and other colleagues for their work on specific programmes, in particular the specific programme for direct actions of the joint research centre, where i am the shadow rapporteur. at a time when some 25% of all european union legislation has a technical or scientific basis, the role of the joint research centre is crucial. as part of the european commission, this institution is responsible for preparing the scientific basis for legislative proposals, and therefore it is necessary to ensure high quality research and adequate funding. i also regard the adjustment of the rules for participation in the seventh framework programme as a success, where the rules for submission have been simplified, especially for university research. i hope that this reduction in administrative barriers will translate into a better use of the potential of science and research in europe.
so i hear we have a reach deal? instead of innovating, our entrepreneurs will now be hammering their way through the thick of a 600-page regulation. europe as a whole has once again become less competitive, so that we can once again lament the failure of the lisbon agenda in the european parliament. a re-regulated europe will be much easier to compete with any competitor from countries that have not bought into the nonsense called reach. reach is a gift to our competitors. but even within the eu, reach is a gift, albeit a little expensive, to big businesses, to big rich countries. while the costs of the regulation are borne by the german giant, they are entirely offset by the costs of a medium-sized enterprise in the czech republic, for which they are higher than its average profit. reach will destroy small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the new member states; however, these enterprises employ more than 80% of the population. reach thus becomes a sophisticated tool for internal competition within the union and a tool for domination by the big and the rich over the poor and the small. hence the sudden touching agreement over this stupid regulation.
i noticed that some colleagues were signalling that there was no interpretation. it was not a mistake on the part of our interpreters. in her contributions ms de brún usually uses irish, which is not yet an official language in this house. that situation will change next year.
russian prime minister chernomyrdin once said, "we tried to do it the best we could, and it turned out as usual". this is also the case with this standard, which in its current form is against the lisbon strategy, it is in favour of the biggest corporations who accept it in the hope of controlling the market, it is harmful to small and medium-sized enterprises. even the principle of data sharing, which is right, is going to come up against the fact that there are no sanctions at all in this matter. there is a risk of job losses in countries like ours and, ultimately, problems in related sectors. i think there are some people here who will be happy with that standard. aldous huxley once said that happiness is a byproduct, like coke. it's going to be similar in this case, and if my colleague langen said that it looks like our groups have a majority, just more similar standards and we'll have a majority.
the compromise reached is neither a disaster for european industry on the one hand, nor a missed opportunity to improve the health protection of half a billion europeans. it is a demonstration of the very strong will of members and 25 countries to find balanced solutions that are a pathway, not a ditch. for this they deserve, not criticism, but great recognition. even in this less administrative version, the regulation will undoubtedly introduce a new bureaucracy, which the union will criticize. it is a natural tribute to the fact that europeans will have what they want, more detailed information on the chemicals in products. let's see how this affects consumer behavior. however, i am convinced that this information, for which a great deal of money has been paid, will provide a new impetus for european research into the development of interesting substituents, thereby ensuring the gradual and natural elimination of various harmful substances from production even where this regulation does not require substitution. doctors will continue to insist on strict control of dangerous substances, and they are right. but nothing is free, and that's why industry is right to defend itself against higher costs. we cannot ignore the impact on competitiveness and unemployment in the union, for which we politicians, not doctors or industry, are responsible. the serious weakness i would like to point out here again is that the new system is only european, not global, and that reach, despite its undoubted benefits, will increase the comparative disadvantage for europe's highly regulated economies in the context of free world trade, and that it will therefore not protect consumers from the risks inherent in third country products, especially when masses of the unemployed buy cheap products legally or illegally. that is why i am appealing to the commission and the 27 countries, because it is our political responsibility to confront european regulations with our ambitions on the global stage. we have a duty to strive to raise environmental, safety and social standards also in manufacturing in third countries, not just in the union.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union is often described as an institution that is incapable of functioning, an institution that, after enlargement, is unable to take the important, effective and necessary decisions that europe needs to take together. i am convinced that today's debate and the subsequent vote on wednesday on the reach directive will prove the opposite. the creation and adoption of reach legislation is a step of not only pan-european but also global significance. in this way, europe is creating clear and transparent rules, clear and fair standards for the registration, evaluation, authorisation and possibly restriction of chemicals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the standards are not applied in the member states, and that the standards are not applied in the member states. the reason is that it is europe, through reach, that will determine the future standards, the standards, but also the direction of the chemical industry in the world. like all legislation, reach is a compromise, a compromise between the chemical industry, consumers, environmentalists and animal welfare advocates. reach also represents a compromise between the representatives of large chemical companies on the one hand and small and medium-sized enterprises on the other. as a representative of the czech republic's middle country, where smes predominate in the production of chemicals, i am convinced that reach will allow these smes to survive and develop well after initial costs have been overcome, including the gradual development of employment. that is why i will raise my hand in the vote on wednesday on the reach directive.
the next item is the joint debate on - recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on development, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation (11944/2/2006 - c60357/2006 - 2004/0220 ((cod)) (rapporteur: gay mitchel) (a6-0448/2006) and - report by david martin on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories (11877/2006 - c60265/2006 - 2006/0807 (cns)) (a6-0430/2006)
madam president, madam commissioner, allow me to thank mr mitchell and the coordinators and to congratulate them on having succeeded in imposing the common moral will of a directly elected parliament. they did it with our support. development cooperation must lead to development, not stagnation, it must lead to the rule of law, to the development of a free economy and the associated pluralistic decision-making and respect for human rights. better economic development, as many nations around the world have shown, is not enough. it's not just about promoting economic openness, rapid economic development in conditions of political stagnation, closed societies, corruption and usurpation of power, in conditions of no rule of law. such economic development leads to serious political and security disruptions and ends in terrorism. we are now in possession of a tool which will enable us, as parliament, to condition, orient and direct development aid so that it can really contribute to meeting the criteria, to genuine development. precise financial conditions, precise controllable financing of development programmes also for non-state beneficiaries and local government is this tool. the european parliament will be able to intervene in the final form of the national strategy papers and in the evaluation of their implementation, which will be an asset for all. as a member of the steering committee of the world movement for democracy, i welcome the possibility of real democratization through our democratically elected parliament. i just want to promise here that i will do everything, as will the other members of this house, to work really effectively with the commission and the council for the full development of the world.
ladies and gentlemen, despite the differences of opinion on the existence of the egf, the itre committee also came to the conclusion that the fund could be an expression of eu solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade. however, i believe that the original commission project, following discussions and compromise proposals in itre, has been better adapted to the needs of most of the member states of the union, including the small ones, and to the conditions of smes. the availability criteria of the fund remain key. unfortunately, the conclusions of the committee on industry, which were unanimously adopted, do not find sufficient support in the document on the establishment of the fund presented today, for example, the lower limit of one thousand redundant workers remains a condition for obtaining financial assistance. the egf is intended to be a form of rapid aid and one of our proverbs says: 'he who gives quickly gives twice'. however, there is no time limit for the commission to decide on the allocation of the fund. personally, i also consider it a bad sign that the egf should only cover compensation for relocation of production outside the eu, even though i know that community law does not allow for any other option. however, in the european parliament and in the commission, i have also noted a similar attitude and double standards in the treatment of the unemployed, which are also criticised by the european trade unions. the proposal for the establishment of the egf under discussion today, unlike the version adopted by the itre committee, does not reflect the conditions of small member states or of smes, which are the backbone of the european economy. therefore, i may not be the only one who will have a problem to support this form of egf unreservedly.
i would continue with mr. voggenhuber's questions. how is it that in some parts of the accession treaty, when confronted with reality, we now find very unfair practices that we have been seeing lately? this is illustrated, for example, by the commission's request to the member states to assess their so-called integration capacity, which is very timely today. the scandalous negotiations on the enlargement of the schengen area, on sugar quotas, are only two small points on the iceberg that reveal the weaknesses of the european union. i agree with him that there are also opportunities to overcome these weaknesses. but once again, it is a matter of the will to negotiate a solution that will suit everyone, instead of the hard and intolerant 'take it or leave it' as we know from our own accession negotiations, and not just the czech republic's. for further enlargement, it is necessary not only to share common values but also to recognise that even those countries which have traditionally been smaller players in europe must be taken seriously with their demands. the principle of solidarity, which is seriously undermined, for example by the reduction of the european union's common budget from 1.24% of gdp to around 1.05% in this budget period, must be reinforced in the future. moreover, it must be stressed that the constitutional treaty cannot be the basis for the further development of the european union. because it's not the constitution or the treaty. you have to be honest with yourself. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. mr president, just one comment: in the context of the enlarged relations with russia mentioned in the report, i am particularly looking forward to the resolution of the problems of human rights and democratisation, for example in the baltic states of the european union.
mr president, i urge the finnish presidency to stop walking around with hot sauce and to schedule for tomorrow's council meeting the debate on the location of the european galileo navigation system. i am led to this request by disturbing news from yesterday's meeting of the transport ministers of the european union of 25. not only did ministers disagree on the seat of the office, but the european council's previous promises were called into question. in this context, i would like to recall the commitment made at the summit three years ago. at that time, the heads of state of the european union made it clear that the agencies to be created would be located in the new countries as a matter of priority. and what is the result? over the past two years, six new agencies have been established in the union. only one of them is based in the new ten, and that's frontex in poland. others ended up in sweden, france, and greece. and now we hear from diplomats that the old member states have secretly agreed that galileo will be based in the territory of the old 15. in addition to the debate on the seat of galileo, i also ask the council to confirm clearly that the three-year-old commitment to locate agencies preferably in new countries means that galileo should be based in the czech republic, malta or slovenia, of course if these countries offer competitive projects. i am convinced that the european union's policy must include respect for and implementation of the conclusions adopted by the european council at its summits. otherwise, the conclusions are just a waste of paper.
ladies and gentlemen, despite some of the pessimistic and depressing views expressed by some of my speakers, i believe that europe has made some progress during the past six months under the finnish presidency. today, for example, we have passed the groundbreaking reach legislation in this parliament, the globalisation fund has been established, the union has responded flexibly and effectively to the crisis in lebanon, and two new countries, romania and bulgaria, will join the european union family of member states on 1 january. are these, ladies and gentlemen, not clear examples of progress and success and proof that the european union, despite the enormous challenges and problems it faces, is capable of a high-quality and efficient existence? yes, the european union needs to make its decision-making mechanisms more efficient and flexible, it needs to adopt the fundamental principles contained in the european constitution, which, i would remind you, has been endorsed by the governments of all 25 member states. i would like to thank finland not only for becoming the 16th country to adopt the constitution, but also for taking the debate on the future of the european constitution further. what we need now, by the way, is a clear statement, a clear statement from the representatives of those countries which have not yet ratified the constitution, from the representatives of countries such as poland, the united kingdom and the czech republic, a clear statement of what they want to do with this document, or when they will ratify it, or if they will not ratify it, what further solutions they propose. i wish we could have had that statement at the european union summit in brussels this week.
the rapporteur of the committee on regional development. madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by praising the work of rapporteur eluned morgan, including the negotiated compromise, which reflects the views of the various political currents in the committees concerned, as well as the lessons learned from practice. as rapporteur for the committee on regional development, i am convinced that the principle of subsidiarity is the main principle for european energy policy-making, and that the specific decisions on the energy mix and the preferences for renewable or nuclear energy must always be taken at member state level, taking into account the relevant geographical, climatic and economic conditions of the region. it is also important to remember that the cheapest energy is the energy we do not have to produce. energy conservation is therefore the way forward. in this context, cities, which account for more than 70% of energy consumption, have a great potential, and the european commission must therefore start a real dialogue on this subject, in particular with cities, but also with other local authorities and their associations.
