i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are hearing from all over the european union about attacks on homosexuals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the fight against homophobia. but, mr frattini, i ask you, is that enough? we are not going to accept that discrimination in the member states is tolerated and that the member states do not implement the anti-discrimination directives. that is why we need to strengthen the political will, and this debate is helping to do that. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. but more must be done! the implementation of the anti-discrimination directives must not be left to chance. and, as i said, the authorities of the member states must be clearly brought to the attention of the kadi when they violate the right to demonstrate by, for example, banning gay parades. the fundamental rights must be strengthened and applied not only in belgium, the netherlands and spain, where the rights of same-sex couples are fully recognised, but throughout the european union. what i have just heard from my colleague, namely that the right to adopt is being attacked, deeply offends me. it is the love and devotion of the parents that determines the flourishing of a child, not sexual orientation. this is the beginning of discrimination, which is punished here, thank god, but unfortunately also supported by powerful advocates, for example in the vatican, which is fuelling even greater outbreaks against homosexuality. i would therefore like to conclude by saying that morality is a private matter for citizens. but justice is what we have to defend here in parliament, and five groups are doing that. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i wonder if i will ever see homosexuality accepted and lived as a completely normal sexuality. i wonder if there will be a time when politicians can no longer make statements that discriminate against homosexual people, and i wonder when same-sex partnerships will be recognized as equal partnerships. the reduction of homosexual couples to purposeful communities that indulge in meaningless sexuality - this is the definition of the pope - is inhumane and has nothing to do with the reality of homosexual couples. discrimination and exclusion of homosexual lifestyles starts in the minds and does not end with us passing a policy. the events in poland and the recent statements by an italian minister are not failures or lapses, but the expression of a state of mind. the fight against homophobia is an educational mission. the year 2007 is to be the year of anti-discrimination. the commission is invited to give the same priority to combating homophobia in its activities as to combating discrimination on grounds of sex, race or religion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am disappointed in your speech, mr frattini, because you are backing down and saying: 'only if rights are violated will we intervene.' but when the fundamental principles of the european union are violated, we do nothing. you said that indirectly! because the fundamental right to sexuality and sexual orientation is also in the treaty. where this right is officially violated, as in poland, where these people are subjected to massive verbal discrimination by leading politicians and, if they participate in these demonstrations, are persecuted and injured; the commission is looking at this and saying: 'we do not need to intervene here because european law is not being violated. that is precisely what you said in your written reply to my question, and that, mr frattini, is not possible! what is happening in poland no longer meets the copenhagen criteria and the basic principles of this european union. we must therefore make it clear at european level that this is unacceptable and must be changed as soon as possible. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the rapporteur, mr catania, has presented the european parliament's opinion on the commission's report on citizenship of the union in a very simple and moving way. it is limited to extending citizenship to non-eu citizens residing in the eu, for example by requiring that foreigners and stateless persons be granted the right to vote and stand as a candidate. third country nationals would be granted the rights of union citizens while retaining the rights in their home country. we could, for example, construct the case whereby an american who has been in the eu for five years could, following mr catania, participate in the elections to the european parliament or be elected as a member and at the same time participate in the elections in the united states. this would give non-eu citizens more rights than eu citizens. the question was, however, whether the rights of eu citizens as laid down in the treaty were being applied to the extent intended. in particular, how far have we come with the rights of citizens of the union enshrined in the ec treaty? for example, can our citizens really settle in other eu member states without any bureaucracy? what obstacles make it difficult to work in another eu country? what is the situation with the transferability or the changeover of social security and health insurance? are citizens being checked at eu internal borders with disproportionate severity? these and other questions remain unanswered by mr catania. i say sorry because these are the questions that affect every eu citizen in his or her daily life. reasonable answers to these questions strengthen people's faith in the european union. the improvement of the reality of everyday life and of exchanges between the peoples of europe strengthens the acceptance of europe. that opportunity was lost. the epp-ed group will therefore reject this report. mr president, allow me to make a comment because all the speakers here leave the chamber immediately after they have spoken. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has been meeting since 7 p.m. and we are all required to go to the committee immediately. i just want to make this clear so it doesn't come across as rude.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. on behalf of the socialist group, we thank mrs prets and all the members of the committee on women's rights for their contribution to this report. we have put forward many proposals to combat trafficking in women. commissioner frattini, we are with you 100% in the fight against this modern evil. with the help of the action plan and the cooperation of other institutions - the council of europe, the osce, the united nations - we must drain this swamp and take action! we have many suggestions in the report which we can take up and which must now be put into practice. we must provide money, we must equip europol with skills, we must set up a police task force. these are all measures that are helpful. we decided at the december partsession, with the support of half the members of the european parliament, to set up childcare telephones. we want the daphne programme to remain an effective tool, separate from drug prevention. this is another important subject, but one which should be pursued separately. commissioner, we are on your side in this area. all this must not be delayed any longer. your predecessors, mr vittorino and mrs gradin, have dealt with this subject. thank god we have a wider base now. but we are in the world cup, and that will be another test. in germany alone, an additional 40,000 prostitutes are expected to be brought in to supposedly meet the male need. these women will not work voluntarily, and therefore measures must be taken. we will continue to discuss this matter in the women's committee and will not stand by in silence. the debate today should send a clear message to the organisations that we support the women in their struggle and are not afraid to address the demand side and to be concrete here. let us tackle the problem together and bring the grey area into the headlines, also by collecting data and by taking concrete political measures to raise the awareness of our citizens.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank mrs prets for her report and in this context to draw attention to a specific subject which will be of concern to us this year. the european union has also been active in the fight against trafficking in human beings, particularly in the context of the fight against drugs. in sports, there's always a value to fairness and consideration. but if, in time for the world cup in the summer, football fans are offered world cup brothels like in berlin, i will quickly become a game spoiler. the trafficking of women and children and forced prostitution must be banned, prosecuted and curbed at national and european level. show the red card to all those who don't want to do anything about it!
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all those who have spoken in this debate. i think there is a general consensus and i think the added value of the european union in tackling the issue together with a global approach is clear to everyone. i would like to focus on a few specific points that have been raised. the commission will continue to encourage and promote specific projects aimed at preventing and protecting victims of trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, and i can confirm that i am prepared to ensure that projects under the so-called 'daphne initiative' are separated from the strategy for combating drugs. i know that this is a specific feature that parliament wants and once parliament has made a proposal to that effect, i shall be prepared to welcome it and to keep the instruments for preventing and combating trafficking in women and children (daphne project) separate from the initiatives for the fight against drugs, which are objectively different matters. i fully support the idea of a european number for victims, especially children. i am working on a similar project myself and i very much appreciate the proposal in the report. i am thinking of initiatives within the framework of the union's international policy to reduce, or even eradicate, sex tourism. it is not exactly trafficking to europe, but unfortunately there are thousands and thousands of citizens of european countries for whom the best holiday is to go to countries where they can have sex with children. this sex tourism needs to be stamped out and i believe one way to do that is to involve the large international network of travel agencies. the tourist agencies know perfectly well, when they organize trips, what the destinations of sex tourism are and so we will work with the governments of the countries concerned and with the network of tourist agencies to at least get this strong message across. as regards sporting events, this is a very serious matter and i intend to write a formal letter to the german government to recommend that special preventive measures be taken at the 2006 world cup to avoid the influx and concentration of people who would unfortunately be destined for prostitution at that time. it is not a difficult operation, because these are obvious phenomena and the means and instruments of the german federal government, including investigative means, are in a position to help us. i take this opportunity of your suggestion to send this request. i agree with a more stringent approach to customers. i am personally convinced - i have said this before and i confirm it - that the customers must be discouraged. there will be a debate on this subject and although i think i understand that there are differences of opinion, i think we can agree that there would be no human beings or there would be fewer if it were not for the people who are asking for them. that is why we need to reflect first of all on the national governments, such as sweden and finland, which have followed this strategy, but also on the european union as a whole. i repeat my opinion: more strictness towards customers. the last issue i would like to focus on is the exchange of information: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. you probably know, as i do, that there is still no european criminal record for, for example, persons convicted of paedophilia: the fourniret case was possible because no one in any other country knew the origin and nature of this person. today, therefore, we must - and we are doing - concentrate on paedophilia, for example, by creating a european register of information, not a new structure, but a stream of real-time information accessible to all member states for certain types of conviction, starting with paedophilia, which i believe is one of the most heinous crimes. that is why, in speaking to the director of europol, i was able to appreciate the commitment of that body to combating paedophilia, also through computer tools. i am speaking about this because mr riera madurell raised the issue. i can tell you that last year a first investigation into a gang of paedophiles in 13 european countries, coordinated by europol itself - and this is really good news, although few people know about it - led to the arrest of almost a hundred people. i repeat: 13 countries and europol. this shows that europe can and must intervene. of course, you can always count on my full support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the wto ministerial conference in hong kong by mr enrique barón crespo, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-0108/2005 - b6-0348/2005).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to continue on the point which mr sturdy has just raised. commissioner, you asked what you should do in terms of further evaluation and what you can consider from our side. i think mr sturdy is right. in future, it is worth considering whether the single-enterprise approach will always make sense. it is probably sensible to apply them now, but i strongly suspect that the future of the wto will also depend on finding other methods, on being more flexible and perhaps allowing for parallel negotiation topics and on working with a flexible and rolling work schedule. how all this fits into this round, i'll leave to your wisdom. there is another point you should consider. parliament has always said - i myself wrote the report years ago - that we should also take account of the bilateral rounds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. however, it must be seen that it makes sense to have bilateral negotiations here too. my question is this: the old commission has always refused to conclude bilateral agreements with asia. commissioner, have you changed your mind? do you want to focus on other areas of work? question number three: i just got back from mexico. i was surprised to find that there was a great deal of emphasis on the services sector and on investment in infrastructure. however, i have the impression that there is not always a clear understanding of what the commission wants to do and what we want to do in the context of the service rounds in the area of the multilateral round. perhaps you can add something to that. fourthly, standards. i am firmly convinced that we must return to discussing the question of standards more in the multilateral round. the more participants we have, the more important this will become. the more difficult international competition becomes, the more urgent this question will become. my question is: are you thinking of a new initiative? my final point: we are discussing research framework programmes. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. what is your view on the need to invest more in agricultural and structural research? what is your position on bioethanol research?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr commissioner, you and your young team - which you set up before the hong kong negotiations - have failed to achieve market access for agricultural products here in europe and industrial products in third world countries. the third world countries have not followed your liberalization trend for good reasons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we offer a very large market access to the third world countries, it just depends on what conditions. it is about qualification, about participation in our price level, in our standards, so that these countries can develop their economies. the third world countries' access to the market for industrial products and services from our region is not about destroying or making impossible the development of industrial, infrastructure and services in these countries, but also about qualifying them in this area, that is, to be service providers in the sense of the development of these countries. then we can talk about a possible round of development. i hope you will reconsider and put the focus on qualifications in your next round of work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, thank you very much for your comments. i would like to begin by making a critical remark about our negotiating position as europeans, because i think we have been too honest. we had a position that basically rejected deception as part of the negotiating mandate. i think we should reconsider, because everyone else has been using lists. we didn't, we put our findings on the table very early. i would like to take the opportunity to say that your negotiating style and your way of informing the european parliament have contributed to our unity. thank you very much. we have of course also influenced the budgetary discussions in brussels. i thought that was very good. we have made no progress on the issue of geographical indications of origin. you have raised it and many speakers have also made it clear that this is an important issue for us. we must fight for our geographical indications and the intellectual property rights that go with them. we will have to use lists and we will have to work in concert.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission has kept parliament informed of the state of play of the negotiations in the run-up to and during the wto conference in hong kong. that was very helpful. for this, my sincere thanks. i have the following questions to put to the commission. firstly, the commission was well placed in terms of content. however, a convincing communication strategy was lacking. in public perception, therefore, the eu has been almost always on the defensive. other countries have been clever in portraying the european union as a selfish blocker. what improvements does the commission plan to make to its communication strategy? when will it take concrete steps and what will they be? secondly, the doha development round was established with the aim of agreeing an ambitious programme for the reform and liberalisation of trade policy, particularly for the benefit of developing countries. unfortunately, we have also seen in the hong kong context that the word globalisation is being seen by more and more people as a threat rather than an opportunity. we are seeing in europe whole generations of schoolchildren who are leaving school without having learned the basics of the social market economy and world trade, and who are therefore unfortunately open to misinformation and false campaigns. we also see that our media almost exclusively report on the relocation of production and not on the creation of new jobs or additional wealth through world trade. we are seeing this increasingly leading to insecurity among people. we are seeing that radical groups are also receiving european funds and using this money to disinformation and frighten people. at the plenary session on 12 may the commission promised to present a concept of how we can promote world trade aggressively among the people in parallel with the wto negotiations. unfortunately, such a concept does not yet exist. is this concept being developed and when will it be presented? thirdly, does the commission intend to grant market economy status to china in 2006, even though this would still be unjustified?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the wto after the hong kong round what's next? on the one hand, very little concrete progress has been made. on the other hand - and i think this is psychologically very important in these circumstances - the thread of conversation is not cut. i would like to make a few points here which are more general. first of all, you have made very good use of the negotiating mandate you were given as commissioner. the european union has finally acted in a united way and has achieved something, even though we have been pushed into a corner. but we are also expected to do more than other industrialized nations. secondly, the cooperation between you and the european parliament has been very pleasant. they have almost considered it their duty to inform us or to have us inform them. we can improve everything, but here we were really well informed and very well involved in the work. the question is whether that will be enough. how can it go on? i believe that it is urgently necessary to strengthen the rights of parliament in foreign trade matters, completely independently of the constitutional treaty. in the context of the further and deepening globalisation, foreign trade policy areas are becoming increasingly important. if a political area is of great importance to the citizen, then the elected representatives of the citizen must have a say in it. we must therefore be able to exert more influence and control over the commission. this is not a criticism of your present work, but a look into the future.
member of the commission. mr president, thank you for the opportunity to discuss the results of the successful montreal conference on climate change held in december. in montreal, in addition to the 11th conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, we also had the first meeting of the states that have ratified the kyoto protocol. i am particularly pleased with the presence and positive activity of the ten members of the european parliament at the montreal conference. it underlines the importance that both our institutions attach to tackling the challenge of climate change and the role of the multilateral process in this process. our frequent contacts and cooperation in montreal have borne fruit. it is therefore important that we continue this practice in future sessions. the outcome of the montreal conference is an important step forward for the multilateral climate negotiations. the kyoto protocol is now fully implemented, and the agreement on the montreal action plan paves the way for future international cooperation on climate change. this will, inter alia, provide greater certainty for the european carbon market and the private sector. the list of montreal's political accomplishments is indeed impressive. firstly, we agreed to launch two rounds of formal dialogue on the future climate change response system. the convention dialogue circle includes all parties to the convention, including the united states and australia, which have not ratified the kyoto protocol. and of course all the big developing countries. a long-term, in-depth dialogue will be held under the convention, organised in four working meetings over the next two years. the results of this dialogue will be presented to the conference of the parties in 2007. the kyoto round will discuss further emission reductions by developing countries under the kyoto protocol for the period after 2012. a special ad hoc united nations working group was set up under the kyoto protocol. the group will complete its work as soon as possible and in a timely manner so that there is no gap between the first and second commitment periods of the protocol. secondly, in montreal all the decisions necessary for the full operation of the kyoto protocol were taken as follows: the kyoto protocol's operational rules, known as the marrakesh agreements, were adopted in their entirety. the decision on compliance shall make the protocol binding on all contracting parties and provide for the establishment of a relevant compliance committee. the five-year work programme on adaptation includes a full range of activities, including work aimed at complementing our knowledge of the impacts of climate change and the problems it creates. it also includes specific actions for the design of adaptation and the implementation of the relevant measures. the adjustment fund will finance adjustment activities. its resources will be a contribution to the clean growth mechanism which will probably start to be paid in 2008. thirdly, the montreal conference went further by making the kyoto protocol a stronger and more effective system. the clean growth mechanism has been strengthened. the executive and supervisory role of the clean development mechanism governing board has been clarified and strengthened. the secretariat will be staffed with more staff in order to improve the services it provides to the governing board and its committees. the parties also committed to provide a financial contribution to the operation of the clean development mechanism. the majority of this money will be a contribution from the european union. the operational bodies for common implementation were also set up. the preparatory work on the clean development mechanism may also be used for the approval of joint implementation projects. this means that it is possible to speed up the approval of projects of common application for which plans have already been drawn up. the european union also pledged to provide financial support to the joint implementation monitoring committee. finally, the european union used the montreal conference to demonstrate its significant progress in implementing the kyoto protocol. the many positive reactions i have received strengthen my conviction that the european union's response to the climate challenge can not only be the most efficient and economically viable, but also provide a competitive advantage for european businesses. the strong interest in the emissions trading system we have put in place makes it clear that we are an example to be followed. the european union has taken a leading role internationally in the fight against climate change. it continued to support the kyoto protocol when serious doubts were cast on its entry into force. however, we must always be aware that greater efforts are needed within the union. most member states need to implement additional measures to achieve the kyoto targets. new joint measures at european union level will also be required. the current second phase of the european climate change programme will help identify the best measures. i would also like to mention the debate within the european union on climate change. i believe that the agreement to open an international dialogue reached in montreal is an important stimulus for the european union. the european union's strategy of seeking to complement the process at the united nations with bilateral commitments and focusing on confidence-building and taking into account the views of other contracting parties has proved successful. the montreal conference endorsed this approach. the european union should now engage with all parties, in particular those with large emissions such as the united states and emerging economies, in a constructive dialogue to explore participation in the future international climate change regime. i believe that montreal marks a new phase in international cooperation to tackle climate change. the search period is over. we now have an international system with all the necessary mechanisms. the commission's proposals are aimed at improving the quality of life of the citizens of the union, and at improving the quality of life of the citizens of the union. but we cannot rest on our laurels. climate change is an urgent need and affects us all. we will need drastic cuts in greenhouse gas emissions in order to stabilize, and then reduce, the concentrations of these gases in our planet's atmosphere. that is why this year, in the second phase of the european climate change programme, we will be discussing new initiatives to strengthen our climate policy. this second european climate change programme will include a comprehensive review of the first phase of climate policies, including the european union's emissions trading system, action on carbon capture and storage, aviation and other transport and other issues. on the basis of this review, i will propose new initiatives to strengthen our climate policy depending on the outcome of this stakeholder consultation process. i know that i can count on the support of the european parliament for this project.
member of the commission. i shall make brief comments. i fully agree that climate change is one of the most serious problems, if not the most serious problem, facing the world today. and of course for the european commission, and for me in particular, climate change, as i have emphasized on many occasions, is one of the main priorities. we have of course been fighting all this time to be able to achieve the objectives we set ourselves at the beginning of the year with the communication we made, which the european parliament adopted and made the relevant recommendations, winning the battle against climate change. this communication was the main document which gave the relevant arguments and with which all the discussion which led to the agreement in montreal took place. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it shows how important the contribution of the european union has been both in this statement and in the various interim bilateral meetings we have had with countries such as india, china and other rapidly developing countries - mexico, brazil - which are countries that emit large amounts of carbon dioxide, and in the climate of confidence that we have cultivated all this time to achieve this success. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the road ahead is still long. and i agree that we're already experiencing climate change today. we're already at 0.7 degrees celsius of warming, and a lot of the things we're seeing today are due to climate change. as mentioned earlier, we see various weather phenomena, such as hurricanes, prolonged droughts or floods in other parts of the world, that are part of the predictions of scientists about climate change. each of these events may not be directly linked or we may not be able to directly link them to climate change, but they are within the overall forecast of scientists. and of course, the phenomenon that we're seeing today, the melting of glaciers, both in the alps and in the arctic circle, the possible change in the course of the mexican current, the rise in sea level and a host of other phenomena, will result in significant impacts on the lives, health, environment, ecosystems of all of humanity, and much greater impacts in those very poor countries that don't have the means to deal with these consequences. so we do have a great responsibility, a great duty, to deal with climate change. the european union is indeed the world leader in this field. we are making a sincere effort and hope to persuade countries which are not willing to cooperate - such as the united states, which we mentioned earlier and which currently emits more carbon dioxide than any other country - to follow this path. i am convinced that in the not too distant future all these countries, especially the developed ones, will follow. we are also calling for the developing countries to contribute in their own way, in accordance with the united nations principle of common but differentiated participation in the fight against global warming. i sincerely believe that together with you, with your help, which i desperately need, we can help to tackle this great problem for the whole world.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr jarzembowski and the committee on transport and tourism for their efforts to improve the commission's proposal. this new commission proposal for a directive on market access for port services responds to the needs already identified by the commission in 2001 when it adopted its first proposal on the subject. the proposal we are discussing was put forward by my predecessor, mrs de palacio. it pursues the same objectives as the previous proposal, namely the achievement of the freedom to provide port services in accordance with the treaty provisions, as confirmed by the european council with the lisbon agenda, the completion of the internal market in the port sector, and the implementation of the conclusions of the 2001 white paper on transport which presented solutions to reduce congestion on the road network and increase cohesion with peripheral regions. of course, all this should be done in full compliance with the regulations in force on the environment, maritime safety and security, but especially on employment and social security. the text also provides that the commission will adopt guidelines on state aid to ports and that the ports concerned will have to comply with the provisions of the commission's directive on financial transparency. i would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen of the house, the importance of efficient ports: ports are an essential link in the transport chain and in the development of the motorways of the sea. 90% of our foreign traffic passes through our ports. we need a clear framework of rules that encourage investment in our ports. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has made the changes it considered necessary to the text which was not approved in 2003. i am aware of the reservations that this new text has, but i would like to follow closely the debate that is about to take place, the main motivation of which i have mentioned: the modernization of our ports to further develop port activity in europe. thank you for your attention. you have emphasized, mr president, the number of speakers: i think that this debate will be very enlightening for the commission. i therefore thank all those who will be speaking in advance, and i thank the committee and its rapporteur once again.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be involved in the matter. ladies and gentlemen, all the arguments for and against a seaport directive have been discussed intensively for months. and two things have been clear since the hearing in the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism last june. first, all those involved in port activities, from port companies to shipowners, are in favour of clear rules on transparency to create a level playing field between maritime ports. this applies to all the groups in this house, which, incidentally, did not table any substantial amendments to the transparency provisions of the commission's proposal during the discussions in the committee on transport. i therefore find it completely incomprehensible why four groups are calling for the commission's proposal to be rejected altogether, because they are also preventing us from being able to introduce the rules on transparency. so those who are in favour of transparency and fair competition should not reject this part of the directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. the interests are very different. that's what the hearing showed. the providers of port services, i.e. the existing port companies - container terminals, dockers and the like - naturally do not want european regulation. they want these issues to continue to be regulated at national level. the users of port services, i.e. shipowners, businesses, shippers and producers, believe - and i think they are right - that we need a european regulation on market access. let me give you just five brief reasons for a european-style market access regime: first, market access should be made possible for new service providers through regular public tenders for public leased land. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources. secondly, in favour of existing port handling companies, the present transitional provisions are intended to ensure the continuation of public leases for a period of up to 46 years. the commission's proposals do not therefore endanger any single establishment or job, but allow existing establishments to continue their activities thanks to the long transitional periods. in the interests of the dockers our proposals are correct, because we want to remove self-manufacturing from the directive. we believe that there is no need for a european regulation on self-handling, especially since self-handling is not possible in the area which characterizes the typical activity of a modern port, namely container traffic. because no container ship has a loading dock that could be used by the ship's crew to take the containers on or off board. we are also still safeguarding the jobs of the dock workers by means of the long transitional provisions which i have just explained. finally, there is no danger of social dumping or of worsening working conditions, because the directive explicitly states that it does not interfere with the social legislation of the member states and with collective bargaining. fourthly, in the interests of shipowners and the shipping industry, our proposals are correct. in future, when new companies enter the market, they will be able to choose between the most efficient and cost-effective suppliers and will not be in a monopoly situation, as is the case in some ports, where they will have to accept whatever is offered to them. fifthly, from the point of view of the economy and the consumer, the amended directive is the right one, because it is important for imports and exports that all ports regulate imports and exports even more efficiently and at a lower cost to our consumers. in this respect, i believe that fair market access while protecting the interests of existing businesses and jobs is the best solution. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on this matter. i would ask you not to refuse to decide the merits but to vote on the motions for resolutions. if you reject the commission's proposal as a whole - not only the competition part but also the market regulation part - then we will be left without european regulation, and that would bring with it legal uncertainty and planning uncertainty. don't be impressed by the strikes that took place yesterday. i couldn't believe the unions had lured people here with false arguments. even if some of the protesters fired flares, let us not interpret this to the detriment of all dock workers. let us make a fair decision in this matter, that is why i am asking you!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not perhaps a note in advance: the docker group has been very active in the debate on the future of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. (applause from the centre) now to the point. we have talked and fought for clean seas and clean ports in the past. we have introduced legislation to this end, for example the directive on port waste facilities of november 2000. if the port package belongs anywhere, it belongs in the port waste facilities, the waste disposal facilities of the ports; it's right there. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. why would you do that? it's very simple. the commission's draft simply and painfully ignores the reality of most european ports. the commission wants to intervene in an unreasonable way in functioning, economically successful structures and to enforce competition with the huge and expensive bureaucratic effort that exists in the vast majority of ports. finally - and this is the most important - a lot of skilled jobs, families and professional lives are at stake. i have not heard a single reason why it would be right to jeopardize these jobs and endanger the social peace in european ports without necessity. there's no reason to. the fundamental freedoms which are repeatedly mentioned are allegedly not guaranteed in the ports. there may be a few such ports in europe; in most ports there is fierce competition. of course, in most ports, port operators have limited space and not all operators are immediately available, but this does not mean that they are discriminated against. let me give you an example. let's take a pedestrian zone in the best city location. there's not enough room. again, not every provider is involved. but does the commission intend to require a tendering procedure in future because a german barber cannot immediately rent a shop on the ramblas in barcelona? you can't do that! it's about the maritime location in europe. it is also about how we europeans relate to other continents. if we want to preserve our european social model, we must not let european ports be served on a silver platter to asian companies. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. commissioner, you inherited this dubious package from your predecessor, mrs de palacio. we know you're not a bloodsucker. beat that legacy! we'll help you. we want a proposal from you that is really european in its essence. we need a european port policy with fair competition between ports. we need a sensible hinterland policy and we need to position european ports reasonably in relation to the rest of the world. we are not going to be able to do that, and we are not going to be able to do that. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the greens in the european parliament reject the port package. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is bad manners to reintroduce a directive which has been rejected by parliament almost unchanged and to throw it at the feet of the successor and parliament. the port package is opposed by almost all the member states. the conservative government in the netherlands, the labour government in the united kingdom, the red-green party and the black-red federal government in germany reject it. the fear of an economic setback is justified, because investment must be paid back in the short term, bureaucracy is being expanded at a cost, and competition already exists. the costs in eu ports are very low, twice as high in the usa and three times as high in asia as in europe. the dock workers' strike is justified because they fear wage dumping. such a policy of social coldness is not compatible with the social market economy. there is a huge black-red-green coalition against the port package. i would ask you to join us in rejecting it. then commissioner barrot will have the chance to put forward a new regulation to achieve the necessary transparency in european ports.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr commissioner, apart from the contribution of mr jarzembowski, who was not sure whether to say yes or no, have you heard a single speech which was positive about this port services directive? the reasons for rejection vary widely. they range from social issues to bureaucracy to the fact that we consider it undemocratic for a commissioner who has an expiry date to table a proposal that has already been rejected. the house is very much in agreement, and i think you would be doing the commission and yourself a great favour if you said in your closing statement that you were withdrawing this proposal. they are responding to parliament's request in advance. they accept that the people concerned do not want this directive and that there is a different basic understanding of democratic practices. this would give you the opportunity to submit a new directive which would deal exclusively with transparency and the need for aid in ports. that would be a sensible approach and would be a great service to democracy in the european union. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am convinced, commissioner, that you will find a majority in this house for a european port directive if you put forward a well thought-out directive which will indeed promote transparency and competition in europe on this subject. however, this directive is not suitable for this purpose. that is why i suggest that you withdraw it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. mr jarzembowski has done an excellent job. but a bad directive is hardly going to be improved in this house, either. the commission should get used to the fact that parliament cannot be the repair shop for bad directives. the draft directive is therefore hardly advisable because it is unclear on important points. the market definition is completely unclear. is the market about competition within ports, between ports or between ports and the common volume of traffic in the hinterland? there is no impact assessment. what is the benefit to the consumer? that has remained completely unclear. the cost of transport should be reduced by increasing competition. from what we know, the cost of shipping in europe will be less than 50% of that in singapore or dubai - much lower. you should also keep them lower. the proposal does, however, risk making them go up. does this directive really increase the number of service providers in ports? please reconsider this policy. pull it back and put a better one on. you will find a majority for transparency and competition in europe when it is well thought out.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i can only join the speakers from my group in thanking the two rapporteurs. i would like to make one point in particular. it is very good and i am very happy that there is agreement in this house on this matter and with the commission. i would point out, however, that the idea of a single air transport policy for the benefit of our airlines, their employees and passengers is not as uniformly welcomed by all member states as it is by us. the commission has also been very active in the field of air transport, and has been involved in the development of the european air transport policy. we must therefore ensure that the commission's negotiations with third countries, such as the united states, prove to the member states that a single european air transport policy is better than 25 different air transport policies with third countries. we should therefore always keep this aspect in mind. we are convinced that it is in the interests of businesses, workers and passengers to pursue a uniform policy towards third countries. but we still have to convince some governments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have three comments to make. firstly, we welcome the commission's approach to the gradual extension of community agreements with third countries. however, given the far-reaching implications for the whole transport sector, the environment, competition and the internal market, i would urge that the question of whether aviation policy should be excluded from the codecision procedure be reconsidered. secondly, we expect the commission not only to disclose its strategic approach but also to draw up a list of priority countries for the agreements it is seeking. commissioner, you gave a little sketch of this earlier. thirdly, the overriding principle of all contracts must be mutually symmetrical market opening. therefore, in the current negotiations with russia and china, it must be borne in mind that unless the problem with russia is first resolved in terms of air fares, an agreement with china would be contrary to the principle of reciprocity, because china receives different conditions for air fares from russia than european airlines, and we cannot accept that.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i thank the members who have responded to the excellent reports by mr el khadraoui and mr zīle. i am happy to confirm my intention to inform parliament very regularly of the strategic orientations of our international negotiating policy. once again, thank you to our two rapporteurs for their excellent work. the potential for development in the air transport sector is considerable and it is an integral part of our mobility policy. i am naturally pleased that you have shown such broad support for regulatory convergence, which is an objective inseparable from the opening up of markets. with some partners failing to offer sufficient guarantees for an efficient and fair trading environment, regulatory convergence is a priority. the opening up of markets can only be done gradually when a more cautious approach is required. sometimes we even have to be firm. this is already the case and will be the case more and more with russia, with regard to the flyover of siberia, as mrs kauppi has just pointed out, not to mention that this flyover is subject to arbitrary taxation. so i welcome your clear and unambiguous support on this point. i am very attentive to the safety and security issues that sometimes arise with acute urgency in this sector. in addition to competition, we must be vigilant about full respect for social and environmental standards. i would like to say to parliament that having a european strategy and being able to sign horizontal agreements is an advantage, because it allows us to influence international civil aviation law. a united europe is much more capable of changing certain standards, of moving them towards higher quality, both in the environmental and social dimensions. in this connection, i should like to inform you, madam president, that the standard operating text is currently being finalised for a common position in the council. the text needs to be translated by linguistic jurists and it is then envisaged that it will be sent back to parliament for a second reading in march or april. finally, i would say that the progress of the open sky negotiations with the united states should normally give the necessary impetus to the community approach following the court of justice's decision. it is premature to give an exact assessment of the situation in this area: we await further clarification of the new interpretation of the us department of transportation regarding airline control rules. but it is true that we have made good progress, particularly on regulatory convergence, on which we have practically reached agreement, and i hope that this negotiation will give a decisive and decisive impetus to the community approach. this is obviously much preferable to bilateral agreements which will never be as effective for our european industry. this is a good illustration of the fact that in some areas it is in the union's best interests to speak with one voice. and you will understand that i am grateful, mr president, particularly to parliament for its strong support for the commission in this strategy for a genuinely european negotiation which, in my view, must also be beneficial to each of the member states and to our european industry as a whole. i thank our rapporteurs and parliament for their interest in this aspect of our external relations and international negotiations. this will be of increasing importance in view of the growing role that the airline industry is to play in the world.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.45 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
we have of course fully supported this report by mrs prets and we were also pleased that it has been considerably improved by amendments. as the greens/efa group, we were particularly concerned to make it clear that even free people have to fear sanctions if they know about forced prostitution. we want to make it clear that forced prostitution must not only be combated legally, but also ostracized in society. and we are particularly pleased that parliament has also taken up the idea that we will take an initiative on 8 march against forced prostitution at the football world cup, which will be held this year in germany. we want to be very clear: there must be a red card, and fair play must mean that we are against the existence of forced prostitution. i hope that this will really send a clear signal from parliament in relation to sporting events, because we can only fight forced prostitution if we make this clear not only in legislative initiatives but at all levels. and it is precisely this explosive growth in forced prostitution that must give us a real reason to take a very strong stand against it.
yesterday's minutes were distributed. is there any objection?
that will be corrected, mr president.
this was discussed yesterday at the bureau meeting, mr rübig. 15 officers were injured, 20 windows were broken. safety aspects were discussed, as well as how to regulate the damage. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the security of energy supplies, and in particular gas supplies.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to start with the subject of ukraine, because i was a little surprised that the gas dispute between russia and ukraine, which has been recurring every year, has almost led to europe acting as if this were a european gas crisis. the situation in ukraine was a crisis, followed by moldova, but not europe. europe could still count on stable business relations with russia. i think that this situation has shown us that we as the european union cannot just say that we need ukraine as a safe transit country. we must help ukraine, particularly in its energy policy, to break away from its dependence on russia, so that the country can develop positively. a lot of things have to change. i think that the commission has a duty to make a statement on the situation in the community. these weaknesses vary in intensity from one member state to another. a coordinated approach could certainly help to improve the situation in the member states and at european level. we have learned to appreciate the value of natural resources. gas or oil - which was more hotly debated during the iraq war - are raw materials that we use all over europe - let me put it mildly - to waste. we are wasting these resources, which we have not been able to afford for a long time. if we are to draw the right conclusions, then i think we must follow much more closely the ideas of commissioner piebalgs, which he advocated at the beginning of his term. resource productivity and energy efficiency are objectives we must pursue, and then we will be less dependent. i would be totally against the idea of a europe which is completely self-sufficient. that is a naive approach to the whole discussion. we must work towards a europe which actually manages resources properly. we've been discussing this for decades, since the club of rome. now let's make nails with heads. those who think that the use of nuclear energy is the right answer to the shortage or the finiteness of gas should seriously explain how they intend to proceed. how many reactors do you plan to build in the next few years, and at what sites? what do you want to do with the waste that has been produced in europe for decades? we discussed the report on the decommissioning of power reactors a few weeks ago. at the moment, there is a disaster in the field of nuclear waste disposal. so if this is the future, then please be a little more clear! but spare us the discussion of a term extension. it's starting again even at the ignalina reactor. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the community's energy policy. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! i believe that the course of the discussion between ukraine and russia has clearly shown that europe, and not just the european union, needs a modern, new overall energy policy. in the end, you can debate this however you want the dispute between russia and ukraine was the dispute between a supplier who wanted more money and a recipient who was not willing to pay that money. both sides have known this for a long time. if we are moving towards this crisis politically, so to speak, without trying to find a solution in time, then that is also the fault of both governments. i very much welcome the commissioner's announcement that he is going to present a green paper, although i hope, of course, that the green paper will not contain such old slogans as negotiating codes of conduct for supplying and transit countries, new pipelines or even nuclear energy. i believe that, as is already the case in many countries, we must rely on other sources of energy such as biomass, solar, wind, water, geothermal and combined heat and power, on the one hand, and on energy conservation, energy efficiency and also the reduction of subsidies for the old fossil fuels. we have to move this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the discretion of the member states.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i think that the commission and the presidency have done the right thing. we had too little information, so we refrained from any blame and did not want to give any of the two sides in this dispute the right or even to reveal any nuances. it is clear that the situation could have been critical and that in a new member state there were supply problems in the industrial sector from day one. but the commission and we are conscious of not talking about a crisis but about a critical situation. we must bear in mind that dependence on fossil fuels and imports of these fuels will certainly increase significantly. the commission estimates that this dependence will increase from just under 50% at present to around 2/3 by 2030. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community's transport infrastructure. the presidency looks forward with great interest to the green paper and the first parts of it, which are to be ready by the spring summit. when, if not now, will we discuss a stronger common european energy policy? the gas problem, russia, ukraine, the supply problem, but also oil prices, climate change and many other things are reasons to think more strongly in this direction. the presidency and i personally support the commission's proposal to set up a reserve for two months, similar to what is done at other levels with oil. details will be discussed here. we have repeatedly paid particular attention to giving high priority to the neighbourhood policy, particularly in relation to moldova. i have also referred to this in my opinion on moldova. mr swoboda says that russia, as a member of the wto, would open up certain possibilities here, but that there would be little that could be done in 36 hours. it is interesting to note that russia has not ratified the energy charter and therefore the dispute settlement procedure provided for therein cannot be applied. so clearly priority for energy efficiency, for renewable energy, but also the awareness that we have to deal with the import of gas in different ways even more than before. it should be noted that russia and russian natural gas will continue to form the backbone of the european union's gas supply in the coming years and decades. as an austrian, i would like to point out that in 1968 an austrian company (omv) was the first company to conclude a supply contract with gasprom. for almost 40 years, there was absolute reliability. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i have already mentioned the alternative route through turkey, namely via nabucco, in my speech. diversification of care is absolutely appropriate, but it cannot be done overnight. we must learn the lessons of the crisis which has lasted 36 hours. i would like to thank the european parliament for the very important debate and also to point out the importance we attach to this chapter in the agenda for the spring summit in march. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to begin by thanking parliament for this debate, which clearly indicates there is general support for developments towards a common eu energy policy that respects subsidiarity. it is interesting that the first calls for such vital developments were made 30 years ago, during the first oil crisis. at that time, for obvious reasons, they came not from parliament but from the council. the situation today is definitely more complex than it was then, and will probably have longer-lasting consequences in the energy area than was the case 30 years ago. given these circumstances, the council, the commission and parliament must act. on the security dimension, i would like to mention two particular aspects. firstly, enlargement definitely brought new challenges for the european union. security of supply was certainly a far bigger challenge for the new member states than for the older member states. secondly, the paper we are preparing at this stage has two authors: mrs ferrero-waldner and myself. therefore, the issues that mr swoboda raised will be addressed. we also look into action at times of crisis. as i mentioned, this crisis was very short and some speakers referred to it as a mini- or even non-existent crisis. one should not underestimate the importance of the situation, because some countries did feel an impact. in most countries, the only impact felt by citizens was a media one. however, in some countries economic measures were taken in respect of the supply of gas. it was a real crisis and we should look at how we could react more effectively in the future. at the same time, we should act immediately. we already have a lot of instruments that could be applied vigorously. on energy efficiency, we have a building directive entering into force which should be applied vigorously. the same applies to combined heat and power, and renewable energies: we have legal instruments and we should apply them. the same is true for renewable energy. the commission will do everything possible. it is already taking positive steps, such as trying to mobilise all possible resources. let me turn to the new neighbourhood countries, with which we have very good relations. unfortunately, it is true that energy issues have been neglected. a memorandum of understanding with ukraine on the implementation of energy policy was signed only this year during the summit. therefore, we really need to help not only to deal with external supply issues but also with energy consumption, because the energy intensity in those countries, and energy losses, are tremendous, and no country could bear the energy costs arising from that situation. the same applies to moldova. the european bank for reconstruction and development has done a good job in ukraine, but it could intensify its activities. we could draw on other resources to strengthen these and harness new neighbourhood instruments for strengthening policies. we will do this, and do the same as regards development policy, because otherwise there can be no solution. i should like to thank you once again for this debate. i am sure that this will not be the last time we debate these issues, and i draw a lot of inspiration from such debates. (applause)
the debate is closed.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr jean-claude fruteau, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation on the common organisation of the markets in the sugar sector (c6-0243/2005 - a6-0391/2005), the report by mr jean-claude fruteau, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1782/2003 establishing common rules for direct payments under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers (com (2005) 0263 - c6-0244/2005 - 2005/0119 (cns)) (a6-0392/2005), and the report by mr jean-claude fruteau, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation on a temporary restructuring of the sugar industry (c6-0393/2005 - c6-0120/03/2005) amending regulation (ec) no 1253/1999 on the financing of the common agricultural policy and amending regulation (ec) no 1253/1999 (c6-0263/2005) on the financing of the european agricultural guid-
member of the commission. madam president, first of all, i would like to thank mr daul, mr barón crespo, mr fazakas and mrs morgantini for their proactive involvement in this dossier, and to praise the impressive work accomplished by the rapporteurs, mr fruteau, mr glattfelder, mr wynn and mrs kinnock. let me also thank the members of the committees on agriculture and rural development, international trade, budgetary control and development for their strong commitment, their helpful input and the very constructive debate. these impressive contributions certainly have produced results. the reform of the common market organisation that has remained practically unchanged for almost four decades is a major undertaking; in fact this reform is long overdue. sugar policy has many facets. the list of legitimate interests that need to be met is very long: the hundreds of thousands of farmers who grow sugar beet in the community; the sugar producing and consuming industries and their workers; the consumers; and, last but not least, our trade partners, including those countries enjoying longstanding preferences. from the beginning, i have been aware of the need to strike a fine balance between the different needs and the different demands. as commissioner for agriculture and rural development, i am fully aware of the social, economic and environmental relevance of the sugar sector, both inside and outside the community. that makes sugar policy particularly challenging, which is why i have committed myself so deeply to the reform of this sector. i believe that the present proposals in their entirety respond to the needs of the community. they are the result of careful reflection and are in tune in the cap reform package and our international commitments. we have been ambitious and far-reaching. i am convinced that the future of the sugar sector cannot be based on short-term approaches. the reform package seeks to give the european sugar sector a viable and competitive future. it offers long-term certainty and generous assistance to help both farmers and sugar producers with the process of adjustment. by acting now, we will have the funds available to ease the painful restructuring process that is absolutely vital and at the same time compensate our farmers. delaying this necessary reform would result in nothing but a more drastic reduction of community production and a much more severe restructuring process. we also need to ensure the compliance of the future regime with the wto panel, and our proposal fulfils that requirement. finally, we have to ensure that the european union remains an attractive market for developing countries, and offer our acp partners the necessary financial assistance to adapt to these unavoidable changes. much useful work has been done since the first communication from the commission was presented in the summer of 2004, both in the european parliament and in the council. as a result, today we have the contours of a reform that has to a very large extent been shaped by parliament. most obvious is that the entire reform is built on the basis of a restructuring fund, which was an idea originally introduced by the european parliament in the report by mr fruteau and mr daul at the beginning of last year. there are many other examples of the european parliament’s influence on this reform: the retention of the intervention system during a transitional period; the reduction of the price cuts and its extension over a four-year period with a generous compensation scheme; all the measures taken to more adequately ensure the management of supply; the possibilities of making a real difference in those areas that will be most affected by the restructuring; and the allocation of the restructuring aid, of which at least 10% would be reserved for sugar beet growers and machinery contractors – an amount that could be increased by member states according to their specific situations. all these fingerprints show that we have had collaboration that has gone beyond the expression of intention and has delivered a real political result. i want to express my sincere thanks to the european parliament for its cooperation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the reform of the sugar market is one of the major reforms of the common agricultural policy during this parliamentary term. it is a link between the wto requirements, the commitments under the everything but arms initiative and the panel decision on the one hand and the sugar beet/sugar cane farmers and related economic sectors in europe on the other. the commission, with commissioner fischer boel, parliament and above all the council are the ones most responsible for this wire rope operation. the number of farmers affected is estimated at 350 000 families and well over 100 000 workers in the eu's affected sectors. many sugar beet growers and factory workers still ask why such a massive reform of a sugar market regulation that has been in place for decades is necessary. the answer is quite simple: without reform, the sugar beet and cane production in the european union after 2009 would be completely in doubt, due to the international commitments already made years ago. with a reform of the sugar market regulation we have a chance of maintaining large shares of production in europe, even if this reform brings painful losses of income for sugar producers. the commission and the council of ministers, after the council agreement of 24 november, unfortunately gave the impression that the sugar market regulation had been adopted. mr fruteau has raised this. but this agreement was only a declaration of intent by the council, nothing more and nothing less. the council will not be able to adopt the sugar market reform definitively until the next council of ministers meeting on 19 february. i am pleased that the council of ministers has taken account of the demands in our resolution of 10 march 2005 in important parts. the commission has for example planned price reductions of up to 50% for sugar beet. for white sugar, the majority of the committee on agriculture and rural development has called for 30%. the council has agreed to 36%. the commission's proposal foresees a 60% compensatory payment, which the council intends to increase to 64.2%. it is also welcome that the reform is to be valid until 2014-2015 and that no quota transfers between member states will be required. i should like to take this opportunity to thank the new german minister for agriculture, horst seehofer. the commission's proposals for the reform of the cap have been adopted by the council and the council have been adopted by the commission. the restructuring fund is particularly in need of improvement. the council plans to allocate at least 10% of the restructuring funds to agriculture. the committee on agriculture and rural development calls for at least 50% to be used for agriculture to create production alternatives. i would ask you, commissioner fischer boel, and the council, to take parliament's vote into account when the council takes its final decision. the political blackmailing of ukraine by russia in the gas supply sector shows that we must take all the opportunities to make the european union a little more independent in the energy sector. agriculture in europe is able to produce energy in the form of biomass on agricultural land that is no longer used for food production. the commission and the council are called upon to support economically viable energy production with start-up funding from the restructuring fund. the commission and the council must do everything possible to prevent the so-called triangular transactions which have already been mentioned. as the shadow rapporteur for the epp-ed group, i would like to thank in particular the chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, mr joseph daul, and the rapporteur, mr fruteau, for their excellent cooperation on the report on the reform of the common organization of the market in sugar. i would also like to thank all the other colleagues who have worked constructively on this report. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the protection of the euro against counterfeiting.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we agree that the reform of the sugar market was necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, there were 5-6 million tonnes exported in excess of the quotas, and this led to a devastating dumping effect. the advantages of the acp countries, which were able to supply part of their sugar to us on our terms, were countered because we, by dumping on the world market, helped to bring down prices. so we agreed - but there were two different approaches. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas, which is being discussed in the committee on agriculture, is a very good one. we have had a long and hard debate in the committee. i don't think there's enough time for that. you have noticed that there is considerable opposition in parliament, and then you have bypassed parliament and reached an agreement with the council without listening to parliament. you knew that you could afford to do so because, firstly, you could assume that parliament had no say in the matter and, secondly, you distributed gifts to those whose interests were affected by this sugar market regulation. the biggest gift, the 6 billion in restructuring aid to industry, has created a different mood among the interest groups. that's how you got your reform through. the only point on which there is still a great deal of resistance is the question of how these restructuring funds are managed. we have put forward proposals. it is unacceptable that farmers should receive only 10% and that there should be no need to draw up farm and regional development plans which take account of social and environmental criteria and of the workforce. that is why my group will propose that we ask for referral back to committee at this point so that we can negotiate this matter with you and get something out of it for the farmers and the regions. if we let it go like this, no one will move a hand. i hope the other groups will follow us.
mr. president, you are going through the same thing as everyone else. you're talking too fast. you're reading your speeches too fast. the interpreters can't follow you. it's a waste of time. either you speak slowly or you speak freely. then you'll gain a lot more with what you're trying to convey.
the debate is closed until 9 p.m.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the text referred to by the honourable member is the text which i have called the report. the text now made available to the social partners is the original text under review. we expect to discuss this text with parliament. as regards statistical matters, they will be the subject of this report. now some things are not yet done, because statistical data is always very complicated in terms of interpretation. for the time being, the commission is of the opinion that there is no need for legislative changes to the directive but rather for a better application of the practical application of the directive, and i have described some of the steps that the commission has already taken in this regard.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, thank you for your clear words. i am correct in assuming that you do not consider quotas for third country workers to be the right way forward for the european internal market and that you will make a strong contribution to your work on the proposals for the revision of the posting of workers directive by including in your work the study from france which concludes that the existing system of the posting of workers directive in the member states does not work?
member of the commission. the honourable member, mrs batzeli, reminds us of the advantages of having transparency in this particular area of public procurement. however, as she will be aware, article 296 allows considerable discretion on the part of member states as to how they organise such activity. hopefully our recent communication of december 2005 and what we intend to do in cooperation with all stakeholders will open up that area even further.
member of the commission. i understand that the sum total of defence budgets in the eu is in the order of eur 169 billion, of which about eur 82 billion is for procurement. therefore, as the honourable member implies in his question, any opening-up of the market in this area could lead to very substantial savings on the defence budget of many member states, which would be much to the betterment of the public finances in all those member states. so there is indeed considerable potential in this area. on the other hand, if we are to open up this particular market even further, there must be cooperation among the member states as to how to proceed. i wish to put these facts on this house’s record just to show the amount of money involved in this area.
member of the commission. thank you for the question. the european neighbourhood policy has brought and will continue to bring ukraine closer to the european union. our cooperation with ukraine can be seen as most successful. the european neighbourhood policy action plan adopted in february 2005 has proved to be an essential and efficient tool for encouraging reform through deeper political cooperation and closer economic integration between the eu and ukraine. following the orange revolution, a renewed willingness on the ukrainian side to boost eu-ukraine cooperation could be observed. the implementation of the action plan by ukraine in the course of 2005 can be assessed positively. at the summit with ukraine in december 2005, president barroso confirmed progress by ukraine in political and economic reform. progress in the eu-ukraine relationship could be registered on economic integration; granting of market economy status by the eu to ukraine; cooperation in the key sectors of energy and transport; a memorandum of understanding on energy cooperation; justice and home affairs; the opening of visa facilitation negotiations in parallel to negotiations on a readmission agreement; as well as in the area of foreign and security policy, namely, the launching of the eu border assistance mission on the transnistrian segment of the ukraine-moldova border. however, important steps remain to be taken by ukraine in the implementation of the action plan, in areas such as the rule of law and in particular on the economic side: the fight against corruption; adopting relevant legislation for wto accession; and improving the business climate. the commission hopes to build on the additional impetus given by the summit – the first with a ukrainian government fully committed to reform – to the development of our relationship with ukraine. in february 2005 the eu committed to initiating early consultations on an enhanced agreement between the eu and ukraine as soon as the main political priorities of the action plan have been addressed. that commitment remains valid; when we are able to do so depends on ukraine and perseverance in the reform process to tackle outstanding issues. the march 2006 parliamentary elections will be an important test of ukraine's continued commitment to democracy and will be essential in opening further perspectives in the relationship with ukraine. the future relationship will be based on several essential conditions: the success of the political reform, respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, and wto membership, so as to fully integrate ukraine into the world market. this will also open up prospects for the establishment of a free trade area between the eu and ukraine. the way ahead lies in a close partnership with ukraine, based on common values and the objective of economic integration, as well as strengthened cooperation in a number of areas. the policy of constant progress and small, continued and common steps in the eu-ukraine relationship has proved to be successful over the past year since the orange revolution and will allow us to tackle the challenges ahead.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i regret that commissioner ferrero-waldner is not here - i do not think it is right that she is on the agenda - but i am glad that austrian-hungarian cooperation in the commission is working so well. i have two brief questions, commissioner. firstly, what kind of personnel and financial support do you think is possible next year to prevent the reform process in ukraine from failing or being overturned again, as certain neighbouring countries are apparently calculating? secondly, what is the commission doing in practice to improve transport links between the european union and ukraine and to develop common infrastructure concepts that will strengthen ukraine's connections with the west in terms of energy and transport?
the commission has already done so. the rapporteur, mr jean-claude fruteau, has to be thanked for his dedicated work in reaching an acceptable compromise. it was of course made more difficult by the fact that the agricultural council had taken a preliminary decision. we do not have a vote on this, but we can only accept this decision in the light of the wto negotiations in 2005. the compromise now reached remains a formidable challenge for those concerned, within the european union and also for the acp and ldc countries. despite compensation to those affected, there will be income losses in any case. many sugar beet-growing regions in the european union will in future be less able to grow sugar beet for food or will be able to do so in part. the commission should follow the committee on agriculture and rural development in this respect and consider how much more per hectare funding could be given to renewable raw materials. the committee on agriculture and rural development has put forward a number of proposals which i believe are close to those of the agricultural council. i hope that the compromise will be finally adopted, which will give beet growers planning certainty and will allow sugar beet to continue to be grown in the european union in spite of severe cuts. but the responsibility also lies with the managers of the sugar factories. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to increase transparency by involving the public more closely in the drafting of legislative texts. i welcome that very much. we as members of parliament depend on getting information from associations, associations, ngos and interested citizens and incorporating it into our legislative processes. only if we integrate the particular interests of the groups concerned into the compromise of the legislative text can we produce a good law. of course, it is necessary that the public should have access to information. i would also like to point out that this is extremely important. you need to get your shit together. i am naturally surprised that ngos and associations sometimes receive information from the commission before members of parliament, for example on reach; i've been able to discover the information from many before, but not in our mailboxes. i am not concerned about that, but what concerns me is the nature and form of the proposed amendments to this regulation. the fact that it is stated that non-governmental organisations, which are admittedly representing particular interests, can put their ideas into legislation, does not suggest that the european parliament should be treated with a high degree of suspicion. in general, every european institution seems to be under general suspicion. let me take you back to my past as a veterinarian. i mean, here we're castrating ourselves and disempowering ourselves. we question ourselves. i think that this cannot happen, and it would be a grave mistake to accept this proposal. we should oppose it here. i do not think that any ngo has the intention of influencing social developments in a harmful way. i also ask that parliament not be held responsible for not being up to the task. i am in favour of the council's proposal for the second reading. everything else is way too far. this concerns infringement procedures; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. it's not in the public interest.
the commission has already done so. i would ask you to make a clarifying statement at the end of this debate. i think there's a fundamental flaw in the discussion that night. the common position on which mrs korhola reports does not contain any provisions on access to justice. they have presented a scheme with access to the first part of the aarhus convention: access to information. the third pillar of the aarhus convention is not even mentioned here. i think there's been a mix-up. in my view, the possibility of applying for internal review provided for in the common position should not be confused with access to the courts. i am asking you to clarify this. i would also like to say that i believe it is absolutely essential that environmental ngos have access to courts at european level so that, in case of doubt, the actual implementation of european legislation on the ground can be verified. we have very good experience in germany with the right of association; there's not an abundance of lawsuits, there's targeted lawsuits. most of the lawsuits brought by associations there are successful.
member of the commission. mr president, i will be very brief. i would first like to thank the european parliament's delegation for taking part in the conciliation meeting with the council on 6 december 2005. i would like to thank in particular the vice-president, mrs roth-behrendt, and the rapporteur, mr jonas sjöstedt, whom i congratulate on the result. the discussions in the conciliation committee were constructive and i believe that parliament achieved concessions on the crucial issues of financial guarantees, drilling voids, transitional arrangements and accession countries and on a number of other important issues. the commission is very pleased to support the conciliation text and i hope that parliament will endorse the positive result achieved by its negotiating team.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. after a long journey and many pioneering discussions, we meet today in a sort of finale. there are only a few left. it's the third reading. i would like to thank our 'stepping stone', rapporteur jonas sjöstedt, who has used a lot of energy and expertise to maintain the momentum of the negotiations up to the conciliation committee. never lose sight of the goal, but also clearly see when the time is right for a conclusion and ultimately for final compromises jonas sjöstedt has succeeded in this. thank you very much for that. the directive on the management of waste from the extractive industries has thus been a success for the environment, but also for the economic operators in the mining industry and thus also for the people. environmental action is not just about doing nothing and making the untouched nature the standard of all things. rather, we humans have a - even a - biblical - commission: subdue the earth! europe is not characterised by its forests and unspoiled landscapes, but by its cultural landscape, which has developed over the centuries. this is to be used in accordance with the principle of sustainability by people for people. but any interference with nature has its side effects. it would be wrong to say that mining has no impact on nature and the environment. therefore, any intervention must be balanced between the benefits and the costs, between the costs and the benefits. today, thanks to positive developments, technological possibilities and increased environmental awareness, we are setting new standards than we were 50 years ago. for the safety of people and the preservation of our healthy environment, we must make use of these achievements. we must also continue to keep on the ball to seize new opportunities that will surely present themselves in five, 10 or even 20 years' time. it was the serious accidents in the metal mining industry in spain and romania over the last 10 years that had led parliament to call for this directive. we have them today, and i think we are on a positive path to do good for the environment and for people here. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank mr maaten for his good work and for the negotiations with the ep delegation up to the third reading. i shall confine myself to some medical aspects of the directive. bathing water is not germ-free but germ-free. bathing water should in principle be of drinking quality, since, after all, many bathers and swimmers also drink bathing water. we have in southern germany, for example, one of the largest drinking water reservoirs in europe, lake constance. it should be noted, however, that drinking water is not entirely free of germs, but only germ-free, and that our entire human life is accompanied daily by many germs, although with different pathogenicity. the level of protection we are now achieving with this directive is certainly not perfect, but it is a first step in the right direction. the limits now agreed, 330 for inland waters and 185 for coastal waters, for the 'sufficient' category, reduce the risk of health hazards for bathers from 12% to 8%, and health hazards do not automatically mean illness. the same applies to the e. coli bacteria, which number 900 and 500 respectively. standardized laboratory methods are as self-evident to me as uniform quality of sampling. my main concern is to provide citizens with timely and adequate information and to achieve 'excellent' quality in all our waters. the second objective must be to control the increasingly important viral load of water, initially under strict scientific supervision. for example, the number of enterovirus and norovirus infections is increasing rapidly in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. i agree with the directive.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the bathing water directive - and i echo what mr ulmer has just said - represents a difficult balance between consumer protection for bathers on the one hand and nature conservation and tourism on the other for my constituency, which is situated directly on lake constance. the compromise we have found in the 'sufficient' category, as mr ulmer has called it, on pollution conditions and quality standards is a fair compromise between all three interests which are in conflict there. that is why i have found a great deal of acceptance for this compromise in my own country. i am very grateful to all my colleagues, including the rapporteur, for this. it is also important to note that the reduction of 19 categories of offenders to only two is a solution which also serves the objective of better legislation and less bureaucracy. this is a good example of the fact that we are all trying to reduce the too many regulations that have existed in the past in many places to the really important points. i would also like to thank all those involved very warmly. the scope of the directive as a whole is very satisfactory in our view. it is very gratifying that the european parliament has not stuck to its original intention to extend the scope of the bathing water directive to other water-related leisure activities. i thank all my colleagues for that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am grateful to the commission for the opportunity to speak at this late hour on a report which is indeed very important and interesting. i would like to agree with mrs scheele at the outset that indeed all the policies which the european union is supporting are and must be governed by the principles of sustainability. this is undoubtedly the case with finance, and so we should not only be concerned about where we can spend more money, but we should also be concerned about how we can save the young generation from too much debt - while at the same time perhaps shifting the focus of financial planning. the debt that the member states leave to the young generation is certainly not sustainable. i would like to comment on a point which i consider to be very important in the context of this directive. firstly, i believe that strengthening ownership by improving cooperation with the actors in this field is an important element with which we actually strengthen the understanding at the grassroots level that sustainability is not a hollow principle that we just hold up in beautiful sunday speeches, as colleagues here have said, but that it concerns every individual in a very concrete way. i would like to touch on a specific point here, namely the financing of natura 2000 sites. of course, we know that we in western europe have a very high level of prosperity, and that is not a gift from god. when farmers suddenly see large parts of their land in natura 2000 areas restricted and protected, it is very difficult to promote sustainability. we need to show these farmers, whether by compensation or by giving them the opportunity to earn their money in some other way, that sustainability is also good for them. that is why we must state in this directive that an effective funding system for the natura 2000 network is needed. i therefore support this directive.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i have the honour to welcome you to the house this morning. it is a great pleasure to be able to speak before the european parliament. it is an honour for the austrian presidency of the six-month period to be able to present the programme briefly here. the european parliament is a very special institution because it represents in a unique way the strength of the new europe. this parliament emerged from a historic election in 2004. for the first time, 25 countries were free to vote; the european parliament has been elected by the people and represents the european people. the division of europe has thus been finally overcome, although the reunification of europe is still in full swing. this parliament is a magnificent example of the greatest strength of this new europe, a diversity of ideas and experiences, its history, including histories and hopes. we know that the sound of europe is not a solo instrument but an orchestra, as is this parliament. the colour of europe is not monochrome but colourful, as is the logo, the symbol of the austrian presidency. and it is this strength, this diversity, these different identities of europe that make up the identity of europe. no country has lost by joining this european union. everyone has benefited. we have won freedom, peace, security and opportunities for prosperity. but you may well ask: if everything is so great, why is there so much scepticism among so many citizens? we must be very careful and honest in our analysis. the historic highs of 2004 were followed by a particularly difficult phase. two negative constitutional referenda in france and the netherlands after three years of intensive negotiations on a new constitution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there have been terrorist attacks in some eu capitals, growing public concern about new eu enlargements and a real trust gap between the citizens of europe and its institutions. we have therefore decided to take up the austrian presidency here. we want to see the confidence of citizens in europe, the confidence between the member states and the confidence between the institutions, grow again at the end of our presidency. if we are to achieve this, we must first find clarity on the important questions that move people. a friend of mine, the great austrian quantum physicist anton zeilinger, brought to my attention a point in physics that i was so unaware of, and which actually fascinated me very much. he says, "the question is the most important. in quantum physics, this is even more radical than in the general worldview context. the question creates reality, and the nature of the question determines the quality of reality". so we're going to have to ask these questions first. they must be honest and we must also be aware of the unpleasant perspective of these questions. we will not have satisfactory answers everywhere. we must also beware of shortcuts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and we're helped by a lot of real threats. when we took office on 1 january this year, the new year's concert was held in vienna, where we tried to spread a little optimism and also joy to the world. just as latvian conductor maris janssons was starting to turn the clock back, the russians cut gas supplies by 30% first and then by 50% on the night of january 1st and 2nd. martin bartenstein, minister for economic affairs, energy and labour, was then given the task of finding solutions with the partners, the ukrainians, the russians and the european partners, as well as commissioner piebalgs. this example in particular has shown us that a subject which has hitherto been largely reserved for national competence can only be solved at european level in important matters. we need more europe here. (applause from the centre) if the question of reducing dependence on one supplier, diversification, the creation of sufficient reserves and the security of the energy networks is at stake - which, incidentally, is only possible if we encourage long-term investment, if we also allow long-term supply links and contracts - then the short-term profit of the next quarter is not the question, but long-term solutions for europe are the only answer. but it's also about alternatives. i have always fought for the idea that each country should and must choose its own energy sources. we have chosen our path which does not include nuclear technology and its peaceful uses, and i will stick to it. but i will also fight to ensure that every country retains its freedom of choice. (applause from the centre) i think we have to be very careful not to slide down one-sidedly. we must work together at european level to put european safety standards at the forefront, and we must pay more attention than ever to renewable energy and to the exploitation of all the possibilities that are important to us and our environment. (applause from the centre) this question of energy security will be a very important topic at the european spring summit. i would also like to thank the british presidency for having made this a major issue, with a wide-ranging and keen eye for future developments in hampton court. we will also be working very closely with the commission on this. other topics include the fight against avian influenza and the resolute opposition to iran's nuclear disarmament programme. the only thing that can help is more europe and european solidarity on the world stage, so that we can give people in the world, and in europe in particular, security. the second very important issue that moves people is growth and jobs. it is the central theme of the spring summit, because without jobs, without the prospect of having work, the unease of the citizens of europe is clearly growing. many people feel that europe is doing too little for us here. there are now 25 reform programmes on the table. the commission will now assess them. we have decided to make a mixture here: concrete, verifiable commitments by the 25 member states, plus recommendations from the commission, so that we can get to a concrete stage of action and visible results. no politician can promise jobs today. this is not serious. but we can create the right conditions for something to work. everyone knows, and you know best, that with 1% of europe's gdp - that is the budget - or with 1.045% or 1.1% you cannot create millions of jobs. but we can set examples, we can review the commitments of the member states. we can put some new topics on the european agenda which have perhaps been less taken into account so far. one of these issues for me is the promotion of smes and smes. many small and mediumsized enterprises used to complain that they were not taken into account enough, that they had too little access to capital and to the programmes of the european union. but we must remember that smes can be the only real job creators at european level. the smes are a sleeping giant that we must wake up. the commission's programme for smes will require smes to have access to capital markets and to research and development. they need access and consideration in the context of regional support for structural programmes. the better regulation programme should also reduce red tape, especially for smes. cutting red tape is especially in demand there. another major source of strength which is not sufficiently exploited is the european social partners. i can say from our austrian experience that democracy and the market economy can only function with free, strong and independent social partners. the austrian model is certainly interesting. not that this happens without discussion - there is a lot of discussion, sometimes even dispute. it would be absurd to think that in a democracy something like this would go without controversy. they're often a vitamin boost for a debate. i would also like to invite the european social partners under our presidency to work together on such solutions - jobs, growth, energy security - and i have already had very good discussions with the european trade union confederation and the employers' organisation unice. the services directive will be very important. i know that this parliament has been dealing with this question intensively for many months. with over a thousand amendments, you can see for yourself how difficult it is to combine the opening up of such a large market share with the guarantees which the citizens expect from us. it is quite clear and necessary that the opening up of markets must be accompanied by a determined fight against social dumping and the protection of public services and the services to which we are accustomed at the local level. we need that balance. openness and protection - that's what's expected. i would like to see the social partners on our side to ensure that a proper balance is struck. the key to all of this, of course, is sufficient growth. we must not be under any illusions about that. the spring summit must be devoted primarily to growth-enhancing impulses. this includes research, infrastructure, but also enlargement. enlargement, done wisely and correctly, can be a growth strategy for europe and also for our industries in the old member states. if we had 3% growth, coupled with at least 1% employment growth, that would mean halving the unemployment rate from the current 19 million people in five years. that's a huge goal. if we also create a strengthening of skills and flexibility, we can achieve this. this must be the real work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the negotiation of the financial perspective for the next seven years will of course be a very important subject for the commission, the council and the european parliament. i don't want to hide it. we need and seek your cooperation, because seven years of financial forecasts are unusual, because normally we have annual or biennial budgets. of course, this brings security and predictability. i know that many in the european parliament are not satisfied with what the european council, after much effort, was able to decide in december. but i also say quite frankly that if you want more research, you must start with national budgets. if we were to take seriously what we member states have already decided, namely 3% of the national budget by 2010, that would not mean 200 billion euros a year for research, but 50% more, that is 300 billion euros more - far more than even an ambitious budgetary target would mean. we are reaching a limit - and i say this openly - in the financial perspective. if we continue to have to or want to use national budgets to finance the membership contributions for european tasks, this will be the last time we have put together a financial perspective. i am going to say quite frankly now something that perhaps not everyone likes to hear: europe needs more self-financing. we cannot cut everything out of the national budgets, which are already stretched to the limit. we then come right into this unfortunate tension between net payers and net receivers. who wins, who loses? the idea of greater self-financing may not be popular everywhere, but my job as president of the council is not to say something popular here, but what is necessary. i think we have to be careful about that, and i know that commission president barroso feels the same way. it is the commission's task to bring all these issues to the table in the 2008/9 review. it is absurd that today short-term financial speculation is completely tax-free. it is unacceptable that there are tax loopholes and that international air or sea transport is virtually tax free. europe cannot stand by and watch while important tasks cannot be financed. i therefore ask the commission to include this issue in the review and i also ask the european parliament very openly for support. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i see in the front row the foreign affairs commissioner, mrs benita ferrero-waldner, and the esteemed javier solana, our foreign affairs commissioner, who often have to go around with their hats in their hands to raise money for vital peace missions because we have not had the courage to discuss these issues sufficiently. the new europe you represent also needs a new unity between the institutions. it is not necessary for the council, the commission, parliament or the member states to criticize each other. we're all in the same boat, and we're all rowing in the same direction. not head to head confrontation, but hand in hand cooperation that is my principle and my motto for this presidency. we must listen to citizens who complain about the misuse of eu funds and the waste of some programmes. there are recipes for that, namely independent control. we must listen when some people call for greater transparency in european decisions, for example when the council acts as legislator or when they call for the public disclosure of the granting of subsidies so that it is known who has actually benefited. why not? - why not? all this should be published. it is european taxpayers' money. we're going to work together on this. and it is important to listen to some citizens who ask us: for the economy, it may work quite well. but what about the protection of the little people? where is the social cohesion? where's the attention for the weak? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. other finding a balance between social values and the power of the market economy, and recognising social issues as a development factor and not as a by-product of the economy. i find that incredibly interesting. this is precisely the motto which ultimately defines our european model of life and with which we also enter the future of the european debate, with which i wish to conclude. in the first half of the year to the june summit we will have to have this discussion about the future of europe. we have had the task since last june in the austrian presidency, here together with the european parliament, with the commission - we also ask for your input - to have such a discussion with the national parliaments and, of course, with the european public. i know that parliament will take a very balanced and good decision today or tomorrow on the basis of a report by the committee on constitutional affairs. i take this very seriously in the austrian presidency. this cannot be an elitist discourse. europe is for everyone. there is a longing for participation and participation among many european citizens. it's not just a text. it 's about a lot more than that . it is about europe's identity: what unites us? what is it that holds us together on the inside? it is a question of fair division of labour: what can and must europe really do? if you want to solve the big questions, you have to have your hands free. only the one who lets go has his hands free. if we want to solve the big questions seriously, we must be prepared to hand over smaller questions to other institutions. the word subsidiarity comes into play here, a word we use again and again in our sunday speeches. we must fill it with life. we shall also hold a very specific conference on this after easter. it is also about the borders of europe. in practical terms, this means that the criteria for the admissibility of the union are being considered. the frontiers of europe must not be drawn by surveyors or geographers. this is a political issue. this political issue must be translated into the question of reception capacity. it is also about europe's visibility in the world and within it. i think it would be wrong if we were to meet only in brussels or here in strasbourg. europe must also be visible on the periphery, in the other areas. we, as the presidency, see how interesting it is for citizens to see, to experience, to understand, to feel that europe is not afraid to go out and seek contact with the citizens. attacks must also be possible at times for this european model to work. it is a european way of life. i have never understood why americans are allowed to speak proudly of their american way of life, and why only we europeans never dare to bring this european way of life to our forefront openly, offensively and proudly: peace, security, democracy, human rights, solidarity and quality of life are not taken for granted, and they do not all come at zero cost. we will therefore try to present a roadmap with timetables or an interim report by june. controversy and different contributions to the debate are not only welcome, but also welcome. the worst thing would be if i were to start a discussion here and no one came or participated. martin buber said, "everyone is called to bring something to perfection in the world". this is particularly true of europe. europe is teamwork. the british have been in charge before us. we are building on their work and will be holding a joint presidency this year with the finns, with whom we have been coordinating very well. we want to be a reliable partner for you in the european parliament and for you in the commission. i look forward to working with you and i hope that we can bring joy and pleasure to the citizens outside of our work together. have a good day. (applause from the centre)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to speak today on the occasion of the presentation of the work programme of the austrian presidency. we all know the skills and traditions of austrian diplomacy. let me say that i have long known chancellor schüssel's intelligence and dedication to the european cause. i am particularly pleased that this presidency can already start with a clear outlook on the financial perspective, thanks to the agreement reached at the european council in december. as i have already said, this agreement was an important moment for europe, where it was able to demonstrate that it remains effective and relevant. it has helped to create a relatively optimistic climate in this pivotal year of 2006. it is now necessary to continue this dynamic and make it a reality. if the council took a step forward in december, it is now up to us collectively to take the next step, namely that we must move very rapidly in the negotiation and conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement. i have been saying for months that the agreement of the three institutions is necessary and that good cooperation between them is essential. now we have to join the gesture to the word. in this context, let me emphasize in particular actions relating to citizenship, in particular culture and youth. further efforts are needed in this area to meet our common commitment to bringing our action closer to our citizens and to highlight the european dimension. as from 1 february, the commission will propose an amended draft interinstitutional agreement which will serve as a basis for our negotiations. as you know, apart from the question of resources, there are still important points on which the commission has exercised all its influence which need to be clarified: greater flexibility and responsiveness of our resources, the creation of a fund for adjustment to globalisation, provision for a revision clause. the commission considers that these elements of flexibility will be essential to reach agreement between the three institutions. we must also work together to adopt a package of legislative proposals which will translate the interinstitutional agreement into action once it has been adopted. here again, an effort will be needed at the level of the council's groups, parliamentary committees and commission departments. it's a real challenge, but we can't ignore it. we must ensure that the union is operational by 1 january 2007. if we fail to meet the deadlines, we run the serious risk of delaying the implementation of the structural funds, which are essential elements of solidarity in the enlarged europe. ladies and gentlemen, the year ahead is one for europe, rich in opportunities but heavy in responsibilities. the presidency will be able to count fully on the support and cooperation of the commission. we see a profound synergy between the austrian presidency's programme and the objectives pursued by the commission since it took office, and in particular its strategic objectives. europe, with its culture and values, can only progress if it is able to make progress in three areas simultaneously: economic performance, social cohesion and the sustainable management of its resources. to achieve this, europe needs a genuine partnership involving all actors. we need everyone's contribution if europe is to unlock its full potential. mr president, growth and jobs are the core preoccupation of our citizens. we must show them that europe can deliver a credible response to their concerns. the spring european council in march is the first real test of the determination of all actors to move forward towards economic reform and modernisation. member states have drawn up their national reform programmes. the commission is finalising its assessment of those programmes and will report to the spring european council. i would like to thank the european parliament for its support and look forward to continuing to work closely with you on the growth and jobs agenda. the parliamentary dimension of the lisbon agenda is not window dressing but an essential element in promoting and ensuring support for the implementation of the necessary reforms. in that sense, we can say that the revised lisbon agenda has already been successful. it has managed to create a common vision and a strong consensus. no one seriously continues to dispute that the priority should be on growth for jobs. it is now time to turn words into deeds, vision into action. the message we need from the spring european council is that europe has made a credible commitment to structural reforms and is determined to exploit fully all its potential for growth and more and better jobs. we therefore welcome the austrian presidency's willingness to inject new dynamism into the discussion of some pending proposals that are key to the success of the lisbon strategy, including the services directive. the establishment of a well-functioning internal market in the area of services is a key opportunity to free up the potential of europe. the commission will cooperate fully with the presidency and parliament to seek political agreement on directives between the council and parliament. i welcome the fact that parliament is actively preparing the ground for a balanced approach, that is to say, an approach which will apply the treaty provisions on trade in services while, at the same time, ensuring compliance with the working and employment conditions for posted workers and recognising the specific nature of services of general interest. to this end, i believe the role of the european social partners can be a crucial one. we will be calling on our social partners for a joint contribution to a balanced and ambitious solution for the services sector. let us be frank about this: the services sector and small and mediumsized enterprises are the most important drivers for the creation of jobs in europe. they should receive the support they deserve from political leaders. progress on the revised lisbon agenda will have to factor in the work undertaken as a follow-up to the hampton court meeting. this covers key areas like research and development, universities, demographic change, energy, migration, security and the role of europe in the world. the commission will propose new initiatives in the fields of research and education, preparing the establishment of a european institute of technology and furthering work on the mutual comparability and recognition of qualifications. we will provide a focus for debate on demographic change and on its implications for a fairer work/life balance. we shall also present a roadmap for gender equality which will look at different european union policies and see how they can contribute to reducing gender gaps in employment or unemployment conditions and to addressing the phenomenon of violence against women and trafficking. we will seek to strengthen the effectiveness of the european union in pursuing its external objectives and interests by increasing the coherence of our action. energy issues mark the debut of this presidency, and i want to thank the austrian presidency for its excellent cooperation in dealing with the recent gas dispute between russia and ukraine. energy issues will remain a dominant theme of our future agenda. the recent crisis and persistently high oil prices teach a lesson to those who normally resist and obstruct the provision of a european dimension for energy policy and to all those who always resist a european dimension in politics and policy-making. europe must have an improved, more coordinated energy policy based on the principles of diversification of sources, security of supply and sustainability. well before hampton court, when leaders clearly stressed the need for a new approach, the commission announced a green paper on secure, competitive and sustainable energy policy. we are also preparing a series of new initiatives on energy efficiency and clean technologies. we will take up the debate initiated with the biomass action plan and complement it with a communication on biofuels. finally, we will put forward ideas for developing a real pan-european energy market, enhancing cooperation with our neighbouring countries. this is an example of common sense driving a common approach, where no option should be excluded. national leaders and citizens see the sense of a common, coherent european policy. now is the time for the european institutions to play their role with ambition and rigour. i look forward to working with you over the coming months to give shape to european energy policy. this brings me to another important point. the commission has presented sustainable development as an overarching objective and, last december, presented a communication on the review of the sustainable development strategy. we welcome the fact that the austrian presidency has chosen to put that at the top of its priorities. this will provide the momentum needed to complete the preparation of a new european union sustainable development strategy. the commission document is an ambitious and concrete one. it offers a long-term vision for addressing issues such as climate change, preservation of natural resources, social exclusion and world poverty. it sets clear objectives, realistic targets and procedures for monitoring and measuring progress. it identifies involving all stakeholders not only institutions, but business too in a real partnership as a priority. regional authorities and citizens should work together to deliver concrete results. another issue that will remain high up on the european agenda in the coming months is security. i am pleased to see that the austrian presidency's priorities in the area of freedom, justice and security are in line with those of the commission. the translation of the aid programme into practical measures remains our common priority. in the area of migration, we will continue the debate launched by the policy plan on legal migration, adopted in december 2005, and come forward with proposals on the long-term resident status of persons in need of international protection. during this semester we shall also table a green paper on drugs and civil society, a proposal on the applicable law in divorce matters, and a green paper on conflict of law in the area of matrimonial property regimes. the commission will present the first implementation report on the hague action plan. we look forward to achieving significant progress on those important issues during the austrian presidency. one last priority that i want to comment on is our relations with our neighbors. the year 2006 will be a decisive period. in the spring, the commission will review the progress made by bulgaria and romania in preparing for accession and assess the level of their readiness to join the union. on the western balkans, we welcome the priority set by the austrian presidency. since 2003 the countries of the western balkans have had a clear european perspective. that process is critical for ensuring peace and stability in europe. the commission attaches great importance to the careful monitoring of the situation in the region and the region's relationship with the union. that is why i have decided to personally visit the region in the coming weeks. europe also needs to prepare to take greater responsibility in kosovo. as discussions on kosovo's future status reach a critical stage, the european union has to show that it is able to bring a concrete contribution to a complex and delicate issue. last year, heads of state and government launched a period of reflection on the future of europe. citizens, civil society and political actors are expressing and debating their views, expectations and ideas. the commission is playing its part fully, implementing plan d for democracy, dialogue and debate. i am pleased to report that members of the commission made a total of 68 visits to national parliaments during 2005, explaining our policies and their added value to european citizens, and listening, because a process of dialogue is not just about explaining; it is also, and above all, about listening to the message citizens give us. the european parliament, with its counterparts in the national parliaments, is putting its weight behind this debate. the commission is ready to cooperate fully with its initiatives. european leaders before us were prepared to dream of what could be. they had the courage of their european convictions. they opened a pathway to reconciliation and progress for europe which none had walked before. today we are the beneficiaries of that legacy and of their foresight. however, at a time when past achievements and current freedoms are so easily discounted, we cannot take future public consent for granted. it must be earned. my vision is of a stronger europe which provides a solid political, economic and social framework for our citizens, a europe based on culture, a europe based on common values. it is of a europe of democracy, accountability and transparency. in our troubled world today, we more than ever need a strong european union, a european union which promotes security, human rights and respect for the rule of law. following the june european council, the commission will take stock of the preliminary results of the public debate and of the discussions under plan d. we also intend, at the request of the austrian presidency, to propose an agenda for further debate and action at european level. this will provide a basis for the heads of state and government to determine the way forward for the union with a renewed commitment to translate our common objectives into actions. the union's main asset is a core of common values and a rich culture which should inspire our reflection on the future of europe. institutions are important, of course they are, but institutions are instruments for achieving our goals and we should not forget the main goals of our project. we need to provide determined leadership and reinforced consensus to bring europe forward together. we need to concentrate on the essentials. we need to focus on delivery. we need to communicate our public purpose in plain and meaningful terms. i will conclude by saying, as i told chancellor schüssel when i and other commissioners visited him in vienna, that i think it was a great decision by the austrian presidency to choose all the beautiful and bright colours of europe as its logo. i believe it is now time for us to do away with grey and black colours, to insist on the possibilities of such diversity of europe and to use these very important six months of the austrian presidency to show our renewed commitment to a europe that belongs to the future and believes in that future. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! mr president of the european council, we expect a lot from you, because europe - as you yourself have said - needs confidence and progress. we have high expectations of you and your presidency not because of abstract ideas but because we have a well-founded hope that you will approach your task rationally, that is to say, with ambition but also with realism. i remember well when austria held the council presidency in 1998. we find in the leaders of your country, and particularly in you, a strong european vision, but not limited to rhetoric, but committed to europe. and you are competent. i think that in this merger we can hopefully say at the end of your presidency: it was a successful presidency. it is still too early, but the conditions are good. you mentioned a term which i consider to be the key term in europe. this is the confidence of citizens in the european institutions, but also - and this is where it has to start - the confidence of government leaders in each other. i really hope that you will also be able to present the european council and the governments as a decisive body that is working together to move europe forward, and that not every head of government sees his supposed national interests and thus puts europe before the dogs. we must begin to act in the european council on the basis of confidence in europe. (applause from the centre) we in europe must know: without europe there will be no answer to the great challenges. europe is not the answer to all challenges, but without europe there will be no answer to the great challenges. the commission president has said that the european institutions are a means to an end. yes, that's right! and that means that we need the european institutions so that some governments do not feel they have to dictate the direction of europe. this is not limited to the big countries. we in the epp-ed group are opposed to a europe dominated by the big countries. but we also say: if we heard only yesterday or the day before yesterday from the dutch foreign minister that the european constitution is dead, then that is exactly the kind of claim of dominance that all other europeans should follow this country. that is why we will not accept this. (applause from the centre) you spoke of employment, the economy and growth. we are underlining everything you have said, but when we talk about supporting smes, it is not about subsidies. the smes are concerned with relief from taxation and bureaucracy. if we can achieve this through european and national frameworks, then jobs can also be created. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. (applause from the centre) this means, of course, that we are in favour of european legislation, including the services directive. you spoke of openness and protection. that is the balance we must find. we are working on this in the european parliament and i hope that we will be able to reach an acceptable solution at the first reading in february. (interruption of the debate) i am glad that my socialist colleague agrees with me, but i would never presume to speak for his group. he'll do it himself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we need the european single market as a response to globalisation. (applause from the centre) on the constitution, we ask you to draw up a roadmap so that we can finally reach a result on this issue that all the countries of the european union can support, because we - i say this on behalf of the epp part of our group - are deeply convinced that we need the constitution. my final point: we have been talking about energy. of course, energy is also about our own supply, about ourselves and about our prosperity. but our prosperity is nothing in the end if it is not based on democracy. that is why we will not allow a g8 member country to differentiate in pricing between countries like ukraine, which are democracies, and countries like belarus, which are ruled by a terrible dictator who gets cheaper gas. we will not be party to this, but we will be advocates for all our neighbours on the basis of a sound social development, on the basis of democracy, the rule of law and human dignity. we wish you the best of luck. (applause from the right)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. mr chancellor, the speech alone has the charm of dreamed-up nostalgia for a german social democrat. i listened to you very carefully and i must say that your speech is impressive, especially in terms of form. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but appearances are deceiving, as you yourself must have bitterly experienced and know. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the council has not yet taken a decision on the budgetary procedure, and whether it is not already in the process of being discussed. but first, i want you to explain to me later what the new year's concert has to do with the gas cut in russia. they said the conductor had barely raised the clock at the new year's concert when they turned off the gas. and worse, they said that when the concert was over, they canceled it for good. so, what connection does the new year's concert have with gas supplies to europe, we have to talk again. mr chancellor, you have mentioned three perspectives. you said that the people of europe want growth and jobs. yes, you are right: growth and jobs! and the citizens of europe do not want mr solana and mrs ferrero-waldner to have to walk around with their hats on when we have to stabilise the gaza strip with our activities, when we want to contribute to peace in the middle east, when we want to have a stabilising effect in the vulnerable regions of the world. it is also true that we have the citizens of europe on our side when we promote what was decided in vienna on sunday: an effective fight against terrorism, an efficient european police force which can help the national police forces in the fight against organised crime. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. and that is why the european parliament, in its financial perspective, in the böge report, has placed greater growth and employment, greater security within europe and greater security in the world through europe at the centre of its financial proposals. let us compare our proposals with what you decided in the council in december. for growth and employment in relation to the figures of the european parliament: minus 35 billion! for internal security, efficiency in police cooperation: minus 7.8 billion! the commission is not prepared to accept this. you have made massive cuts in all the areas you describe here as your future tasks for your presidency of the council, with your own voice. and that is precisely the crisis of europe: your promises in the council and the subsequent unfulfilled deeds, that is the crisis of europe! (applause from the centre) mr president of the commission, i am addressing you: i cannot understand you, i must tell you that. the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. and you have asked for much more money in your budget proposal: you have asked for 1 022 billion euros as the commission's necessary financial resources over the next seven years to meet these tasks. 862 billion comes out of that, that's 160 billion difference, which you call a big success. i can't understand this! we want a deal, mr. bowl! we want europe to be designed efficiently. it doesn't have to be with more and more money. if there is no more money to be mobilised, we accept this. but then the structures for spending must be organised in such a way that the objectives you have described are achieved. what we have achieved is that it stays within the structure of this budget. it also remains that in addition to the pythagorean theorem there is now the blair theorem. tony blair is actually nominated for the nobel prize in mathematics: the slowest increase in a sum is the reduction in the sum thunder! since we are in the year of mozart, mr chancellor, i have thought that what the council is proposing is actually well described by osmin. in the aria by osmin in mozart's wonderful opera 'the abduction from the seraglio', osmin says a quote that is really appropriate for the european council: i know your tricks, your schemes, your tricks, your weaknesses. (applause from the centre) but the european parliament must add what it says next: 'to cheat me, you have to get up early, i have brains too.' the european parliament is ready to work with you to achieve the objectives you have described, but with the necessary means and the necessary structures. let's negotiate this together. and, mr president of the commission, you are right: europe needs less grey, europe needs less black, europe needs more red! (applause from the left)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! you have a lot of important tasks to do in the next six months. you have listed these tasks and they concern mainly our daily work here. but i think you have a much more fundamental task to tackle, namely to rediscover the european identity. the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe. they must seek answers to the question: is europe worth living for me as a citizen, as a private citizen? is it worth it politically, is it worth it financially? how is europe actually visible in my daily life? where can i prove that i am european? therefore, have an open discussion! let there be controversy, because i am convinced that those who do not allow criticism, but ignore it, do europe more harm than its critics. but also have the courage to do something unusual. i must say, i really like your artistic activities. you are the boss of felix austria. you're a team player. they're used to playing with hard bandages after all, 50% of your ministers are women. so, spray the european spirit of life! that would be a success. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i welcome the change of the austrian presidency. perhaps there will finally be concrete policy and not just all the air bubbles we had under the british presidency. but your programme for the eu presidency, mr schüssel, is particularly appalling in the field of foreign and military policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european parliament, the council and the commission. okay, but the old constitutional treaty is dead. all that's left is the date for the funeral. on the other hand, the parts of the constitutional treaty which are needed for military policy are already being implemented, and that is simply without ratification. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. two examples: efforts should be made to ensure that the combat unit is operational as from 1 january 2007. the commission is also proposing to set up a european defence agency. mr schüssel, do not give the eu a military face. give the eu a civil face!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr chancellor, we are about to discuss the financial perspective. you said at the beginning that you knew the annual budget from home. we have that at european level too. we are simply trying to establish common rules for a period of seven years, in the framework of a voluntary interinstitutional agreement between parliament and the council, both as regards the amount of the funds and the way in which they are to be used. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that would be the end! any parliament which would do so would be calling into question one of its fundamental rights and would not be meeting its corresponding needs and tasks. we're going to take a hard look at your results. we have just adopted the 2006 budget a few weeks ago. it represents 1.09% of the gross national product. you said in the council that we could do with 1.045%, so considerably less, in the future. but at the same time we have great tasks to accomplish. but then either they cannot be funded sufficiently - and we would have to disappoint people accordingly - or we have to think about how we can maintain flexibility so that we can meet our commitments. their approach - to reduce the number - means that we have to make decisions: what are the areas where you really want to cut back? in the fight against terrorism? i hear europol is to be strengthened. air safety, which we're setting up an agency for? i think we should not be so cheap. the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the european economy, and the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the european economy. but this exchange is necessary! research, you said, should be nationalised. satellite navigation, large lasers, neutron sources, genome banks - all of which are national? i don't think we're getting anywhere with this. we have worked very hard to put a good proposal on the table here. we will negotiate with you in confidence and with seriousness about what is feasible. i think we should all as europeans reflect on what this europe is really worth to us. let's not throw billions at each other. i have calculated for our german colleagues - my fellow citizens - that we propose that each german citizen should spend 10 euros a month in future to make this work. i am not saying that the european parliament is not a political body, but that it is a political body.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in consultation with the liberals and the epp, i would like to change our proposal, at the request of the epp, from 'non-uk consumers' to 'non-european citizens'. i do not need to explain this; it is clear that the 'non-european citizens' is much broader than if it only refers to the 'consumers'. in consultation with the liberals, i would like to change uk legislation to uk and/or eu legislation. it is not necessary to justify this; it is clear what is at issue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to express my opposition to this motion by mr costa on behalf of the socialist group. i would like to justify this with two sentences. i shall begin with the last point raised by mr costa. the atmosphere which prevailed here the day before yesterday was, for the most part, that of a normal demonstration by men and women who feel threatened in their social security. (applause from the centre and the right) these men and women can count on us. the only people who cannot count on us socialists are those who never listen to the end, and those who believe that they can make policy by force. they don't have our solidarity. that was the minority, and their actions are not acceptable. (applause from the centre) mr president, the port package is ready for a vote and it is ready for a vote against, and that is why we ask for a vote now. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to make it clear that if you want to reject the port package, you have to vote yes on the first ballot, say yes to the rejection, to avoid any ambiguity. please vote yes on the first ballot! yes to the rejection!
in writing. the european parliament's joint resolution on afghanistan is particularly appalling in that it contains no criticism of western military operations. instead, it supports the nato operation (international security assistance force) isaf and the so-called war on terror - operation enduring freedom (oef). the greens' demand that the command structures of isaf and oef should be separated is completely inadequate. the isaf and oef are closely integrated on the ground. the expansion of the isaf mission in southern afghanistan into a more open combat zone will further exacerbate the war effort. the strong presence of european troops in afghanistan will relieve the us troops and thus the occupying forces in iraq. the closure of military bases which are the only means of ensuring the presence of troops in afghanistan is also necessary. in particular, the termez military base of the german bundeswehr in uzbekistan must be closed. termez is the main supply route for all troops stationed in afghanistan. cooperation with uzbekistan is a scandal. uzbekistan is ruled by an authoritarian regime, which is responsible in particular for the andischan massacre. the dismantling of the military bases in afghanistan is also overdue in view of the recent bombing of a pakistani village by cia units, which is contrary to international law.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament! it is a great pleasure to speak to you today for the first time in this chamber and to meet you. i am particularly pleased that the interinstitutional dialogue which must be conducted between the various institutions is a subject where cooperation is particularly important. it is true - as the two rapporteurs have already said - that 2005 was a difficult year. mr voggenhuber even used the word crisis. we are in fact facing a crisis of confidence with the european citizens. we must answer the legitimate questions of the citizens. i also agree with mr duff that this crisis of confidence, this doubt about the european project, is an opportunity for us all. we must all together - the commission, parliament and the council - seize this opportunity. i should like to thank parliament in particular for having dealt with this question at a time when governments were not yet ready to start a serious debate. the duff/voggenhuber report has been the subject of a debate in this parliament which will help us. the austrian presidency has made every effort from day one to take up this debate, to continue it and to intensify it. you've all noticed that this debate has been very heated from the beginning. the whole range of opinions was expressed, as is also reflected in the report adopted by the committee on constitutional affairs. one thing is clear: there are no easy solutions, no tricks or shortcuts to bridge this gap of trust between europe and its citizens in a hurry. the only way to have a serious and long-term impact is to deal with the problems in a real and serious way. we believe that this debate must be broad, as is also reflected in your report which is being debated today. it is not just a question of the constitutional treaty and a legal debate. it is a matter of a wide-ranging debate: what kind of europe do we want? where are we going? where are the borders of europe? how can we respond to the fears and concerns of european citizens? we want to continue this debate as a council and to intensify it. we have planned a number of events where we want to engage with european citizens on a broad basis. we have just yesterday discussed with the commission and parliament the methods and strategies for bringing this europe and what it stands for closer to the citizens, and the means, the discussion forums and the intensity with which we can best meet the expectations that are placed on europe. it will be a starting point for a debate in which we also want to deal with the question of europe's identity. on the occasion of the 250th anniversary of mozart's birth, we in salzburg want to address the question 'what is europe, what is european identity?' there will be a whole series of other events until the end of the austrian presidency, because the debate on the future of europe has many facets. only by illuminating them all will you be able to fully appreciate the dimensions at issue here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. the most important task of the presidency is to get all the member states on board, because only together will we be able to make progress. as the chancellor has already said, we want to be able to present a roadmap at the end of our presidency and agree on the best way to work together to achieve the common objectives. i hope that in the coming months we will succeed in a joint effort to generate more positive thinking in europe. and yes, mr voggenhuber, we must discuss europe as a res publica, as something which really benefits all citizens. (applause from the centre)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, honourable members, in this first plenary part-session of the year i should like to wish all of you an excellent 2006. from the constitutional point of view, i believe it can only be better than last year. i hope, as the person responsible both for constitutional issues and for interinstitutional affairs, that we can continue our fruitful, effective and close cooperation. i wish to thank the rapporteurs for this report on the period of reflection and the motion for a resolution. i have already discussed it on several occasions with the two members of the european parliament who were members of the european convention. i would like to underline the considerable progress made since the initial considerations and congratulate the co-rapporteurs for the job they have done and also for their ability to take on board the many views expressed during the intense discussions in committee. i will limit my remarks to four points. the first is that we all wish to achieve a constitutional settlement, to make europe more transparent, more democratic and more effective. the question is how to achieve that settlement after the french and dutch ‘no’ votes. i was happy to see that all options regarding the constitution remain open in your resolution. during the reflection period it is essential to listen to citizens, social partners, political parties, and national and regional parliaments without prejudging the result of the wider dialogue and debate. if we do not, this exercise will lose all its value. i also took note of your favourite option. maintaining the constitution, however, will not be possible without french and dutch support with, if necessary, additional clarifications and measures. recent eurobarometer surveys have shown that european citizens’ support for the concept of a constitution for the eu has increased by two percentage points over the past five months to 63%. therefore, as has been said many times in the committee on constitutional affairs, it is important to change the context rather than the text. that is why the dialogue has to focus on the european project in connection with constitutional reform, and on the ultimate objective linked to the instruments to deliver it. it is only after the listening exercise based on the results of national debates is complete, that we will be able to draw conclusions on the best constitutional settlement for europe. that is also why the commission wants to focus on policy priorities addressing citizens’ concerns on growth, jobs, employment and security. secondly, i fully share your resistance to proposals for core groups of certain member states. what we want is a europe for everyone, not just for some. the union is in the process of consolidating the most recent accession process. we still have to work hard to ensure the smooth integration of the new member states. my view is that any enhanced cooperation must, in all circumstances, be undertaken within the existing treaties and remain open to all member states. you can rest assured that the commission and myself will not support any proposal for enhanced cooperation outside the european union institutional framework. (applause) thirdly, it seems reasonable to me to draft final conclusions on the reflection period in 2007, under the german or portuguese presidency. the june 2006 european council is clearly a major milestone in this process, but it should not be the end of it. it will, of course, be up to the european council to decide on any potential extension of the reflection period beyond the june 2006 extension already suggested by the austrian presidency. in any case, as announced in plan d, the commission will prepare a communication for the june european council setting out its thinking on the initial feedback received during the period of reflection, and this will be based on the national visits currently being undertaken by the president, myself and fellow commissioners, a special eurobarometer report, discussion forums and the 9 may conferences. this synthesis report should explain the background and approach taken by the commission over the last year, outline the initial results of the listening exercise and provide a series of conclusions for the austrian presidency on the next steps to be taken. this will complement the factual report that will be prepared by the austrian presidency on the basis of contributions from the member states. fourthly, i support your rejection of piecemeal implementation of the constitution. the reason for that is simple - it has to do with respect. respect for those who said ‘no’ and for those who have already ratified, and respect for the institutional balance. cherry-picking could give the impression that the union is trying to circumvent the results of national referenda and is liable to impair the overall institutional balance. we should respect the difference between our institutions and those in the member states and, most of all, when we embark on various praiseworthy initiatives and projects we should always respect each country’s democratic traditions. all of us play important, but different, roles. in conclusion, i would stress that we cannot discuss these issues without entering into political debate and discussing political priorities. european citizens will see that there are political differences in europe. this is another forum for discussing political priorities, but without it and without any discussion on constitutional matters nothing will work. we have to combine this process with creating legitimacy for our institutions by delivering the political results that european citizens want, so we have to consider their daily concerns as well as the constitutional issues. (applause)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the draft constitutional treaty produced a balance in the convention and the intergovernmental conference, which was essentially supported by the national parliaments, which formed the strongest group in the constitutional convention. fourteen countries have ratified it, two by referendum and two by a vote against. this failure, which is also linked to national issues, but also to the mood in europe as a whole, is a failure of national politics, but also of european politics, because we have not succeeded in establishing europe. we must take the concerns of the citizens seriously; we must take them seriously in france and in the netherlands too and we cannot just ignore them, but we should make it clear why we need this europe. the reflection phase must be used for this. this is not a period of debate on the details of the constitution, but one in which europe must be returned to the people in its foundations. we must also see and make it clear that the constitutional treaty contains precisely those things which the citizens criticise as being lacking, such as greater capacity to act in the field of foreign and security policy, which is the focus of my opinion. all the polls show that this is exactly what the citizens want: the representation of europe abroad. and for that, the constitution provides regulations that only it provides and that we cannot create on the side under the current conditions. it creates a new way of subsidiarity, with the involvement of the national parliaments, to prevent centralism and to link this idea of subsidiarity with solidarity. the civil rights and the charter of fundamental rights play a major role. the citizens are the decisive actors of this constitution and they are also protected. it is also necessary to see that in future, for example, the president of the commission, as the head of the european executive, emerges directly as a result of the elections to the european parliament and that citizens play a role in this. we should therefore also focus on the fact that parts i and ii are the actual constitutional treaty, while part iii is the treaty of nice. we have not been able to clear up this misunderstanding. i am therefore grateful that the austrian presidency will be presenting a road map and that germany will be taking new initiatives during its presidency. we should now concentrate on the dialogue, evaluate the reflection phase and present the proposals in 2007. this means that we should not take action now, as duff and voggenhuber suggest in their motion. this is premature and does not meet the wishes of the citizens.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr duff and mr voggenhuber on their balanced report. i am very pleased to be able to briefly present the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development on this report. the european parliament has had to fight for a long time for the right to vote in agriculture. the draft constitution has welcomed the adoption of the codecision rules in the fields of environmental protection, food safety and consumer protection, which have been established since the amsterdam treaties. in the field of agricultural policy, the council of agriculture ministers can still override the opinion of the european parliament, since the co-decision procedure under the present treaty does not apply to the common agricultural policy. in this context, the draft constitution did indeed offer the prospect of gaining democratic legitimacy in that all fundamental decisions on agricultural policy should be subject to co-determination. the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development has already adopted the proposal for a directive on the common organization of the market in fishery products. the objectives of the common agricultural policy referred to in article iii-227 are incompatible with the objectives of the european union as set out in article i-3 and are no longer negotiable. they urgently need to be updated to take account of the multifunctionality of our modern agriculture. agriculture in the eu today provides jobs for 10 million people. it is the only guarantee of sustainable rural development and is inextricably linked to it. the present draft constitution is not sufficient to achieve a socially acceptable cap. on the contrary, a future treaty should extend the codecision procedure as a matter of priority to the common agricultural policy, in particular by filling the remaining gaps in the agricultural field in articles iii-230 (2) and iii-231 (2) of this text. given the importance of the cap and its prominent position in the eu budget, european citizens deserve the highest level of transparency and, above all, participation in this sensitive area. i believe that this can only mean that the european parliament has full co-determination in all matters of agricultural policy, consumer protection and food safety.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one sentence in the report cannot be underlined enough: 'the treaty of nice does not provide a viable basis for the continuation of the european integration process'. i 'll add: this treaty marks the beginning of the end of an enlarged union of citizens. what's nice? the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2000 is a very important one, and it is a very important one. the list of all that europe has to lose without a constitution is very long. there can be no march back to the past! is nice really going to be poured into concrete? i do not want the european union to become a free trade area with limited social responsibility. a nuclear europe which creates new divisions in europe is unacceptable. that's why the constitutional process must continue. europe needs a new treaty. only one thing is absolutely clear: a simple 'continue like this' will not do it. the concerns and problems of the people must finally be taken seriously. this is the clear message of the constitutional referendum in france and the netherlands. what we need is a change of policy in the european union towards a social europe. only then will we have the active support of the citizens for the enlarged union and for a peaceful united europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs, i thank the rapporteurs for dealing with a very important subject at a rather difficult time. the duff-voggenhuber report is already part of margot wallström's plan b, because it has triggered lively debates. the outcome of our discussions is very encouraging. the overwhelming majority of this house is committed to the european constitution. the reasons for the new european treaty have not disappeared. on the contrary, they are becoming more urgent by the day. more agency, more transparency, more democracy. all the reforms and progress that the constitution brings are urgently needed. they have not been lost in the debate in the netherlands or in france. i am very pleased that the austrian presidency is reviving this debate. we've had a sort of paralysis the last few months. we need a comprehensive debate in all 25 countries in 2006, and i hope, mr president of the council and mrs vice-president, that all 25 countries will also make their contributions. i have seen the interim report of the december summit. that was very poor. in most countries the debate has not even begun. it would therefore be completely wrong to present the results of a debate in january 2006 before it has even begun. we must now spend a year discussing the major questions of european policy in all countries, at all levels, with all the actors. then, in 2007, we can draw conclusions about the procedure we will follow to complete this project successfully. there are several options. my chancellor said: 'why not extend the constitution by adding a protocol on social europe or on a europe of identities?' that is a path we should discuss. this period of reflection will make us stronger and it will strengthen european democracy. we have every chance of coming out of this crisis better than we went into it. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. - i'm not sure. in secret, president putin signed the law on ngos. the first three aid organisations in ingushetia have already been banned, including one which provided humanitarian aid to refugees. the logic of authoritarian regimes towards civil society is part of a principle that independent and honest information, such as the tragic war in chechnya, is not desirable. ngos like memorial provide us with information on the abuses and violations of human rights in chechnya, where free elections are impossible. the russian president responded to the visit of chancellor merkel, who had already addressed this vulnerable point in chechnya - as she had previously addressed guantanamo in washington - by saying that democracy and human rights are also lacking in the west, in the eu. i can only say that the eu does not have such a massive restriction on freedom of expression, such a terrible war as in chechnya, a judiciary that disregards the rule of law as in the case of yukos, and such inhuman conditions of detention as those of lebedev and khodorkovsky. human rights are universal and indivisible and must not be disregarded.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we take very seriously the concerns and concerns expressed in this debate regarding the situation in chechnya and the human rights situation in russia. the president of the european council, chancellor schüssel, said this morning something which i would like to repeat here: human rights and fundamental freedoms are indivisible for us. these are european values, and i stress that this is of course also true of russia. the european union - and i would like to draw particular attention to the council's activities - is raising these human rights violations in chechnya against russia again and again and at all levels. whether this is done in a diplomatic language to your liking or not, it is done in the language we use to talk to our russian partners. it is also particularly important to maintain dialogue, because only in dialogue can we express the concerns we have about human rights violations. the human rights consultations that have been set up and that we hold regularly are therefore also of particular importance. they will be held again in march. the council is preparing for these consultations very carefully. we also share the concerns expressed here about the law on non-governmental organizations. we regret that this bill was signed. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am of course in agreement with the honourable member who said that we must strengthen those forces in russia which are committed to democracy and human rights. i can assure you that will happen.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like first to come back to the election. it was the council of europe which sent an eight-member fact-finding mission; we did not send an election observation mission. the elections were not free or fair, there were deficiencies, but at the same time progress was made, because for the first time they took place without violence in such a difficult environment. a local service, financed by the commission, said that there were some irregularities, but, generally, voter participation was higher than ever before: there was a 55% turnout. we see that there is some progress, but we know that the situation on the whole certainly is not satisfactory. having said that, let me also say what the reasons are for it. there is a political conflict that needs a political solution, but there is also much poverty and therefore the root causes of poverty also have to be addressed. that is what we in the commission are trying to do currently with our tacis programme in three areas: health, education – especially job-creation – and income-generation. we know that the main reason for many people breaking out is because they do not have jobs. thirdly, as i mentioned very clearly, as regards the ngos we will now be taking very careful note of the way the provisions are being implemented, since it was only yesterday or today that president putin signed this law. we now have to look at it. i agree with the presidency that it has to be in regular political dialogue with russia. you can be sure that we always mention things. as i said before, i have been speaking with foreign minister lavrov on this issue and at least a few amendments have been taken into consideration, but on the whole i agree with those who say that, as regards russia, we need a coherent policy that encompasses energy security. we know that russia is an important supplier for us, it is a strategic partner for us, but it is also a partner with whom we sometimes have dialogue where critical remarks are made.
the next item is question time (b6-0676/2005). we're dealing with the council requests. before we begin question time, i would first like to make a statement to you and secondly to point out that after this statement mr winkler, the secretary of state, will be addressing you. in accordance with the council, we are introducing a new schedule for question time from today. the explanation of this scheme was sent to all members in a communication to members of parliament of 9 december 2005. the question time will then be divided into two parts. during the first part, four priority questions are dealt with by the minister responsible for general affairs, and the president is responsible for selecting them. the second part of the debate will deal with nine questions, namely questions 5 to 14, all of which fall within the specific competence of the foreign minister.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased to have the opportunity to meet with you today for the first time for a question and answer session. i would like to take this opportunity to mention something which you have already mentioned. we in the council presidency are aware that question time is an important democratic instrument because it also gives members of parliament the opportunity to get answers from the council to questions which are important for their political work. we have therefore been thinking, together with the secretariat of the european parliament, about how to make the best and most effective use of the question time instrument. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this new type of question time is designed to deal first with those topics topical issues of general interest and then to deal with a specific subject area for the rest of question time, i.e. to raise questions to be answered by the president of the council himself. i believe that this will help to give a more targeted approach to the questions which interest you. we want to use this new procedure to provide a better service to the european parliament and also to contribute to a better and more substantive interinstitutional dialogue, to which the austrian presidency of the council is particularly committed. we are doing this even though austria is a country with a relatively small government and therefore relatively few members of the government who are available for this new style of dialogue. but we want to make this effort in the common interest. it was not easy to convince the other members of the council of this innovation, but we succeeded. i hope, madam president, that as many members of parliament as possible will accept this offer and that their presence will perhaps help to give the question time a more lively character in the future.
we're coming to the question period. question no 1 by mr liam aylward (h-1119/05) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: climate changethe european council is asked to make a statement on the success or failure of the united nations conference on climate change held in montreal, canada, during the week beginning 5 december 2005.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, as the honourable member is aware, the european council recently welcomed the positive results of the united nations conference on climate change, held in montreal from 28 november to 10 december 2005. the montreal plan of action now calls for future climate talks to be conducted on two fronts. first, the parties to the kyoto protocol will enter into negotiations on binding emission targets for developed countries during a second commitment period. second, all parties to the unfccc, including the united states and major developing countries, have agreed to engage in a global discussion on long-term coordinated action on climate change. all in all, the kyoto protocol is now fully operational and we believe that the way forward within the united nations framework has been paved.
my dear colleague! i have now been very generous in welcoming the presidency of the council. but i would like to remind all colleagues once again that they have only 30 seconds to respond to demand. if we all go overboard, we can only deal with a very few issues. so please be so kind as to adhere to the demand time.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, it is clear - and the montreal negotiations have shown this - that the major greenhouse gas producers are now increasingly involved in the dialogue on a future climate regime, and it is important that there is no single entry. the future regime may well involve structural changes, which should make the efforts made so far significantly easier for europe to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions. there are also quite remarkable developments outside the international climate process, and different regions have taken different initiatives. the gleneagles action plan, if i may mention it at this point, sets out the priorities of the eu's main trading partners for technology transfer and tackling the effects of climate change, and it provides for dialogue and technological cooperation with india, china and russia. it is in the european union's interest to ensure with all countries inside and outside the international climate dialogue that our common targets for reducing emissions are not undermined by the actions of groups or states.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the eu emissions trading system is one of the cornerstones in the fight against climate change. it is the world's first international trading system for co2 emissions, and it tracks some 12 000 installations, or just under half of all european co2 emissions. it helps eu member states to meet their emissions targets. no other system allows such cost-effective reductions in emissions. the council is well aware of the difficulties in implementing the eu emissions trading system during the pilot phase you have mentioned. this first period has brought valuable experience which should be incorporated into the future development of the system. on the basis of these initial findings, the directive already provides for a full review in 2006. this review will allow all possible areas for improvement to be examined and incorporated for the period after 2012.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the european union has always been committed to global cooperation on climate protection. the european union and its representatives have also made this clear in all international forums and in the council conclusions. the european implementation of the kyoto protocol gives credibility to the eu's efforts and shows that climate action is feasible and compatible with economic growth. we do not consider that economic and climate concerns are opposites. for example, the eu's path to an emissions trading system is the most cost-effective way to achieve emissions reductions. furthermore, international studies have repeatedly shown that inaction would have far more severe consequential costs than funding climate action now and in the future. the earlier measures to protect the climate are taken, the lower the costs to the economy in the long run. it therefore makes economic sense for the european union to take climate action, which also creates new jobs, for reasons of energy efficiency.
question no 2 has been withdrawn by the author. question no 3 by ursula stenzel (h-1165/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: coordination between the institutions (eu-council of europe-osce) and respect for human rights in the fight against terrorismhuman rights issues are also playing an increasingly important role within the eu framework effective coordination with other organisations in this field, in particular the council of europe, is therefore necessary to avoid duplication. the european parliament has repeatedly called for respect for human rights to be a key element in the fight against terrorism. how does austria intend to strengthen cooperation between the eu and the council of europe, as well as the osce, during its presidency, and what is its position on the question of respect for human rights in the fight against terrorism?
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, i would like to confirm first of all - and this is also the view of the council - that, in parallel with the measures we are taking to combat terrorism and illegal immigration, it is important that we develop programmes - the european union has been doing this for a long time - which improve conditions in the countries of origin. we are committed to this and this is also part of the agreement reached by the governments on the financial perspective. we believe that the resources are sufficient. it will now be for the commission to put forward concrete proposals on how the individual programmes will be financed from these global amounts which have been agreed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president-in-office of the council. i thank the honourable member for his contribution and for his suggestions. we will take them to the council and consult with other council members to see whether we can or should take them to the next conference. nonetheless, i thank you for these very interesting suggestions.
as they concern the same subject, the following questions will be dealt with together: question no 6 by mr bernd posselt (h-1126/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: status of kosovowhat steps does the council intend to take to contribute to a final settlement of the status of kosovo later this year? question no 7 by mr papadimoulis (h-1152/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: settlement of the status of kosovotalks on the future status of the region have begun with talks between the un special envoy, martti ahtisaari, and the president of kosovo, ibrahim rugova. does the council still share the view that the fulfilment of the eight criteria set out by the un must precede a final settlement of the kosovo question? will the council raise with the kosovo authorities the question of the existence of guantanamo-like prisons at the american base camp bondsteel? question no 8 by othmar karas (h-1177/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: western balkans/kosovothe year 2006 is crucial for the development of the western balkans. the challenges ahead include resolving the future status of kosovo. regardless of the outcome of the status negotiations, kosovo must be placed in a european context. what form should the european perspective take? what are austria's plans for the european neighbourhood policy and in particular in relation to ukraine?
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, first of all, the questions by mr posselt, mr papadimoulis and mr karas on kosovo. according to the thessaloniki declaration, adopted by the eu and the western balkan states at their summit in june 2003, the future of the western balkan region, including kosovo, lies in the european union. the council's position on kosovo is based on a set of principles adopted by the european council in its declaration on kosovo at its meeting of 16 and 17 june 2005. any solution to the status of kosovo must be fully compatible with european values and standards, be consistent with international legal instruments and obligations and the charter of the united nations, and contribute to the realisation of the european perspective for kosovo and the region. the status must in any event ensure that the situation in kosovo does not return to that which existed before march 1999. the basis for determining status must be a multiethnic society and full respect for human rights, including the right of return for all. this status, and this is particularly important, must also provide for effective constitutional guarantees for the protection of minorities, including mechanisms to ensure minority participation in central and local government. it must also include specific safeguards for cultural heritage and religious sites and promote effective mechanisms to combat organised crime and terrorism. the status must lead to greater security and stability in the region. the european union is not prepared to accept any unilateral or forcibly imposed solution or any change in the present territory of kosovo, and there can be no partition of kosovo or merger with another country or part of another country. the territorial integrity of the neighbouring countries must be fully respected. the council also considers that the continued implementation of the standards is of crucial importance, both now and in the future, especially as regards the protection of minorities. in this context, the council has repeatedly stressed its appreciation and support for the work of the united nations special representative for kosovo, mr søren jessen-petersen. the council is determined to cooperate fully in the determination of the status of kosovo and to be involved in the relevant negotiation process under the auspices of the united nations. to this end, in november 2005, the high representative solana appointed mr stefan lehne as the european union's representative to work closely with the united nations high commissioner for status, president athisaari. the council approved this appointment. the european union delegate shall provide the un delegate with input for the negotiations, while helping the eu to prepare for its future role in kosovo in the post-resolution 1244 period. it also works closely with the member states and the commission. the european commission will also be represented in vienna, where the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights has been set up. the european union will be particularly interested in areas such as the protection of human rights, minority issues, cultural and religious sites, the rule of law and economic development. the un envoy has indicated a willingness to work closely with the eu on these and other issues. at the same time, the eu has entered into informal consultations with unmik, together with other international organisations and partners, in the context of the restructuring of the united nations interim administration mission in kosovo (unmik). the aim is to explore options for a future international presence in kosovo without prejudging the outcome of the status talks. against this background, high representative solana and commissioner olli rehn also presented their second report to the council in december on how the eu could prepare for the challenges ahead. the new international formation for the post-resolution period would be inclusive and have a strong eu component. the eu is to play a central role in the rule of law, including a police mission, capacity building and the economy. the competent authority for all matters concerning the international military presence in kosovo, under the direction of the united nations, is kfor.
madam president, mr secretary of state! thank you for your excellent answer, which was to be expected. it is a hundred years since the moravian compensation system was introduced in january, which was exemplary, but the problem was that it applied only in moravia. we are making the same mistake now: we are looking for specific regulations and setting different standards. in kosovo, they are working out carefully-designed minority schemes, but there is nothing like this in the preševo valley in vojvodina. i would just like to ask you to develop uniform or comparable standards objectively for the region, only then will a peace settlement be possible.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, i can confirm that the council continues to believe, and will continue to believe, that the fulfilment of the eight criteria set out by the united nations must precede a final settlement of the kosovo question. the resolution is binding, it is valid and it is the axis on which the solution will move. the status talks have begun and we will be following them closely. the future lies in the european union, according to the thessaloniki declaration to which i have already referred, and i would like to emphasize this again because you have mentioned the principles and values of the european union, and that means, of course, that the values of the european union must be accepted. as for the question of the camp you have raised, that is a question that cannot be answered by kosovo.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, to begin with the second part: yes, the european union must and will provide sufficient funds. the gas budget has been increased considerably for the current year. however, since the scope of the future tasks is not yet clear - and it is not yet possible to foresee what kind of presence the european union will have in kosovo - it is not yet possible to say precisely what the resources will be. a rapid increase in the gas budget during the financial year would also be possible in accordance with article 39 of the interinstitutional agreement, subject to the consent of the european parliament. if the task of the european union requires it, it should be done. as for the european neighbourhood policy, it has already made a valuable contribution to a committed neighbourhood policy of the union in its first year, and we also support the european commission in its proposals. the gradual, systematic and yet individual introduction of eu standards and rules should and will continue to be pursued. the stated aim of the neighbourhood policy is and remains to offer and facilitate a significant degree of integration. this is happening, as you have mentioned, with the help of european neighbourhood policy action plans, and those with ukraine and moldova have proven to be successful in our view and in the european commission's view. a first review of the action plans with ukraine and also with moldova will be carried out for the first year 2006, i.e. during the austrian presidency . secondly, from next year onwards, the enpi will be a new financial instrument with even more targeted support options. it is also important to us that action plans are negotiated and concluded with all the countries of the european neighbourhood policy as soon as possible. this concerns in particular - and this is also a task which will fall to the austrian presidency - the three caucasian republics of armenia, azerbaijan and georgia. it was only in december that political consultations were held with these three countries. the commission has made it clear that it is with these three countries that it is seeking to move forward swiftly with the negotiations on action plans. the austrian presidency of the council is very much in favour of this. as far as ukraine is concerned, we strongly support its accession to the european union under the enp. we expect that ukraine will soon be formally granted market economy status, once it has fulfilled the technical criteria. we believe that the early accession of ukraine to the wto is particularly important, because this would pave the way for the creation of a free trade area with the european union. a feasibility study is currently being finalised by the european commission. we believe that the implementation of this project will be another important step in relations with ukraine. we will continue to work actively in this direction.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion is enshrined in international human rights instruments. i would refer in particular to the globally applicable article 18 of the international covenant on civil and political rights, which establishes freedom of thought, conscience and religion as an individual right. this right, it says, includes the freedom to have or to adopt a religion and belief of one's own choice and the freedom to manifest one's religion, alone or in community with others, publicly or privately, by worship, observance of religious customs, practice and teaching. the european union attaches great importance to this human right and therefore holds regular talks on this subject with third countries, most recently in new york, where the eu member states successfully introduced a resolution on the elimination of all forms of intolerance and discrimination based on religion or belief to the third committee of the united nations general assembly. the council has repeatedly condemned all forms of intolerance on the grounds of religion and is also closely following developments in the field of human rights. the council takes the opportunity offered by the dialogue with third countries to express clearly its concern about intolerance towards religious and other minorities.
president-in-office of the council. as i have said, the european union raises the question regularly in all dialogues as well as in international fora, which is very important. we have raised it at the united nations. we do not name and shame, but we are very clear when we speak to the countries concerned if we believe, or have reason to believe, that there is persecution or restriction of the right to religious freedom. to give you an example: we very much emphasise the question of religious freedom in our human rights discussions with china, because we believe this to be an issue that must be raised in the context of our dialogue with china. the same is true in other areas. the adoption of a resolution, which was adopted by a large majority of members of the united nations, is a step in the right direction. this will give us even more leverage in the future to raise this question in our relations with those countries. the fact that we do business with those countries does not prevent us from speaking out clearly when it comes to violations of human rights.
i have three requests for you. they're allowed under our new system. we are in the second part of question time to the council, so that mr rübig has the opportunity to ask questions first.
president-in-office of the council. there are cases where we link certain things that the european union does for those countries with respect for human rights. in some countries where there are violations of human rights certain sanctions are in force, for example in myanmar/burma. in other cases we also have to bear in mind that we need to support the people who live there. we must be very careful about applying sanctions, because very often it is the people and not the government who are hurt. we believe that each case should be considered individually. we believe in a frank, open and direct dialogue. if such a dialogue does not lead to the desired results, then we have to discuss in the council other methods we might wish to pursue.
thank you for having the courage to speak to china. i would just like to mention the situation of the underground church and the arrest of bishops and other religious figures, and secondly, to repeat what mr rübig said: are there any new developments in turkey in the area of religious law?
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, mr posselt, i think that it does not take any courage to speak to china. there is a dialogue with china - i myself participated in it - which is very open and very direct. the question you have raised will of course be followed up in relation to china. the same applies to turkey. we have expressed our concern in our talks with turkey and will of course continue to insist that the appropriate legislative and administrative measures taken by turkey are in line with our ideas in this area, which are in line with international standards.
question no 10 is therefore inadmissible since the author is not present. question no 11 by mrs inger segelström (h-1159/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: colombia sweden has been actively involved in the democratization process in colombia. however, we are all witnesses to the fact that the problem of democracy persists and that human rights continue to be violated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. public opinion is increasingly opposed to the expansion of large-scale palm oil plantations. the aim is to recognise the land rights of the indigenous population. many eu countries use palm kernel oil as animal feed and many of us use cosmetic products containing palm oil. what can the council do to ensure that the eu member states continue to support the democratization process in colombia and continue to work towards an end to human rights violations in colombia?
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. however, any violation of human rights is a cause for concern. the continuing internal armed conflict in colombia is also the cause of most human rights violations, which are committed mainly by illegal armed groups. the eu therefore continuously appeals to the parties to the conflict to respect human rights and international humanitarian law, and it also maintains regular contacts, in particular with the colombian authorities and the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights in bogota. i can add that it was just before christmas that the colombian vice-president was in austria - i spoke to him and spoke to him very intensely, particularly on the question of human rights. in its conclusions of 3 october 2005, the council reaffirmed its full support for the government of colombia, in particular in its efforts to enforce the rule of law throughout the country and to combat terrorism and the production and trafficking of illicit drugs. the council also reaffirmed its long-standing policy of supporting the colombian government in its efforts to resolve the internal armed conflict by negotiation, including direct talks with the illegal armed groups willing to negotiate a peace agreement. we therefore welcome the recent contacts between the illegal armed groups and the colombian authorities and we also call on all parties to do their utmost to bring about a peaceful solution and thus to put an end to the internal armed conflict, which has now lasted well over a generation and is the main cause of human rights violations.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, madam president, you are asking a question that cannot be answered. is the european union doing enough in the face of the suffering in so many countries? this is a question that cannot really be answered in the abstract. we're doing the best we can. i would like to point out, however, that in the context of the council conclusions of last october, i have already mentioned concrete initiatives, and i would add that most of these initiatives fall within the commission's remit. however, i would point out, for example, that in december 2005 the commission decided to make available an amount of one and a half million euro under the rapid reaction mechanism. the question remains whether this is enough or whether we cannot do more.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, whether such a conference will take place in the first half of 2006 i cannot say from today's perspective. the holding of this conference depends on the agreement of the troika of the g24 group, chaired by mexico, with the colombian government. however, such a conference would take place in close proximity to the eu-latin america summit in mid-may 2006 and the presidential elections in colombia at the end of may. the european union-latin america summit is being held between the two elections, so that the presence of a colombian president at this conference in vienna is doubtful.
question no 12 is therefore inadmissible since the applicant is not present. question no 13 by mr athanasios pafilis (h-1175/05) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: attempted condemnation of communism despite international protests and the strong rejection of the draft, a clearly anti-communist text was again put to the vote in the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. the title was merely changed from "condemnation of communist ideology" to "necessity of international condemnation of crimes of communist regimes". what is the council's position on these increasing attempts to rewrite history and justify crimes committed in the name of fascism and imperialism? will it work to ensure freedom for all political parties and to put an end to the attempts to discriminate against the communist movement and to ban communist parties?
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, i can only repeat what i have already said: the european union cannot take a position on the activities and deliberations and decision-making of an organ of another international organisation.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe can discuss all subjects. the assembly decides for itself which subjects it will deal with. but it is also possible, of course, to put forward such proposals in a discussion with national members of parliament sitting in the parliamentary assembly. the european union as union or the council as council cannot certainly submit this proposal to the institution of another institution.
questions which have not been dealt with for reasons of time will be answered in writing (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 6.55 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur for this very good report on the european neighbourhood policy, which will give me the opportunity to come back to the priorities for the next several months on this important issue. as we have reiterated on several occasions since its inception in 2003, the neighbourhood policy is an ambitious policy. it remains the number one issue – at least in my own portfolio – in eu external relations, because it is so important to promote prosperity, stability and security. the stakes for our neighbouring countries are very high. it is clearly in the interests of the european union to have well-governed and democratic partners in our neighbourhood which can finally join in the positive dynamics of sustainable social and economic development. as you mentioned, it is also in our interests that conflicts in our vicinity are peacefully resolved and that issues like migration, border control, organised crime and terrorism are tackled in a more effective way through closer cooperation. the year 2005 has been the first year of delivery for the enp, with the beginning of the implementation of the first seven enp action plans. what do we want to do in the future? the commission has been active on a broad front, including, for example, progress on market economy status; visa facilitation and energy issues for ukraine; the border assistance mission on the moldovan/ukrainian border; creating new fora in which to discuss issues such as democracy, human rights and governance, for instance with our mediterranean partners – i need only recall the euromed conference in barcelona in november; the preparations to pursue our educational cooperation and in particular to extend twinning and technical assistance and information exchange programmes to taiex programmes to our partners; and our proposal for a new european neighbourhood and partnership instrument – the enpi – that will not be decoupled from the neighbourhood policy. it must be said that for 2006 and 2007 it will be crucial for the further development of enp to deliver, and there is a considerable onus on our partners regarding implementation, because we will continue to deliver on our own commitments, but how the partner countries react is very important. we will continue the implementation of the enp action plans in close cooperation with our partners. at the end of 2006 we will issue a full progress report covering the implementation. we will also open certain programmes and agencies to enp partners. for instance, we will start negotiations on agricultural and fishery products with our mediterranean partners. we will work on visa facilitation issues with ukraine and moldova. for ukraine the mandate is already there. we will also adopt the enpi as soon as possible and hopefully provide it with adequate resources so that it can be fully operational from january 2007. we are convinced that the enpi will give us a better, more flexible and more focused instrument with which we can support reforms and cross-border cooperation. both we and our partners are facing a major challenge to turn the commitments contained in the action plans into real concrete action. implementation is always the most important test and will depend very much on the partner countries’ political will and on our capacity, but also their capacity, to implement the commitments taken in the action plans. let me assure you that we will do everything in our power to do so. let me also briefly say that the gas dispute of 1 january has shown how important the energy question has become. let me also say that we must urgently draw the consequences of this gas dispute and the energy question for our external policy. i intend to give the highest priority to developing an effective foreign energy policy which will aim at the most effective guarantee possible of the security of the eu energy supply. we are not starting from scratch, as many instruments already exist, but they need further exploitation and an energy dialogue with russia that has already covered much ground and provided us with a good basis to address bilateral aspects is there, but we have to make it really profound and we have to go on. we recently signed a memorandum of understanding with ukraine on energy and, in addition, we will provide expertise to ukraine and moldova. therefore, there is a multidimensional aspect and we shall address that through institutions such as g8, the international energy agency, the osce and others. we have the energy charter treaty, which russia has not yet joined, but we also have the south-east europe energy community treaty as instruments on which we will build. that means the neighbourhood policy will certainly also have to tackle these questions in the right format. but, again, as i said today in another context, we will also need coherence from the member states.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank both the rapporteur for his work and his predecessor, armin laschet, who has already done some preliminary work; i would also like to thank the commissioner for her contribution to the fact that we are entering a very important area with the neighbourhood policy. this is not just help for these countries, but a policy of stability and peace in our own interests. i believe that the action programmes must be designed to ensure that the financial instrument is adequately equipped, but also that important areas are included, with the involvement of the european parliament, in accordance with the distribution of roles which we must respect. the involvement of our neighbours in many policy areas binds them to us in the framework of economic policy, in helping their internal political development, in respecting human rights and much more. the example of energy policy has already been mentioned, for example, in the case of aid to ukraine. it is in our interest that they should be able to keep their own gas pipelines, that they should not fall into the hands of others. i would like to stress that this is of equal importance for eastern europe and the mediterranean region. however, in individual cases, different methods and fields may be used to achieve this goal of neighbourhood policy. for the eastern european countries, there is a european perspective which is important to legitimize the reform efforts at home and to support the regimes so that they can do so. but this does not automatically mean that there is a prospect of accession, as french prime minister de villepin said today in his speech in berlin. we may have to find other ways of doing things which do not necessarily lead to accession. we should therefore also consider whether we are not also developing this policy towards a 'european economic area plus'. i take this only as a working title and as a multilateral offer which leaves the doors open in principle for membership in cases where the countries can do so and this is in line with the european union's receptivity and will. we are also currently having a debate in parliament about whether this might not be an offer. however, this is not the purpose of this report as an intermediate step for some of the balkan states with which membership is not yet being negotiated, without calling into question the accession commitments of thessaloniki. we have a great task here and i would like to assure you, commissioner, on behalf of my group, that we will support the idea of moving forward in close cooperation.
the commission has already done so. we too welcome this report by mr tannock. i would also like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to mr armin laschet for the work he has done so far. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu must take greater care than it has done so far to ensure that the democracy clauses in agreements with third countries are taken seriously and, where appropriate, must draw consequences from this, both positive and negative. the report speaks of an effective monitoring mechanism in this context. it would be a great step forward if we had the fundamental rights agency, which we will discuss in this house on another occasion, so that we have an instrument to assess effectively the situation in the partner countries. but it is also about ensuring that the bilateral approach to the european neighbourhood policy, which we have followed since 2003 and which we expressly support, can be appropriate to the diversity of the countries. but we must not forget that there is another approach, the barcelona process with its regional approach. we are well advised to consider both complementary and combine the strengths of both approaches in the sense of a european union policy from a single cast. i would like to mention specifically the area of migration policy, which unfortunately has not played a role in the barcelona process so far. we are well advised to start discussions with the countries of the southern mediterranean on this. we all remember the terrible images of ceuta and melilla which have affected us in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but it is also about the humane treatment of refugees and the need to improve the situation in countries as a whole. i am pleased that the european union is stepping up its activities in the field of training. we need to do a lot more here. i am thinking in particular of the young people in the southern mediterranean countries, who must be given a future chance to participate in their countries. only if young people have a chance there will they stay in these countries and use their know-how for the good and democratic shaping of these societies. i would like to conclude by recalling the situation in egypt. we all followed the arrest of opposition politician aiman nur. i think i can say on behalf of everyone that we are in solidarity with him and with all those who are working for democracy and human rights there, sometimes in difficult conditions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. however, i can never accept certain terms and i never will. what do the ancestors of many western ukrainians have in common with the ancestors of the commissioner, with my ancestors, with those of mrs hybášková or mr rouček, mr peterle and many others in this chamber? they were citizens of a central european state called austria-hungary. and why one should suddenly be a west european and the other an east european, why one should suddenly be - as some thoughtlessly say - a european and the other a european neighbour, no one has been able to explain to me in a reasonable way. just as economic policy must have a concept of regulatory policy, so too must neighbourhood and enlargement policies. the fact is that ukraine, belarus and the republic of moldova are clearly european countries, as are the countries of south-eastern europe, to which we attach this strange label of the western balkans. they all must eventually have a perspective of full membership of the european union, even though we now know that for some - such as ukraine, belarus or the republic of moldova - this may not be the case for a very long time. that is why the neighbourhood policy makes sense as a transit station. but here we must simply distinguish between those for whom it represents a perspective on europe and others with whom we want to have a lasting connection as neighbours, such as the southern and eastern mediterranean states. i very much appreciated what mr özdemir, a member of the green group, said today, namely that we must link the barcelona process and the mediterranean countries more closely in the context of neighbourhood policy, because in the long term mediterranean policy will have to be a neighbourhood policy in the traditional sense. that is why we must now come to terms with the terms and categories as they exist today. but we must not lose sight of the realities, because otherwise we will be surprised by the realities in an unpleasant way, as has been indicated in a very cold way this winter between russia and ukraine.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. small and mediumsized enterprises are now the priority in all discussions. we heard that today at the council presidency. that is a good thing, and i should like to make it quite clear that this is also due to commissioner verheugen, who has finally given this subject a boost. we're grateful for that, too. however, the subject is not always adequately addressed, except in many speeches. we are aware of this ourselves, because parliament is starting to deal with this subject at a time which is not appropriate for the subject. we should therefore also be taking a closer look at ourselves and dealing with this subject. a look at the figures - they have been mentioned here - shows that smes are our main target group for the lisbon agenda. with two thirds of the workforce, they are the main employers, but also innovators in many areas where smes are global leaders in niche and fragmented markets and also supply more than 50% of patents. this means that in these areas we europeans have the authority and the design competence that we so badly need in global competition. the financial resources we allocate to small and mediumsized enterprises are in stark contrast. it is clear that in the commission's original budget, which was generous, only 0.3% of all appropriations would have been originally allocated to smes. some of the colleagues have touched on the subject of cip competitive innovation programmes. as a reporter, i'd like to file a complaint. this area has been circumcised. we all agree that we must increase these funds to the maximum possible level. i would like to say, however, that the commissioner has appointed a representative for small and mediumsized enterprises and has made a very good choice in françoise le bail. i congratulate you on this and i thank the rapporteur for her excellent report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 25 million small businesses employ almost 100 million people. they account for well over half of all private sector jobs in the eu and are of great importance for regional, cultural and social development, including in rural areas. they deserve to be looked at every year, their innovation and competitive opportunities. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. i agree with him. but there is also criticism from many quarters that the charter contains too many non-binding appeals. i too want concrete measures at community level and - as commissioner verheugen said - at member state level. the ten lines of action of the charter are important guidelines for increasing the exchange of good practice, encouraging the creation of new businesses and creating a positive environment overall. it starts in the schoolroom, and from the primary level we have to put important accents. finland is again a model. the netherlands is an example of simplification of regulations, not least because of its standardised impact assessments. we agree that the considerable bureaucratic and fiscal obstacles in the member states must be further reduced. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i am thinking of the proposal to draw up a green paper on the removal of these obstacles, as well as the call for improved access to structural funds and venture capital funds. i personally think it is important that small businesses should increase their support for transnational exchanges of trainees and staff under leonardo and other programmes. this will increase mobility and at the same time create the conditions for much better cooperation between small and micro enterprises in the future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not what is the purpose of these rules of procedure and what is new in them? the point is that the liveliness and spontaneity of the proceedings should be fully guaranteed, but that anyone who is really malicious, persistent and constantly disturbing the proper course of this parliament's work can be brought to justice. this has been redefined and clarified, which has been very vague in the statutes, namely the difference between the 'normal' president of the sitting, the president of a delegation or committee, or a vice-president who chairs this great assembly, and the only president - you are here in person today. the 'normal' chairman may issue a reprimand, may expel a colleague from the room who is causing a lasting disturbance and may interrupt a meeting. but the really painful sanctions can only be imposed by the president. it is surprising that the president alone, without the plenary, can impose such an effective sanction. however, this is corrected or balanced by the reintroduction of a complaint procedure, so that a colleague who feels that he has been treated unfairly by the president can complain and a possible wrongly imposed sanction can then be corrected. what's really new is that the act of betraying a secret can now be sanctioned. the new measure is a certain increase in the possibility of sanctions. so far, it is possible to exclude a colleague from work for two to five days, but the new rule is two to ten days. i think - as mr onesta has said - that this is a balanced proposal, a proposal which allows for vitality and yet ensures that the procedure is carried out properly. our group will therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to make it quite clear that i am not here to replace mr martin, but that my group has given me two minutes, even though i am not a member of the committee responsible. i very much appreciate, mr president, that you have come here to discuss these matters, and i very much appreciate that you are a president who is trying to curb some of the abuses of the rules of procedure by some of your colleagues. i do not want to go into the question of whether it is not a way of enhancing the standing of certain colleagues by sanctioning their questionable behaviour in the rules of procedure. i do not want to discuss whether some members of the bureau simply have less sovereignty than they would have had if the rules of procedure had been amended. i am in favour of including the betrayal of secrets in this text. i am, however, somewhat disappointed that this text has not been consulted by the legal affairs committee, which is responsible for the mandate of members. the committee on constitutional affairs is rightly responsible for the rules of procedure. there, this thing is in the right hands. but sometimes the member's right also conflicts with provisions in the rules of procedure. of course, the member's right is not limited to voting. we are a parliament, not a 'vote'. the courts then rightly say that if a member is not present and cannot present his arguments, then a vote may be unlawful. if the legal affairs committee had been involved, i would have raised a point of substance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. the members have decided that. that's why there was no need for a complaint. the procedure which would have been public is now disappearing, so to speak, in the chambers of parliament. i feel that this is a step backwards. i still agree with a stomachache. i would ask that if in future it is possible to go beyond the purely organisational procedures and even theoretically touch upon the mandate, the legal affairs committee should be included in the consultation.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. the socialist group, which took on the task of drawing up mrs estrela's own-initiative report and carrying out the mid-term evaluation, has found that the gender dimension in the lisbon strategy is not being taken into account. the motto 'equal pay for equal work' has already been mentioned. we have had this on paper for years, but it has not been reflected in reality. the eu average is 15% to over 30%. this can't go on. in companies, women are largely absent from management positions. we have good models outside the european union too - let us look at norway. in norway, the government has passed a law to bring 40% of women on the boards of publicly listed companies. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the demand for independence must not be limited to paper. the social partners are invited to take an active part in this. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. today - and this has been addressed - women are more educated and there are significantly more women than men with university degrees, and yet the glass ceiling is not being broken. so there must be other reasons why women are not getting through, and there, i have to say, is a lack of political will. the commission has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. where does it end up? why are women - even in the political sphere - not making the breakthrough in the end? the report by mrs estrela is a good way of stirring things up again and changing the role of men. family and work compatibility and gender mainstreaming are not just women's issues. that's why i'm asking you to increase the pressure. i ask the commission to present the road map now and not just to describe facts again, but to take really bold steps forward. the new gender institute will be an important and bold step. this is a way of showing that europe takes equality seriously. i therefore ask that the words be followed by action. the lisbon model and the lisbon strategy can only succeed if women are fully integrated.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the lisbon strategy must not only have economic policy objectives, but also must identify key elements for strengthening social cohesion and sustainable development. we must make it clear that gender equality must also play a central role in the lisbon process. we must also make it clear that member states must finally implement the barcelona guidelines on childcare. the reconciliation of family and work must no longer be a mere lyric, a mere platitude, but must be at the forefront of the lisbon process. we must also make clear the responsibility of the member states. but we must also point out that there are many things to be examined, such as the social and pension systems in the member states, which unilaterally favour the childless and disadvantage families with children. we must have the courage to put all this to the test. we must also highlight the gender pay gap which still exists in the european union, between 15 and 33%. this must be a wake-up call for us to do more for gender equality in the european union. we must continue to make clear that, in addition to these objectives of better childcare, we must also combat the fact that women are still very much exposed to discrimination, despite having a higher level of education than men, as we have repeatedly seen, especially in the large wage gap in the european union. the flexibility of working hours to achieve a balance between family and work should also be a much greater focus. we are aware that demographic change is a huge problem in the european union and we must do everything we can to really encourage more people to come here. we must make it clear that having children is also a joy and a richness in life, and we must give incentives to families. we cannot allow ourselves to be blinded to the fact that child benefit and similar measures are basically a charity for families with children who are clearly disadvantaged in the social and pension systems.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we must turn many screws to achieve the lisbon objectives, and one thing must be clear: we can only achieve this with women. we still have an unreasonably high gender pay gap in many member states. there is still discrimination in the field of promotion. the family still has to be guided by the workplace. but jobs must be geared to the needs of families. all areas must be considered with a view to gender mainstreaming, but also with a view to family mainstreaming. new approaches must be found here. we agree, and we hate to say it, but women still need more support to develop their entrepreneurial spirit. women contribute to the economic viability and competitiveness of europe. education and lifelong learning are the buzzwords. the greatest potential of the citizens of europe is and remains their knowledge, and this must continue to be promoted on equal terms. i thank the rapporteur, mrs estrela, for her comprehensive report on the many reasons for this. mrs thomsen has touched on the subject of 'research and women', and i would like to highlight another area, namely private sector employment in the home. in principle, there is no reason at all to treat domestic work differently from work in the industrial economy. when a husband and wife are both employed and someone is hired to care for the household, it is a job, not a private pleasure. on the other hand, a competent household management of our families - both in the field of child and youth care and education and in the field of care and care for the elderly - would effectively cover large parts of the social fields of activity and at the same time create valuable jobs. a recognised, compulsory workplace also contributes to social security systems and opens the way for many women to move from undeclared work to legal work and to social security for old age and illness. i think that's part of the reason why this job is so unpopular. what costs nothing is not recognized as equal and is worth nothing, and nobody wants that. we must create awareness in this area, rather than lowering the value of work by introducing minimum wages. member states must promote prospects: financial/tax as well as ideological. because only a family-friendly society in europe can achieve the lisbon goals. the lisbon strategy gives us the opportunity to focus on these important areas. we must do this in order to stimulate the process and keep it going.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 168, in conjunction with rule 53, and in this context i would like to ask the commission whether it can accept the amendments adopted by parliament in this report, in particular amendment no 14, which calls for 50% of the restructuring funds, which total eur 6 billion, to go to the producers. this is a motion that has been voted on by the committee. the request was made by mr goepel. i also ask for the adoption of motions for resolutions nos 10 and 11, which call for the restructuring measures to include a regional economic development plan, which the commission and the member states must notify.
member of the commission. mr president, i think it is useful to answer this question by clarifying this point. the commission may accept that at least 10% of the amounts of restructuring aid be reserved for sugar beet growers and machinery contractors. this amount could be increased by the member states according to their specific situation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 168 for our group and ask for referral back to committee so that we can enforce these two points in negotiations with the commission and the council. the council decided that only 10% of this restructuring money should go to producers, including those in third world countries, and the rest should go to the sugar industry, which can finance its closures without taking any account of jobs or the interests of the region. that's why we want to start negotiations. it is a consultative procedure. the only way to negotiate with the council is to refer it back now and use the four weeks until the next meeting to push through an increase for producers. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr graefe zu baringdorf is right in that we tabled the amendment with the proviso that at least 50% of the restructuring fund should be used. the commission proposal provides for the following minimum rate of 10%, with each member state being free to increase this rate without limitation. the matter is therefore closed for our group. i would ask you to reject this amendment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we are going to vote on this now, i want it to be a roll-call vote. the motion for a resolution was not tabled before the vote because we did not know whether we would vote. the request can therefore now be made only orally. i therefore ask for a rollcall vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as chairman of the committee, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for dealing with one of the most important issues that will concern us in 2006, at a time when there is a lot going on. as a german member of parliament, i would like to make a number of corrections to the services. the german translation is sometimes misunderstood and incorrect. for example, european papers is translated as europapiere. we are not trying to make paper, but political substance. i'm going to give you a series of corrections.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my group does not agree that if our amendment no 24 is adopted, then amendment no 2 by the ppe-de group will be obsolete. we do not think that this is a contradiction, but that it is compatible in itself, that is to say that both proposals can be accepted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have voted very consciously today in favour of the reports by mr fruteau on the sugar market reform. the sugar market in the eu is a very sensitive market. the sugar beet is an important product for many of our farmers, and it can be grown where conditions for other agricultural products are too difficult. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the commission's proposals are far from being realistic. we therefore call for even smaller cuts in the price of sugar and beet, for greater encouragement of the cultivation of renewable raw materials as a substitute for beet cultivation and for higher compensation payments. the council also recognized the need for corrections and in its decision took up many of our demands. the council's decision is already a success for this house and a success for the sugar beet growers in europe, but the cuts are still going too far. in this context, i also think it is a completely wrong sign that the council, at the commission's insistence, has already formulated a declaration of intent before the parliament's vote. the amendments we have proposed today are, in my view, an even better way forward. we have a good reform. i want a better reform - i am for it, i voted for it today.
in writing. why i continue to oppose the eu constitution treaty:1. the eu constitution treaty must finally be put to the test, so that a perspective for a social and civil europe can be opened. the eu constitution is intended to give a decisive boost to the militarisation of the eu. a number of militarization projects are laid down in the constitutional treaty (iii-311). the eu constitution is intended to equip the eu for global warfare. it opens the way for worldwide military interventions (i-41.1 and iii-309). the eu treaty contains an explicit obligation to arm (i-41.3). if ratified, the tendency to spend more money on armaments would increase. 5.the eu's foreign policy is bound by the eu's constitutional treaty only to the principles and not to the un charter as a whole (i-3,4). this leaves room for interpretation for the eu to wage war even without a un mandate. the eu constitution treaty serves as a programmatic blueprint to push the militarization of the eu beyond the current treaty situation. the eu arms agency (iii-311) is being expanded and the battle groups (iii-312) are being set up. the eu constitution is intended to give neoliberalism constitutional status (iii-177). the anti-social bolkestein policy is just a first taste. the proposal by german chancellor angela merkel to attach to the eu constitution a legally non-binding declaration on the 'social dimension' of europe, only to have it voted on again in france and the netherlands, is simply scandalous.
in writing. the report by british conservative mep charles tannock, voted on today in the european parliament, reaffirms the main features of the eu's neighbourhood policy: the eu's geopolitical interests are to be enforced by human rights rhetoric. 1.the eu's neighbourhood policy aims to create a geopolitical space of influence for the european union and its member states. a 'privileged partnership' is sought with neighbouring countries (including the south caucasus). the report explicitly identifies the geostrategic orientation of the neighbourhood policy towards the eu's resource security. energy policyis set to become an important topic in the eu's neighbourhood policy, as the eu is surrounded by the world's main oil and natural gas reserves (russia and the caspian basin, the middle east and north africa). the geostrategic importance of transit countries such as georgia and armenia is also underlined. the european union must also take action to ensure that the situation in belarus is not further destabilized. if one looks at the different treatment of belarus and uzbekistan, the toleration of military bases by eu member states, such as germany's in termez, it becomes clear that this is primarily about the expansion of the eu's sphere of influence. 5.neighbouring countries will also be bound to the eu militarily. the eu's military infrastructure and military interventions should be open to them.
a writer. the commission is not cambodian culture was once known worldwide as a symbol of peace. meanwhile, hardly any country has suffered as much as cambodia. in the second world war under foreign occupation, then the vietnam war and twice in the indochina war; the european parliament has been a party to the peace process, and it is not the council that is responsible for the peace process. after the terror that the country suffered, we have started a peace process, with a lot of political effort from the united nations, the european union and, last but not least, the people of the country, which has been complicated and has required a lot of commitment and also a lot of financial resources. today we are faced with a kind of rubble, because we are seeing an unjust regime re-established there. we must not accept that! i would therefore like to refer in particular to paragraph 5 of our resolution, which clearly states that the agreement we have concluded with cambodia is based on democracy and human rights. this is not a diplomatic phrase we use to introduce pleasant business as a polite formulation, but it is the basis of business. it is the duty of the council, the commission and the parliament to make it clear to our cambodian partners that if they violate this basis of trade in a lasting way, they cannot do business with us either. we must go beyond the protests written on paper and finally put pressure on the council to enforce human rights. i would therefore urge that we invite the united nations special representative for cambodia to the european parliament as soon as possible to have a serious discussion with him on the situation in this troubled country. we are happy that now, thanks to our pressure and the pressure of the americans - it is good that we are working together here - prisoners have been released, and we fully recognize this. however, we know that these prisoners are still facing trial. we know that there are many other prisoners, and there are warrants for trial and arrest, and above all, there is the repression of minorities. we must fight this with a firm hand. human rights policy is above all sustainability!
high representative for the common foreign and security policy. mr president, allow me to join you in my first words of congratulations to the person who has embodied the european parliament and the european union as a whole in the observation mission for the palestinian elections, mrs de keyser, a good friend of all of us and a good friend of mine in particular, for the great work done in this very difficult period in which the mission of the observers has been of great importance. i do not know whether mrs de keyser is in the chamber, but in any case i would like to express my admiration and appreciation and give her further proof of my friendship and sympathy. (applause) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not deceiving you by saying that it is very difficult for me to start this sitting on 1 february 2006. if we had the capacity to turn our minds back just one month, to 1 january this year, and look at what has happened in the world in the last 30 days, we would realise that it can really be useful to make some reflections in this parliament; reflections which have to do with the european union's capacity to make policy, with the european union's capacity to make international policy and with the obligation we all have, if we set our minds clearly on what has happened in the last 30 days which i would like to review, to draw some conclusions about how we cannot continue to act and how we should start to act. let me remind you very briefly of what has happened in the last 30 days. on the night of the first of 2006, many of us spent the night awake, trying to solve a very serious problem that affected us: ukraine and russia had a problem that was difficult to solve because of the lack of an energy agreement between the two countries. if that energy agreement had remained a disagreement, it would have had enormously serious repercussions on the energy supply for many countries in the european union. first night of the year. on the third night of 2006, the iranian government made a very important decision: to start enriching uranium. and less than a week later, it began breaking the seals that had been placed by the international atomic energy agency in vienna, in accordance with the resolutions of the security council and the board of governors of that agency. a few days later, prime minister sharon was admitted to a jerusalem clinic and unfortunately he has not yet fully recovered. i would like to wish the family of prime minister sharon, from here, on your behalf, if i may, a speedy recovery. regardless of the differences we may have had in the past, regardless of the difficulties and misunderstandings we may have had, the men who have struggled, the people who have worked with us must be recognized in their difficult moments. not many days later, serious problems arose with the beginning of the elections in palestine, and once again mrs de keyser was there to try to solve them. at the end of the month, palestinian elections were held, the result of which caused a commotion. a few days later, in the context of another matter of the utmost importance to the european union, president rugova, the president of kosovo, died unexpectedly. the last days of the month also saw a key meeting of the african union, with which we are cooperating very closely in trying to solve a serious problem: the darfur problem. finally, a few days ago, also this month, we received a request from the secretary-general of the united nations to be ready to take a decision on the possibility of the european union being involved in the security and defence of the elections which are to take place in a few months' time in the congo. ladies and gentlemen, if we were to think, even briefly, about these 30 days, we would have to draw enormous lessons. and many of them would have to do with the influence of the european union in the world today, because in all these issues that i have mentioned, in all of them, the european union has had to play a fundamental role: whether in the issue of energy security, fundamental, which will remain with us throughout the whole of 2006; whether in the issue of iran, which will remain with us in the coming days and, certainly, beyond the coming days, and to which i want to refer later; whether in the elections in palestine and their consequences; whether after the death of president rugova and in view of the consequences that it will have in 2006 - let us hope that only in 2006 - on the final development of the agreements on the status of kosovo; whether in the issues related to the changes that have occurred in the african union, with which we have deep relations of friendship, cooperation and affection. i would like to begin, if the presidency will allow me, by referring very briefly to the issues i have mentioned, the most important of those which have been raised this month and which will undoubtedly form the fundamental agenda for this parliament and the european union in 2006, but not without first telling the presidency of parliament and its members once again that the european union is undoubtedly a key actor in foreign policy, that it must continue to be so, that experience has shown us that, even if we do not want to be so, we have to be so, and that in just thirty days we have had to deal with so many issues, which at times have even prevented us from thinking; this has been the activity in which we have been immersed during all the days of this month. this morning, ladies and gentlemen, the foreign affairs committee of this parliament received two distinguished persons from ukraine: the minister for foreign affairs, mr tarasyuk, and ms yulia timoshenko, a distinguished member of parliament. the committee on foreign affairs has seen - and i hope many of you have been able to comment - the difficult situation in which a friendly country, a country which is fundamental to the stability and security of europe, such as ukraine, finds itself. it is a matter of concern to the european parliament, and to the council, that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. today, a year later, we see that many of the problems that existed then are not as serious, but unfortunately they are serious enough for us to continue working, mainly so that this great country does not lose its way, so that this great country continues to move forward along the path of economic, political, security and european integration that we all want. the members who have listened to the foreign minister and mrs timoshenko this morning will have realized that, unfortunately, the problem is very serious and we must give it special and essential importance. in the few minutes i have in this first speech i will not go into more detail, but i do want to say that the elections which will take place in ukraine, not in a year's time, but in two months' time, will be absolutely crucial for all of us, not only for the european union, but also for ukraine, without a doubt, and for all the countries in the eastern part of our continent, which will be affected by the results of these elections. it would be a great sadness for all of us if what we called the orange revolution a year ago ceased to be an orange revolution and became a revolution of a different nature or a step back in the series of steps forward that this country took a year ago. mr president, allow me to turn to the second point i would like to make: the situation with iran. i think that the honourable members are well aware of what has happened in iran since 3 january this year, a few days ago, and especially of all that has happened since 13 january, when the european union took the decision in berlin to convene an extraordinary meeting of the board of governors of the international energy agency and then to ask that board of governors to refer the dossier on iran to the united nations security council. a lot has happened since then, because the days pass like seconds and the months, like hours. i can tell you that as i speak to you, at this very moment, the representatives of china and russia are in tehran, under a mandate from the five permanent members of the security council plus the european union, to try to make the last effort to be able to reach an agreement at the meeting that is to take place on the 2nd, that is, tomorrow. i can tell you that the night before yesterday, until very early hours of the morning, the members of the european union and the united states had a meeting, in my opinion, important, with russia and china to reach a possible agreement on a draft resolution. and i can tell you that we have reached that agreement, which will be tabled this afternoon in vienna for debate tomorrow. it is a draft resolution, ladies and gentlemen, which calls for the following: first, a call on iran to return to the previous situation, that is to say, not to continue with its ideas or its uranium enrichment aspirations, but to return to the negotiating position; and secondly, a call for the resolution to be tabled this afternoon, with the support of russia and china, to be adopted and for that resolution and all the related resolutions which have been adopted in recent months to be passed to the security council and for the council not to adopt any resolution until the march ordinary meeting of the board of governors. we are trying to send a clear message to the iranian authorities and at the same time to achieve the widest possible consensus in the international community. the issue before us is a fundamental one, linked to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and therefore it seems to us essential to obtain the widest possible agreement among the members of the international community and, very specifically, among the members of the board of governors of the international energy agency. i would not say that i am optimistic, because i think it is difficult to be optimistic on these issues, but i believe that in the last few hours we have made a very intensive effort among all the members of the international community, led, without any doubt, by the positions that the european union has held for several months and several years now. (applause) so we hope that the debate that will begin tomorrow, and which will probably last more than a day, will allow us to move forward on the path of rationalizing iran's position on those issues related to the nuclear aspects. the third point i would like to raise very briefly, mr president, given the time constraints, is the palestinian elections. i have already referred to the good work done by the european union in terms of observation; i would like to make two or three comments on the results. the results, ladies and gentlemen, have been a surprise to everyone: a surprise to hamas, a surprise to fatah, a surprise to israel and a surprise to the international community. hamas was undoubtedly expected to achieve better results than it has recently achieved, but no one - not in hamas, not in fatah, not in the international community - expected the result to be of the magnitude achieved by hamas. what are the positions that i think we should have at this time? and these are not personal positions, they are positions which have already been agreed by the general affairs council, by the foreign ministers on monday morning - that is to say, a few hours ago - and in the afternoon, in the quartet, with our friends in russia and the united states and with the secretary-general of the united nations. ladies and gentlemen, we think - and i think we think well - that we must continue to help president abu mazen. he ran on a platform that was the platform that we were advocating: the platform to move forward on the path of peace; the platform to recognize that there was a need to negotiate with israel; the platform that there was a need to end the intifada; and the platform that there was a need to put the road map into action. these were the positions of president abu mazen, for which he was massively supported by his fellow citizens in palestine. there have been a few elections since then where hamas has won by a very substantial majority, an absolute majority, on a platform that is in some ways not the same platform as that of president abbas. so, without any doubt, in the future - when the government is formed after the negotiation that will take place, very likely, within several weeks, so very likely we will not have a government until two or three months at least - there will be the possibility of a clash of positions between each other, between what president abu mazen has represented and what hamas represents. in the statement made by the council of foreign ministers on monday, which was subsequently also recognized at the quartet meeting, we said some things which i think are important and which should be known and, above all, explained. we are clearly stating that the elections have taken place, in accordance with the report of the observers and, in particular, the chairman of the observers, in a clear, clean and fair manner. we then say in that declaration that europe is ready to continue to cooperate without any doubt with our palestinian friends, with whom we have cooperated for years and years since the oslo process, in which we have invested european economic resources and also political and psychological resources, to a great extent, and that we are ready to continue to do so; and we are ready to continue to do so in the time between now and the formation of the new government, without any doubt. but once the new government is formed, if it is to be led by hamas, some conditions or some reflections would have to be made in this house. it would be difficult for the european parliament and the european union as a whole not to say clearly to our palestinian friends a number of things, three in particular: the first is that violence is not compatible with the electoral result in a democracy. in a democracy, the parties that are elected must abandon violence and play the democratic game. (applause) the second thing we should say with the same affection and the same affection we have always had for our palestinian friends is that if they want the help of the european union, it is essential that their policy be compatible with what has been, since the oslo agreements, since 1993 until now, the position of this parliament and the position of the european union. we want two states living together in peace and prosperity; we want negotiations to be reached by peaceful means - not by other means - and therefore we ask both sides - if that is what we want - to recognise each other and to recognise each other. it would be impossible for this parliament to support anything which does not contain an explicit recognition by all the palestinian authorities, whoever they are, that israel is a reality with which one must deal and with which one must come to terms. thirdly, we would like to say to our palestinian friends - i have said this to them personally on several occasions since the elections, and i have the opportunity to speak to the president practically every day - that it would be very good if the new government that is born after the elections, within three months, also recognized all the agreements that the palestinian authority has signed in recent years. it would be absurd to start again from scratch in an effort which we have been making for a long time and which many of you have also been making for a long time. so, ladies and gentlemen, this is what we want to say very simply, and i think everyone should understand this; and i believe and hope that our palestinian friends, whatever party they are, whatever party or formation they have participated in these elections, will understand that this is not imposing anything on anyone, that this is not trying to force anyone's will, but it is really stating in a clear, simple way what the position of the european union has been: not since yesterday, but since 1993, when the oslo agreements were signed. and i think that we should all be united in this mission here; i think that, as we have done in the general affairs council, as the quartet has done the night after the general affairs council, we must be firm on this matter. this does not mean that in these difficult times we are living in, in these times when president abu mazen has the enormous responsibility of forming a government, of making contact with all the different political formations, we do not help, or do not help as much as possible president abu mazen in these moments when he still has control of the situation, so that in these three months that he will surely have until the new government is not an economic bankruptcy. it would be a very serious mistake, in my view, if we abandoned president abu mazen today, from an economic point of view, and those resources were not used, or did not arrive, and we ran the risk of finding the palestinian authority in a situation of great difficulty at this hour and at this moment. (applause) it is an appeal to all of us and to the european parliament - if at any time the commission, which i hope it will do, makes a request, a recommendation to the european parliament in this regard - to have the generosity to support president abu mazen in these remaining months until there is a new government, so that he can settle down, settle down and what he means. i think we should say yes, a resounding yes so that this is what happens in the future. i want to tell you that what we have before us is going to be new, it is going to be difficult, it is not going to be easy, but i think we have to remain committed to this peace process moving forward under the conditions to which i referred earlier. these are not conditions, as i said, absurd conditions; they are not conditions that come out of one crazy night, but they come out of many years of work, of working together, of working with our palestinian friends so that the process can go forward. mr president, i will now briefly say a few words about the situation in kosovo following the death of president rugova. i had the sadness - and the joy, too - of participating in president rugova's funeral. the family asked me to speak on behalf of the european union at that time, and i did so, thinking of all of you, thinking of all the citizens of europe, who i am sure were accompanying president rugova at that time. but it's a difficult process, let's not kid ourselves. because if the process itself, with president rugova alive and him being the umbrella, let's say, of the whole political operation that is coming at us, was already difficult, we can imagine what it will be without his presence. in my speech i asked the political leaders and the people of kosovo in general for generosity, unity and responsibility at this time in order to move forward, and i believe that somehow those words, spoken by me or by others, have been heard: today we already have a person who replaces president rugova, something i feared would take much longer to arrive, and who will also chair the team that will jointly, under the leadership of mr ahtisaari, former president of finland, negotiate with our friends in serbia. let us hope, therefore, that we can move in that direction, that we can move relatively quickly, but i repeat that it will be necessary to put a lot of energy into moving along this path towards a final solution to the situation in kosovo, which would certainly mean a fundamental step for the stability of the entire balkan region, of the countries to which we have offered the european perspective since the thessaloniki summit and on many occasions. mr president, i think my time is running out and i would be very sorry if i could not develop some of the other issues that i would have liked to develop with you, given the enormous activity that has taken place in the last 20 days. i would like to say that we are continuing to work very intensively with the african union to try to solve the peace problem in darfur. we have made a lot of progress in the north-south negotiations, reaching an agreement, but unfortunately we have the abuja process, which has not made any progress. we're working as hard as we can in that direction. fortunately, the african union meeting has found a compromise formula so that the president of the african union is the president of congo brazzaville and not the president of sudan, which would have been a major problem for future negotiations; therefore, and with great satisfaction, we will do everything possible to move the abuja process forward and, at the same time, we will start planning - because it will be up to us to take on many responsibilities - the transition from a force that is present on the ground, led by the african union, to a force that sooner or later, but within a few months, will be blue helmets of the united nations and with which, without a doubt, we will have to continue to collaborate. the last word i want to say, mr president, is that, as you know, we have received a request from the secretary-general of the united nations - or at least the presidency and i have received it - to see if we could help in the elections to be held in the democratic republic of the congo, which will give the final impetus to the process of democratic transition in the congo; if it goes well, it will mean the stabilization of part of the backbone of africa; it is therefore something fundamental for all of us. we are being asked to help, and today there is a fact-finding mission in kinshasa which i hope will be able to give us the results of its work on the 7th, in a few days' time, to see whether in the end the member states of the european union take the decision to support the united nations in response to this offer, to this request made to us. doing so would be a good decision. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, i have finished. there is no end to the things i would like to share with you on this first day of february 2006, a year which has started with a truly exciting activity, which will make us all tremble and which should make us work with an energy, a capacity and a dedication such as we have rarely seen in the european union. the european union, by the will of its honourable members, by the will of the citizens of europe and by the will of the governments of europe, must be a key player on the international scene. and as you have just seen, ladies and gentlemen, by merely stating what has happened this month, we have no choice but to be, whether we like it or not: we cannot close our eyes to the problems that are happening in the world, and i want to tell you that the world wants europe to act. wherever you go you find people, political leaders knocking at the door of europe saying: "act. act; you have a way of acting that we like; you have a way of acting that is good for us; you have a way of acting that is better for the world, the multilateral world that the citizens of the european union think about". the eurobarometer, mr president, tells us every day, every month, every two months, but it tells us whenever we ask it what it is that you want. so let us continue along this path, let us try to get parliament and all the institutions to work together, because we are needed for a better world. mr president, i would like to talk a lot more, but i know that's not possible. i shall therefore remain silent and await the questions which you will put to me and i shall endeavour to answer them in the best possible way, with the same respect and affection which i have always shown for this parliament. thank you, your honours. (applause) i would like to thank
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. if we look at the starting points of european foreign and security policy a few years ago, we must say that the actors have achieved enormous things and that in the balkans, in the eu-3 and in many other areas, achievements are being made that were not possible before, and that the european union has made a great contribution to stability in this world through enlargement policy, neighbourhood policy, mediterranean policy and much more. the european parliament has always supported this work and is aware that it cannot be an active foreign policy-maker like all other parliaments, because foreign policy is the task of the executive. but parliament must be able to exercise control. however, we are in a situation where this control cannot be carried out adequately because we are usually informed later and not involved in the discussion process a priori. we must work on improvements and take things forward in accordance with this interpretation of article 21. i hope that this will be possible by peaceful means vis-à-vis the council and the commission. but we must also see that parliament can only present budgetary arguments to get something done. we must get out of this situation if we are to put parliament in a better position in terms of control and consultation. for example, what is it like in the congo? we have all read in the newspapers that there is an idea of also being active with military forces in the congo. but nobody has ever, at any stage, brought this matter before the european parliament or the committee responsible in the first place. i think that this is not the way to proceed. i said that a lot of positive things have been achieved. but you can also see things as the glass is either half full or half empty. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the situation in iran, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the situation in iran. the possibility that iraq will one day have a shiite government that might ally with iran; hamas, which is winning elections in palestine and has cross-links with iran, being financed by iran; and hezbollah and all that. when you consider what this scenario means for world peace but also for our energy security for example, and when you see at the same time that a politically reawakened russia is using energy as a political tool, so that countries in our neighborhood are worried about whether they can preserve their independence and freedom of decision, then this is a scenario that can be depressing. and this is just a small excerpt of it. it is a scenario which shows that we in the european union are in a worse foreign policy situation today than we were a year ago and that we must therefore develop a strategy to deal with it. we must be much more active and, for example, in the case of ukraine and energy policy in general, we must link things together in such a way that no single country can be punished, but that we all look after our interests together. our member states and our neighbours must understand that we have no chance of protecting our interests unless we do so together and not each for himself. no one can save himself alone; only together can we pursue our interests this needs to be clarified. (applause from the centre) we must also make our contribution in the balkans, where important decisions are to be taken this year with the referendum in montenegro and the negotiations on the status of kosovo. the question of how to involve serbia in this is one of the really big and difficult tasks. the transatlantic relationship must be decisively improved if what i have described as the scenario is to be put right by the shared values that unite us. it also means that we have to be strong to influence american policy, including the preemptive approach of policy, to reinforce the dialogue character of policy, to provide a greater level of security in a multilateral world. that means we're gonna have to tweak some instruments. we would like to have mr solana as european foreign minister as from 1 january 2007. we have not achieved this with the constitution. but this means that the instruments must be improved so that a high degree of agency of all the institutions is achieved and not a conflict of institutions. mr solana said that the world wants a european foreign policy, also based on this multilateral approach. the citizens want a european foreign policy. no area is so important to the citizens that we have to act together. it is a responsibility which we should try to overcome together with our colleagues at national level and to find common ground here so that we can safeguard the right to life of our citizens. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from mr solana a sobering opening statement for 2006. the council of ministers has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the council will take it up again in the near future. mrs ferrero-waldner has presented the same point of view. so we are challenged! europeans must also be aware that what solana, winkler and ferrero-waldner describe is nothing but the european union's neighbourhood policy. the crisis regions mentioned here are on the doorstep of the european union. the crisis in which they are developing is a risk to every citizen of our union, because that is what we have to call it. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the european union's foreign policy is more than ever a core element - indeed, as elmar brok rightly says, a core element - of european policy, supported and desired by the population. but let 's be honest with ourselves . the instruments needed to ensure an efficient european policy that is fit for purpose are not sufficiently available. that is why we as a parliament must press for it to be improved. in addition to the example of ukraine, we all saw a year ago how efficient we can be when we are present on the ground with the modular composition of our capabilities. there is javier solana, the high representative of our union, who can act and speak on behalf of everyone, and polish president kwaśniewski, as president of a neighbouring country with good influence in the country and a constant feedback loop to other heads of government who in turn could influence those involved from within the european union, for example the russian government. they helped to bring about a peaceful solution in the context of this orange revolution. and now a year has passed and we hear today: there is a rollback. those who were here today from ukraine told us that many of the gains of the past year are again in jeopardy. i do not need to add anything to the description of the threat posed by the energy situation, which is also very serious for ukraine. how is it possible that in one year, what we celebrated so enthusiastically a year ago is now experiencing such a rollback? we have to think about it. mr winkler, you are right, we must also think about this in the context of the financial perspective. the council cannot go around saying at every meeting that we must be involved internationally and then withhold the funds needed for that. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. hamas must renounce violence, yes! but the eu must also keep its word! and if you do not want to make the mistake that was made in algeria, namely not to recognise a legitimate election, you must talk to hamas. we must be clear about that. it is also a contribution to peace that we keep our word. then we can also demand that the others move towards democracy, especially hamas. i hope that works. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr solana, you have addressed the balkans. i just want to say that we wholeheartedly support your efforts. in the balkans we have a direct responsibility for peace in europe. we cannot allow this to happen, and we must constantly develop the european perspective in a credible and straightforward manner. on iran: i would like to congratulate you on the fact that you have succeeded in bringing together the very diverse voices of europe in the resolution of monday evening. i would like to appeal to everyone to continue to use every margin for diplomacy and negotiation, especially in the way i have described. it is good news that now the meeting of the iranians with china and russia will take place. but we should also be clear that the decision whether the red line has been crossed, whether world peace is in danger, is not taken by mr schüssel or mr steinmeier, but solely by the united nations. we cannot control the situation alone, and it is difficult to find ways to return to a ratio with a hate preacher like ahmadinejad. but this very ratio is part of our european security strategy, which you have presented: the non-proliferation strategy. we know that an escalation in iran would massively jeopardize the very interests that we represent - namely preventing iran from getting nuclear weapons, reducing the threat, thus increasing security for israel. i hope that we can find a peaceful solution there, even if it is difficult. there is another voice in iran, let me say that as the head of the delegation. i refuse to accept diplomatic relations ... (the president withdrew the floor.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr wurtz asked mr solana what had improved in the last two years - that it was within the european union's power to make the world a better place. if you have wished for the power of the world's only superpower to be reduced and for us to come to a multipolar world, you can hardly be surprised that this is the case. some of the contributions reflect a bit of a disappointed eurocentric worldview in this multipolar world. i can only say: welcome, but unfortunately the world has not become more beautiful, just because it is multipolar and because new world powers, new regional powers are emerging. in view of this situation, we europeans have not been so bad, and i join in congratulating mr solana on reaching a joint decision with china and russia on whether to bring iran's nuclear aspirations before the world security council. i just hope this leads to something. but i don't think the way we're going is so bad.
member of the commission. mr president, let me come back to a few questions that have been mentioned. the most important issue, as many of you have said, is that today we need a stronger europe in foreign policy. in order to get a stronger europe in foreign policy we have to work together. we have to work together particularly on those topics that are now very topical. one of them mentioned by many of you was that of energy policy. as i have said before, we are working on that at the moment. that means, of course, that we should have a better conducted energy policy, if not a common external one. i know we have to head for this at the very least, and we already have quite a lot of valuable instruments with which to do so, including political dialogues and specific energy dialogues. then there are multilateral dialogues: we have to bring in opec; we have to speak more with opec and with the gulf cooperation council. as i said, the strategy of diversification will be crucial for all of us. we have to look into the integration into the european energy market of the energy markets of our neighbouring countries, following the example of the south east european energy community, for instance. we also have a lot of financial instruments to encourage energy topics to come together. the security of energy supply, as i have mentioned before, is crucial. therefore i can promise you that we are working on it and as soon as the communication is out, we will come back to that. as mr rasmussen mentioned, it is also very important to see pre-emptive diplomacy. that is crucial. i agree with that. of course, such diplomacy sometimes needs patience. you cannot eradicate poverty from one day to the next; you cannot work on all the different kinds of crisis management or even post-crisis management and have a change immediately. for that we need a sustainable and cohesive way forward. migration is another very important new topic on foreign policy. again, we will all have to work together with the countries of origin, with the transition countries, with the european union to find the right way of balancing out an internal and an external policy. the fight against terrorism; the fight against drugs: all of that will take us many years, but these battles will increasingly have to be fought from a united front. weapons of mass destruction; the support for democracy, the rule of law and free and fair elections: this is all mentioned in our neighbourhood policy, so of course we will also take that very seriously. we have a positive incentive on that in our barcelona programme, for instance, but we also need every support so as to be able to make real progress with this policy. strategic partnerships with major powers, such as trans-atlantic relations; relations with china, india, brazil; and the very good relations with latin america: these are all important because here we have the possibility to work together in a multilateral framework, also working with the united nations, as has been said. of course, it is also is important that we are able to combine the work for our common values in the multilateral strategy. the neighbourhood policy is an important part of the security strategy, because we really try to export stability by working together with ukraine, the southern caucuses and the mediterranean countries. therefore we have high aspirations to make europe safer; we know we have many challenges ahead, but i do not see another way forward other than trying to enhance all our instruments and work for a common europe built on common values together with the world.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is impossible to go over the full range of issues that have been discussed here in detail in a short space of time. i would like to make a few points which i consider important as a representative of the council. the high representative said it first, and many of you have said it again: there is a demand for european foreign policy in the world. it is also a matter for the european citizens, and we - the council, the commission and the european parliament - must work together to meet this need. mr graham has already said that we must build the european union on values. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their economic and social cohesion. i can only agree with this and assure you that the austrian presidency during these six months - like the previous and subsequent presidencies - will also be committed to these values: the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, but also - as mr geremek has said - what is generally known as human security, the fight for health, the fight against armaments and arms control. the european union pursues a peaceful foreign policy. we are not a military power in that sense. preemptive diplomacy is the key. we are trying to act by peaceful means within the framework of the multilateralism to which we are committed, within the framework of the united nations charter and within the framework of international law. it is the only way to maintain our credibility in the world. i would like to make a few brief comments on some of the issues raised. energy policy has been mentioned here several times. i would like to add to what commissioner ferrero-waldner has said. the commission obviously has a very important and essential role to play here, and the council presidency is working very closely with the commission. the question of a european energy policy will play a very important role at the european council in march. the british presidency has already laid the foundations for this. we want to continue this. the security of energy supply, as it is also mentioned here, is a very important issue. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the aim is to reduce unilateral dependence on energy suppliers and networks and, in particular, to promote and strengthen renewable energy and alternative energy sources. we shall of course deal with this subject. in this context, russia has also been mentioned repeatedly. the european neighbourhood policy in general and the european policy towards russia are of particular importance. russia is an important partner. we have to have a dialogue with russia in which we also mention these values that i have spoken of. the european union is not a party to the conflict. this is also done in a very intensive dialogue. but i think we must be aware that russia, like the united states, is an important strategic partner for the european union. i am particularly grateful to mrs beer for including the balkans in her speech. javier solana did this in his introduction. the western balkans region is a very special priority for the austrian presidency during these six months, in the interests of stability in the region and thus in the interests of peace and stability in europe. the european union's foreign policy has also been said to focus primarily on the neighbourhood. that is what is happening and that is what is important. but there is no crisis in the world today, no situation that does not also affect the interests and stability of the european union. the european union is therefore a global player and must therefore equip itself with the means to fulfil this role. if the high representative is today travelling around the world tirelessly - in the truest sense of the word - in the interests of peace, he is doing so in the interests of a credible european foreign policy, in our own interests and also in the interests of stability and peace in europe. let me now turn to a subject which is of particular importance to our citizens and which is also one of the priorities of the austrian presidency, namely the protection of european citizens in third countries. past events and crises have already shown that we as the european union have a responsibility to protect our citizens in third countries. we want to contribute here, as the austrian presidency, to ensuring that cooperation in the consular field is better organized and shaped and equipped with the appropriate means for this protection of citizens abroad. finally, china was mentioned. i have only one thing to say on the question of the arms embargo: there is currently, as you know, no consensus in the council. that question is not on the agenda. but whatever the outcome of this decision, it is a principle of the council and of european foreign policy that there should be no increase in arms exports to china.
high representative. mr president, i just want to close very briefly, because much of what i said in general terms was a repetition of what we think. we are trying to repeat in different words what the majority of people think about the foreign policy of the european union. i would prefer, instead of going through a litany of topics every time we meet, that we try to concentrate on some of the topics and go deeper. at the end of the day we have gone through the all the world’s problems in two hours or so, with i do not know how many speakers. we want to make this debate useful. for that i thank mr watson for his good recommendation that i appear less on television and come here instead. i promise you that every time i go on television i will call you beforehand, so you can take note of how much time i spend on television and how many hours i spend here! so take note of that! but having said that nicely and kindly to my good friend, i would like, if possible, to organise a debate so that we can go deeper into the topic, which is very important. i shall try to concentrate on a small number of topics, which are very important. we can talk about common foreign policy, but if we fail, it will not be common foreign policy. we may as well just close down if we fail. look at the balkans: if we are not ready and willing to get the balkans right, we can talk about iran, we can talk about whatever you want, but we will fail, and i do not want to fail. therefore, you will always find me working. that is what i am trying to do and that is what i will continue to do. thank you for the kind words some of you said about my work. thanks also to those who do not appreciate it. i would also like to thank leïla shahid for the kind words she has said about me over the last few days when i defend, and as she should defend, the position of president abu mazen, whom we should try to help as much as we can. i think he is the most important person we should now support. on the other issues let us see how things happen. in the coming hours we will probably have some very important decisions to take. i will be ready and willing, if time permits and you are ready to come, to make a statement to explain if something of great importance happens. mr president, i leave it to you. if you want to take it up, do so. if you do not, then do not. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the results of the elections in palestine and the situation in the middle east, and on the council's decision not to make the report on east jerusalem public.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we were surprised to see something that was taken for granted: that one party won that made people feel they cared about the people, while the others were judged to be corrupt drivers. we must draw our own conclusions from this: we need to do even more to make eu aid visible, to make it clear to citizens that it is worth being for peace and democracy. i think that's not just true for governments. the result of the elections is a terrible thing for this region. in any case, we can assume a five-year rhythm: rabin died about ten years ago, and peres was not elected after acts of terrorism; five years later, the intifada began, and now it's happening again. it's always starting over. i believe that we must not, however, give up hope that hamas will be part of the development. but we must make clear the conditions under which this is done. if hamas takes over the autonomy authority after the composition of the parliament, it must pledge to renounce violence, to recognize israel's right to exist and to recognize the agreements already made, so that we do not have to start from scratch again. i hope that this will happen before the israeli elections, so that there are no negative approaches there which would make it even more difficult for us to find each other again. it will be necessary for the quartet to make clear during this period that if this works, economic aid will be provided and security guaranteed. that's why i'm glad the quartet responded so quickly this weekend. i would also like to express my gratitude to mrs de keyser and her team and to our parliamentary delegation, led by mr mcmillan-scott, for their work.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there is no doubt that mistakes have been made in the past, but now it is time to look ahead. we must not jump to conclusions, and the next strategy must be well thought out. it was rightly said in the debate that of course there is still a partner: president abbas is a partner with whom we must continue to talk, with whom we must continue to act. the new government will not be able to change the constitution, which will come into force, and we can continue to count on abbas as a partner. we must not lose hope and look to the future. but one thing is also clear, and the council made this very clear on monday - as did the quartet - that there are principles from which we must not depart, and these undoubtedly include non-violence, recognition of israel's right to exist and the continuation of the peace process. it has also been said time and again that european policy must be balanced. i can't agree more. of course, european policy must be balanced. i have also made clear in my opening statement the council's position on our relationship and our criticism of israel. the important thing is that europe speaks with one voice. it's also important that we speak a common language with our partners in the quartet if we want to make an impact. i am particularly grateful to the commission for having thought very carefully and without unnecessary haste to develop a strategy for how we can help the palestinian people. it has been said many times in the debate that we must not abandon the palestinian people, who have suffered and are suffering a great deal. i know that the commission, commissioner ferrero-waldner, is pursuing a very good and coherent policy here - we should all support it.
member of the commission. madam president, mr hans winkler, secretary of state and president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me thank you all for the kind words on the elections and the observations. all credit goes to mrs de keyser and her team as well as to mr mcmillan-scott and his team. the credit also goes to the palestinian people, who have shown that they can elect in a free and fair way, even if we are not always satisfied with the result. we now have to agree to respect the will of the palestinian people. as we said in the quartet statement, the palestinians have now voted for change. we know why. at the same time, they desire peace. polls show that there is a slight majority in favour of peace with israel. this has to be the way forward. we are ready to continue to support the palestinian people. we wish to do so, just as we have done until now. there is no other organisation other than the european union, and particularly the european commission, that has done so much for the palestinian people for years. however, being elected and taking office is also a matter of political responsibility. that is why we ask - and even expect - that a new palestinian government confirm its commitment to peace through peaceful means, in particular through the three conditions that were mentioned in the quartet statement: non-violence, the recognition of israel and respect for previous obligations, namely the oslo agreement and the road map. these clearly show a commitment to peace, to a two-state solution, but also to an ambitious reform agenda for the palestinian authority. i very much wanted to mention this. i would also like to say that the policy of the quartet - and here we are really working together - is a very balanced one. i heard a few members say that we were one-sided: those who have not yet seen the latest quartet statement should please look at it. i would refer to the last paragraph where we say: 'the quartet reiterates its commitment to the principles outlined in the roadmap and the previous statement, and reaffirms its commitment to a just, comprehensive and lasting settlement to the arab-israeli conflict based on un security council resolutions nos 242 and 338'. i think this, per se, reflects our support for mutual obligations. let me reiterate that our first objective must now be to ensure that israel transfers palestinian tax revenues to the authority. more precisely, this is palestinian money. we do not think it would be constructive for israel to withhold it at such a crucial time. i will also speak to the israeli authorities about this and i know other colleagues in the quartet will also do so. i very much hope that funds will be transferred soon, because they would cover a good proportion of the salaries of the palestinian authority employees and would also provide much-needed income for the families. that would be a humanitarian gesture that israel could make at a crucial time. i am also reassured by the president of the world bank, who is of the same opinion. i met mr wolfowitz yesterday in london. today he has been quoted as saying that "it will help the whole process if the life of the average palestinian improves; we ought to be the last people to disengage". i very much welcome this statement and hope it will help. however, this is also why the members of the arab league should honour their pledges of support as soon as possible. yesterday, at the london conference for afghanistan, austrian foreign minister ursula plassnik and i both took every opportunity to talk to the different arab representatives, in order to make that possible. we therefore have to be very vigilant in this period. it is a crucial period because we also have elections in israel. we want the peace process to be able to continue in the future. i therefore invite members to remain engaged with us. despite its difficulties, we would like to make the path to peace less bumpy in the future. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate was closed by the tabling of six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the eu's position on the cuban government, tabled by mr watson, mrs malmström, mrs bonino and mr pannella, on behalf of the alde group (o-0112/2005 - b6-0675/2005).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the commission very sincerely for presenting a very ambitious report on the application of the postal directive, which is the basis for today's debate and tomorrow's vote here in the european parliament. it has become very clear - and this is reflected in the resolution we adopted in the committee on transport and tourism - that the path we started in 1992 with the green paper on the development of postal services in the european union has been successfully pursued until today. it has succeeded in finding a compromise between the two opposing objectives of universal, high-quality postal services and the increasing competition in this field. this is of course the very specific issue in 2006, if the obligations under the current postal directive are to be met. i am very pleased, commissioner, that the commission has put forward a very ambitious timetable, that the prospective study referred to in this directive has now been commissioned and that we are then in a position to take further decisions on the basis of this prospective study. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the postal market is not telecommunications, it is not electricity, it is not gas. we must therefore look more closely at how we can move forward. in our report we are trying to raise a number of questions which we would naturally like to have answered, mr commissioner, if you are going to present the studies you have planned for this year. we have the material to make decisions. the question is how we can ensure that postal services are available in all areas of the european union - not just in the conurbations, in greater london, in the ruhr area, in berlin, in madrid or in rome - but that all areas of the european union are covered. how can we ensure the high quality we now have in the crossborder sector, and how can we achieve this in this sector which - and the commission communication says so - is a growth area? i can still remember debates in this house where it was said that the post was going to die anyway because we could use the fax because we had e-mail. the postal sector is a growing sector. how can we also mobilise market forces to develop additional products and thus also create additional employment potential in this sector? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i hope that the council will take them up. it is a series of questions which we have also included in this report. if we succeed in making very intensive use of this year together - the commission, the european parliament and the council will eventually join in, as they are not so well represented at the moment - then we will succeed in enabling further development in this sector which will also meet all these conditions at the end of the day. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked very hard on this subject. the postal service affects all of us, everyone has many postal customers in his constituency, many offices, sorting facilities, some from different postal service providers. that is why, of course, there is always a very lively debate both in the committee and here in the european parliament. a heartfelt thank you to all those who have helped to prepare this report. i would also like to say very clearly that a rapporteur is pleased when few amendments are tabled. the ppe group has tabled an amendment which certainly helps to improve a point in terms of language which has not been quite as successful as it was due to the vote in committee. i hope he finds a lot of support. i think that we have, on the whole, produced a proper report which puts the european parliament in a good position to carry out the other legislative tasks successfully.
member of the commission. mr president, i very much welcome this opportunity to briefly inform the house on the state of play of the community’s postal policy from the perspective of the commission and to share with you my thoughts on how i see that policy developing in 2006. but first of all, i should like to thank mr ferber for his report, which is very timely, constructive, balanced and well informed. in fact, the findings of the report correspond with our own thinking. like the report, we are convinced that postal reform in the european union has brought about positive results for all players and has significantly contributed to the european union’s competitiveness. this directive has already paved the way forward by asking the commission to submit this year three initiatives: a third report on the application of the postal directive, a prospective study about the impact of competitive postal markets on universal postal services, and a proposal on the future of eu postal policy. the shape of this proposal will be influenced by a number of factors. one of these, and perhaps the most important, is the impact of community rules on the postal sector. the postal directive, as amended, establishes balanced principles to allow a gradual phasing-in of competition while maintaining the necessary safeguards for the provision of a universal service. i must say in this context that developments to date provide no evidence supporting the need for a change to the deadlines set out in the postal directive. the year 2009 thus remains the reference date for our work. the commission will ensure that the enforcement of the treaty provisions on competition will accompany the process of liberalisation. as far as the state aid rules are concerned, in july 2005 the commission adopted a package of measures providing guidance on the principles under which it assesses public service compensation for services of general economic interest. furthermore, the commission is fully aware of the social relevance of postal services and will pay particular attention to the situation of every member state so as to be able to reach common ground. the results of the prospective study will help us in doing so and will contribute to the analysis of the conditions for a successful postal internal market. additional elements will be provided through the results of our recently conducted public online consultation on the future of european postal services. the commission will continue its preparatory work in full transparency, and pursue its dialogue with all those involved. this own-initiative report of the european parliament represents a very good basis for further discussions. i very much welcome this initiative and i warmly thank mr ferber and his colleagues from the committee on transport and tourism for the excellent work.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the ppe group fully supports the opinion of rapporteur markus ferber on the european commission's interim report. the opinion of the rapporteur is intended to ensure that the measures announced by 31 december of this year will be a genuine examination by the commission of all the economic, technological, social and geographical aspects of the progressive opening-up of the postal market and will show us the consequences. so far, i would like to remind you of this, commissioner, and i would like to hear your answer to this. according to our findings and those of the rapporteur, not all member states have implemented the postal directive in a timely and correct manner. i believe that the commission is called upon to monitor the implementation of the measures taken so far very carefully, depending on the member state, to encourage the member states to do so and, if necessary, to bring the matter before the european court of justice. community law must be applied in all member states. but i would like to say in a conciliatory way that, in view of the generally positive developments in the postal market so far in favour of consumers, i think the commission should stick to the joint decision to open postal services definitively in 2009. i would also ask you to discuss the question of universal service in detail again. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of services, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take a number of initiatives to improve the quality of services. that is our objective. but we should check that carefully. i will give you an example: if germany now also deviates from the principle that the postage for a standard letter is fixed uniformly in germany, but also in all the other 24 member states, then one has to think about what this means. the cost of a standard letter in germany is now 55 cents, while the cost of a letter of the same type in all other eu countries is 70 cents for the first time. if this means that postage is set differently depending on the cost of the service, the distance and the type of delivery, what is the justification for a universal service? what justification is there then for restricting competition by a regulated, reserved area? we should carefully examine what the universal domain is, what we want to ensure with it and whether we need a reserved domain for this. i look forward to your inquiry and your comments. thank you very much, commissioner.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. mr president, i would like to thank you for the excellent report you have just presented. i would like to say to my colleague malcolm harbour: it is very important that we respect the cultures and traditions of the member states. we should do that in legislation again and again. i think my group will also follow these amendments, and there will be no problem. commissioner verheugen, you have just said that we need better legislation and, above all, better implementation of european law. i'm with you on that. but i would also like to remind you that it is also the european commission's responsibility to ensure that this legislation is actually implemented. i ask you to be very strict on these matters, because as a european i would like to see what we decide in europe actually implemented. on the other hand, you said that you were guided by the average consumer, as is the european court of justice. this is understandable; you need a size to guide you. but as a social democrat, i am thinking in particular of people who do not fit into this average but who have special conditions because they are handicapped, because they are older or because they take advantage of the various possibilities that exist in the member states and that are also offered by companies for whatever reason. the reliability of purchasing basic foodstuffs, such as milk or bread, is particularly important here. we must therefore ensure that this reliability is maintained in trade. so we shall be voting in favour of the rapporteur's proposals.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in september 2001, the commission adopted the new white paper entitled 'european transport policy by 2010: a roadmap for the future'. the white paper outlined the prospects for development up to that date. the commission proposed at the same time some 60 different measures and an action programme, in particular to improve road safety. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens is implemented. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. let me mention the main results of the compromise now before us: firstly, driving time must not exceed nine hours a day. secondly, the weekly driving time must not exceed 56 hours and must not lead to the maximum working time laid down in the working time directive being exceeded. thirdly, the total driving time over a two-week period must not exceed 90 hours. fourthly, the regular daily rest period is 11 hours in succession or, if divided, three and nine hours. this has been in particular in response to the desire of motorists for more flexibility, because winter and summer rest periods can be used very differently under different climatic conditions. fifthly, the regular weekly rest period is fixed at a minimum of 45 hours. sixthly, the introduction of the digital tachograph has enabled greater and better control of compliance with the rules. seventhly, the liability of transport companies has been clearly regulated. eighth: the required control density has been increased to 2% from 2008 and to 3% from 2010. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. if we compare the documents now under discussion with those which were valid before, we can clearly see that there has not been a single deterioration. however, if we compare the results obtained with the ideas we had at the beginning of the processing, we sometimes get different results. some examples: firstly, vehicles under 3.5 tonnes are exempted from the regulation, despite the fact that more and more transport is being carried out in these weight categories and the frequency of accidents is increasing. secondly, there are only two references to the working time directive, but no control of the same during the driving and rest checks. in my view, this is far from a guarantee that over-tiredness and exceeding peak hours will be reduced or eliminated. thirdly, although the annex to the control directive defines what constitutes an infringement of the regulation, there is no legally binding harmonisation of the regulation. fourthly, there is no provision for harmonized sanctions. this means that member states continue to apply different penalties for the same infringements. when you weigh all this, you can say that we have found a lot of flexible solutions together. we naturally hope that this legislation will be included in the new aetr within the two-year period provided for, and thus also be valid for the countries which are not member states of the european union but nevertheless use the roads of the european union, so as to establish a genuine level playing field in competition. i personally - as most of you know - voted against the compromise reached in the conciliation committee. i did so because i was convinced that parliament could have done more and that the majority in parliament had stopped negotiating with the council too soon. i can therefore understand why there are not only those who support the compromise now before us in today's vote. the majority of those concerned by the regulation and the directive are not really happy, but they have voted in favour of adopting these two dossiers by an absolute majority. i shall take that into account in my vote. i would like to ask the commission to do three things: firstly, i would like to see a study of the behaviour of vehicles for the transport of goods of less than 3.5 tonnes, because i am always hopeful that we will be able to introduce a different lobbying approach and at a later stage to include these categories in the regulation. secondly, help to coordinate the different organs to control driving, resting and working time. thirdly, in cooperation with the member states and the social partners, organise seminars to implement this new case law as quickly as possible. finally, i would like to thank all those who have worked with me on this dossier for many years - in particular mr hauck and mr darmis - and my shadow rapporteurs. it was a very good collaboration. it was a little unusual, but it was worth it. i would also like to thank my colleague, vice-president vidal-quadras, who has been very independent in the negotiations, and the person responsible, mr tziorkas. i hope that the digital tachograph will be introduced quickly, that the member states will make the driver cards available and that we will have made a step forward in our efforts to establish a little more social justice, road safety and fair competition on the roads of the european union.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not if we decide today on the regulation on driving and rest periods, we will undoubtedly make progress. the minimum daily working time is increased, the maximum driving time is reduced, the digital tachograph is introduced to prevent manipulation, the past 28 days can also be checked, and last but not least, long journeys and times to the place of work are finally counted as working time. all this is progress, and it is also due to our rapporteur, helmut markov, who has made a really excellent effort to represent parliament's position throughout the procedure, right up to the end. that is why a large part of my group will agree with this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council has not succeeded in making concessions in this area, despite parliament's many offers of compromise. but the driver's other work - loading and unloading, repairs, forms - is all part of his working time. these other tasks are tiring and therefore have a direct impact on road safety. it is therefore necessary to be able to check compliance with the working time directive in connection with driving and rest periods. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the council was not able to do so and it has also been obliged to give reasons for this. the reason for the council's refusal became clear a week later. ten member states have not yet transposed the working time directive at all, despite the deadline for doing so having expired in march 2005. the 10 member states are germany, greece, ireland, italy, luxembourg, the netherlands, austria, portugal, spain and the czech republic. it is no wonder that the council has refused to make any further link with another act. i would have liked to have had this information from the commission earlier in this procedure. i think that we might have discussed this subject a little differently, given that 10 member states have not yet transposed this directive. driving and rest periods, working time policy and control go together. the council has refused to do so, and that is why i am voting no to this result today.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr piecyk, i think that your argument for rejecting the proposal is wrong. we would also like to have had a link with the control of working hours. but if you had insisted on the late evening of december 6th, we would have achieved nothing. we'd have spent two years negotiating for nothing. and we cannot accept that. i think that updating, modernising and simplifying social legislation is good for all concerned - that was the general opinion this morning - and that is why we had to do it. and that is why i am appealing to all colleagues to agree to the compromise this afternoon. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected, and that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. so let's all agree to the outcome. it helps everyone and above all it helps people on the streets. but i would like to make two points, commissioner. i am glad that we have now settled the question of the final date for the introduction of the digital tachograph. i would urge you - in the light of what my predecessor has said - to speak once again seriously with the member states so that they can also guarantee the state infrastructures, the provision of driver cards, etc. the digital tachograph was originally due to be introduced in august 2004. we have reasonably postponed this to may this year for reasons of practicality for the economy. but if some member states have not yet completed their administration, then consider bringing these member states before the kadi.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fellow thuringians! do you know the european driving and resting time regulations? for the last twenty years, the most important legal basis for europe's forwarding and omnibus industries has been developing. the only problem is that it is outdated, bureaucratic, the controls are easily manipulated and the controls are not indiscriminate. the lisbon treaty calls for improved conditions: road safety, worker protection, competition and reduction of red tape. i therefore welcome the compromise that has finally been reached. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. even the control density and a sanctions catalogue have been agreed. if we agree to this today, we seal the entrance into the digital age. this creates clarity, even with the introduction of the digital tachograph. it will be mandatory for new lorries and buses from may 2006. vehicles without digital tachographs can then be withdrawn from circulation. member states shall ensure the smooth transition from analogue to digital. will they achieve this ambitious goal? if not, there will be major distortions, for example when a vehicle equipped with a digital tachograph is inspected in an eu country whose officials are still not equipped with the necessary reading equipment. problems also arise because agreements with eu neighbours are still pending. what are we going to do about the ukrainian truck driver who is being checked in brussels but has never heard of the digital tachograph? and how do you think europeans are controlled in turkey? i would like to see the aetr regulations adapted to the digital age.
in writing. i reject the present resolution on cuba. it is one-sided and does not in the least reflect the complexity of cuban reality. condemning cuba means denying cuba's efforts to pursue a different path of development, which it defends against multiple obstacles; to ignore the fact that cuba has achieved exemplary achievements for its people and continues to do so today despite the us embargo and serious economic difficulties; to deny that the continued existence of the cuban system is a beacon of hope for those in the so-called third world who are the losers of a market- and profit-oriented globalized world. the present resolution reduces the concept of human rights and, in its use of human rights, expresses an intolerable double standard. the aim of the resolution is not to defend human rights, but to condemn the cuban system and to contribute to its abolition. i'm not going to be a part of this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs neyts-uyttebroeck is raising a point which we have also discussed in this context in the conference of presidents. i would like to say on behalf of my group what i said at the conference of presidents: we believe that it is not sensible to adopt a resolution at this stage, and we also believe that it is sensible to limit the speaking time in this very important debate to one speaker per group. we therefore believe that what the conference of presidents decided and what was put on the agenda here should remain as it is.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we always listen to you because we respect your office and your person. of course we have to vote on each of these factors individually, but they are linked and i have to comment on that link. first of all, i should like to say that we could have settled this at the conference of presidents on thursday. i was the only one who called for both a motion for a resolution and a debate on behalf of my group. the liberals were very decidedly against. that is why i am surprised that the liberals are now making this proposal. but it's her right. we have just received word in our group that the liberals are requesting this. we say yes to one thing, but we say no to another. we are saying no to a general debate now because we would then have to take an item off the agenda. we don't want that. we therefore recommend that we hold a wide-ranging debate on this subject in the european parliament in march or at a suitable time. but on the resolution, our group - as in the past - thought we should have a resolution. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i regret to say this, and i regret that we are in the situation we are in here, but we have just voted on whether there should be a resolution. we have said yes, and if there is a resolution, then it must be voted on this week and not in march or later. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree with mr cohn-bendit. but i also want to tell you that i'm a little bit annoyed by some of the things that are going on here. i have just properly signed up to a motion for a resolution on which we can speak for and against. i spoke in favour of it and you reprimanded me for it. you said we were calling for a debate, which i still can't figure out. now we have the debate and mr voggenhuber complains that this is not right either, because only group chairmen would be speaking. so somehow we have to come up with a structured approach. i therefore ask you now: if the liberal group's motion was received here outside the time allowed and was nevertheless called for, then my colleague swoboda's motion is equally justified, namely to say: it has now been decided that this resolution should be drafted, but we ask that the vote on it be postponed until the next mini-plenary session in brussels. that's the next possible point. i ask that we vote on this properly now. one for, one against, and then we can vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to draw your attention to the fact that, thank god, there is no mini-plenary session in brussels, but that the next ordinary plenary session is here in strasbourg.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i'm from leipzig. two engineers were abducted in iraq three weeks ago and so far there is no sign of life, except for a video message in which the kidnappers threaten to kill the two victims. this is worrying not only relatives and family, but many, many people in leipzig who are very worried and who express their grief in peace prayers and vigils. such a kidnapping is not a national matter. the two men are german and european citizens. i therefore ask the council and the commission: what have you done in the meantime to save the lives of these hostages? please send a message of solidarity and concrete support. i would also ask you, mr president, on behalf of the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the main political forces in europe are more committed to the objective of increasing the competitiveness of our continent and thus reducing mass unemployment. so we are credible and decent when we do something for the people who don't have jobs. this week we are voting on the services directive, the implementation of which could create 600 000 new jobs, 100 000 of them in my home country of germany, if it is adopted in the version of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. the prospects for this are now very slim, because the epp has fallen and the spe has won its way across the board. the trade unions are not impressed by this and continue to spread untruths and panic. tomorrow, 30,000 well-organized, well-fed and well-dressed demonstrators are expected to prevent the creation of 600,000 jobs. the owners of the workplace are fighting for their property. it's immoral and repulsive. we are called upon to do something for those people who have no work, because they have no officials to take them to strasbourg by bus.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the rapporteur has written in his explanatory statement: 'every farmer who keeps something for himself has respect for his animals.' obviously there must be some who are not so far along in this respect, otherwise we would not have to pass a legal regulation. i think the problem is also that many of those who work in this chicken coop are no longer farmers at all, but industrialists who use their capital independently of the question of respect for life. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animals are not treated as pets, and that the animals are not treated as pets. if you look at these cases, it is imperative that we come to a legal arrangement. we agree on that. i think we must be careful that this directive and this regulation do not also encourage this industrial production. the problem is that these establishments often have a healthy exterior, but only because they are covered by preventive vaccinations and medications. so what this does is, while it prevents an outbreak, these are the germ cells for variations like the ones we're having now or the ones we're afraid of in the avian flu area. the fact that now protective measures are being taken for free-ranging animals is therefore particularly problematic, because these are the animals which, due to their species-appropriate behaviour, still develop the strongest resistance to disease. we must be very careful not to hit the wrong people, and we must see that the special markets served by these animals, which are more expensive and accepted by people, are not ruined to the ecological detriment of the farmers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr berman, very warmly for his work. in the european union, some 5 billion broilers are slaughtered each year. the great challenge of this report is to strike a balance between the necessary protection of animals and the preservation of jobs in the economic production of broilers. it is certainly right that we should make a joint proposal to improve and harmonize the conditions for keeping broilers in the eu. this is also indisputable for breeders and keepers. i too support the report, but the producers already have the lowest profit margins today. the problem of higher standards within the community is particularly the problem of imports from third countries which produce far below our standard. i therefore call for the introduction of a european-wide, harmonised, meaningful and binding labelling system based on the observance of safety standards. secondly, i would ask that in future wto negotiations certain standards be required for the rearing and production of broilers and other agricultural products. the high eu standard in food production is to be an advantage for eu producers. we want animal welfare, but we cannot allow our producers to be put at a disadvantage. the current threat of avian influenza also tells us that we must attach importance to safe, sufficient and economic production of broilers in europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i can relate directly to my predecessor. it is true that europe is only competitive if it is also innovative in the field of environmental protection. i would like to see a bonus not just for innovation but above all for environmental information. that is what i am missing in your draft, commissioner. secondly, there is an important passage in the report, namely that the de minimis rules 200 000 euro per year must really apply to such establishments. they are very general, commissioner. that is not enough. we know that we need these farms, especially in rural areas, to have a basic supply of economic development there. we know that the regions affected by the demographic effect need businesses to move in, and we need government support for this. otherwise we cannot counteract such effects. i think it is important that there should be a significant increase in this. finally, i come to the rules for undertakings providing services of general economic interest. it is not possible for these rules to limit the altmark judgment, because then there is a risk that the commission will define what is a welfare provision through the competition rules. this is exactly the same attempt you make in the services directive, where in your controversial text you sacrifice the provision of services to the free market. that is why i say that we urgently need a framework, even if you do not feel responsible for it. we need them in this case because we want a social europe to be consolidated. the social dimension is a central point, and it cannot be sacrificed to competition rules, because then the citizens of europe will turn their backs on them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report by gunnar hökmark and the discussion in the committee were useful and the report is excellent. your contribution at the beginning, commissioner, was also very hopeful. the reform of state aid policy is of enormous importance to the local level. cities, municipalities and regions are the main contributors to public investment. their local authorities are important instruments for ensuring public services. that has been said before. it is therefore important that the commission explains - and has promised to do so - how it intends to implement the criteria set out in the altmark judgment of the ecj. users need to be clear about the commission's policy to avoid litigation. the more specific the criteria of the altmark judgment are, the more difficult they are to apply. the essential principle in the question of whether or not there is aid, the avoidance of overcompensation on the basis of market comparisons, cannot be attributed to the individual public authorities. you'd have to go through a bureaucratic process that wouldn't be accounted for. however, local bodies could be enabled to do so if they had practical guidelines, as announced, for example to define the relevant market. i welcome the fact that the committee chaired by mr hökmark has drawn attention to the exclusion of public smes from the sme definition and i continue to welcome the conclusion drawn from this. public enterprises work closely with the needs of citizens. they are regarded by the citizens as their own enterprises. the eu will be even more popular if the work of local public enterprises is supported rather than hindered. i would therefore encourage the house to continue to work towards the inclusion of local public enterprises in the sme definition.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you write that one of your key points is that the market economy is always the most efficient way of distributing funds. if we take göteborg seriously and want to have a triangle of economic, social and environmental development, then we can rely on it in business terms, but in the national economy this statement is not true. if you want to have efficient smes, if you want to promote innovation, especially with aid, then you need good training, you need education, you need the appropriate infrastructure, not just in the big agglomerations but also in rural areas. this means that they are forced to rely on having territorial, social and environmental cohesion. on the other hand, you are simply putting people at a disadvantage who live in places where these favourable and natural conditions are not present. i would therefore strongly urge that the way in which aid is used and whether it is actually - and this is necessary - used for services of public interest should be carefully monitored. it doesn't make sense otherwise. you're absolutely right about one thing. they write that it is not sensible to give aid for investment to companies which are profitable. i share that view. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. this cannot be in the sense of aid. you are absolutely right about that. there's a whole lot of patterns that we need to change. the de-minimisation is correct. it is true that we need regional aid, especially for the less developed regions. we need to continue to have the aid provided for in article 87 for the regions now affected by the statistical effect. you can't deny that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr hökmark, for his excellent report. the european parliament, as we heard a few weeks ago, in an own-initiative report, clearly expressed its support for the continuation of state aid to the less-favoured regions until 2013. the support of enterprises by state aid is one of the factors influencing the decision of enterprises to invest in a given area and thus contributes significantly to economic growth and job creation in that area. in principle, the ec treaty does not allow state aid if it has an adverse effect on the internal market, since it may lead to a delay in competition. however, certain state aid for specific purposes is exempted from this principle, such as aid to promote the economic development of disadvantaged regions in europe. as a member of the committee on regional development, i am firmly convinced that direct state aid, in its key role as a regional development instrument, is an important means of achieving priority cohesion objectives. the scope for aid under article 87 (3) (a) of the ec treaty, in conjunction with the regional aid guidelines, has in the past allowed the regions concerned to actively shape the catch-up process by setting up businesses. the loss of these support possibilities would jeopardise the convergence process of these regions, due to the lack of a competitive advantage over regions not lagging behind in development on the one hand and over regions receiving maximum support in the new member states on the other. this is particularly true for regions with an external border with the new member states. reducing red tape in the context of the reform of state aid law is an important aspect of creating a more business-friendly legal environment, as is increasing de minimis aid.
member of the commission. mr president, i count my blessings tonight. i conclude that there is not that much difference between political views on this issue. i congratulate the rapporteur. the content of the report and the commission review are in line with what we discussed during this debate. i should like to underline that there is no rigid dogma. that was made clear on your side. it is more that we try to give a hook to member states’ companies, because the aid does not go to the member states themselves. via state aid, the member state gives a hook to those who need a bit of help, instead of just giving them the fish. they want to do it themselves, but they need a little bit of backing. mrs in‘t veld and other members have talked about less and better state aid. she mentioned that that statement by the commission is appropriate advice, in the opinion of her political group and her personal opinion. i would have been pleased to say that it was my wording, but we got it from the council. aid should be less and better. that is what we tried to indicate and that is what the rapporteur put in his report. state aid reform has to be shaped to deliver not only on growth, innovation and employment, but also on a wide range of primarily non-economic issues. we all agree that they are of fundamental importance to our social european model. these include the social and regional cohesion, human capital and cultural diversity rightly mentioned by mrs van den burg. however, state aid should be used wisely, because it is taxpayers’ money. we should not compete through state aid by the member states, because that is the wrong route. it would have a very detrimental effect. we must not allow a subsidy race between the member states, so there is clearly a need for less aid, and aid that is better targeted. on the specific concerns raised here today, the commission will do its utmost to improve how the rules work in practice. it will also step up transparency, rightly called for by a number of members. aid should be monitored, but in the end it is only through a positive partnership that we will be able to deliver successful state aid reform. a couple of members touched upon the role of the regional aid guidelines and focusing aid on the regions most in need. we discussed this before and it was adopted last year. again that is not dogmatic, but it takes account of the fact that some need more backing at a particular moment. we want to deliver a fair and balanced package and we discussed that here in december. we will look further at how the state aid rules can be adapted to new financing mechanisms such as public-private partnerships. the same goes for aid for projects of common interest to boost competitiveness and technological innovation. the question of innovation has been raised. i have just read an article by professor getz, saying that innovation should not just be developed in the research and development department of a company, it should be at all levels, from bottom to top. that is an interesting philosophy that could be considered when we are talking about how to boost innovation. turning to smes, when we look at the 25 member states, 92% of all the enterprises in the european union are in the category of small and medium-sized enterprises. so when we talk about creating jobs and economic growth, we have to bear in mind that the vast majority fall within the category of small and medium-sized enterprises. that is what we are trying to take into account when we talk about giving them more attention than they have received up to now and to stimulate innovation and cooperation between, sometimes, a combination of research institutes, smaller companies and larger companies. it is a challenge to ensure that all those smes can take advantage of these opportunities. it has rightly been mentioned that risk capital is not very developed in europe. compared to the united states, quite often innovative ideas are not taken up by companies that are small or just starting up because there is no backing from the banks. state aid to back those companies in their early development could be very helpful. mr wortmann-kool asked whether the commission could raise the threshold. i am not saying that we would not be prepared to raise it. however, we should bear in mind that we are talking about smes and not large companies, and we should try to reduce bureaucracy and red tape. the amount of euros we are talking about really covers that category. so we shall be submitting a proposal quite soon, but do not be too optimistic, because i have heard on the grapevine that people are thinking of huge sums of money, but then we are not taking account of the category. on the environment, the commission cannot refuse to approve aid just because the objective pursued is not environmental. i am sure that is not the question that is being asked. we have to look at all the policies of the union. however, the commission shares the aim of reducing environmentally damaging state aid and we should all encourage member states to take that into account when deciding on the subsidy. on public services, services of general economic interest, the commission’s decision and framework makes clear how the state aid rules apply to public service compensation. the commission is committed to reporting on the impact of those rules within the deadlines set by those instruments. as you know, the commission does not consider a framework directive necessary. i am talking about less bureaucracy. i am being consistent and not saying that we should still do it when it is not necessary. finally, the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs have done a great deal of work on this report and i am grateful that we can have a discussion with the same goal, i.e. more jobs for europe, in a social context that we are proud to be living in.
member of the commission. mr president, the european commission welcomes the own-initiative report of the european parliament on the effects of globalisation on the internal market and thanks everyone involved, in particular the rapporteurs mrs herczog and mr markov, as well as the members of the imco and inta committees, for the good work undertaken in putting this report together. i know that it was not an easy task as the issue of globalisation is an extremely complex one. it was also very useful to organise a hearing on the matter. i appreciated the opportunity to speak about the way i see the challenges, and to hear directly what members of parliament and stakeholders had to say. the result is a very balanced and comprehensive report, one which addresses the key challenges in a succinct way. the report is a timely contribution to an important debate. europe needs to find appropriate responses to today’s key challenges: the steadily increasing forces of global competition, the impact of new technologies and our ageing population. as international integration accelerates, the concept of open markets and a globalising economy have come under attack. of course, there are legitimate concerns about globalisation. there have to be proper structures, which can help developing and emerging economies in particular. there is also a clear need for appropriate forms of governance. however, there are those who abuse these arguments to try to undermine the whole concept of economic freedom. i am not denying that many industries go through difficult and sometimes painful transitions. but it does no good to try to shift the balance elsewhere – foreign takeovers, cheap imports, and migrant workers. protectionism is not the answer. it never was historically – it only ever led to great tensions between nations – and it is not now. comparing the degree of openness of economic systems with economic growth and development will show that openness pays. it always has done and it always will. for people first. with jobs. with thriving businesses. by releasing human energies, not capping or constraining them. i am very glad that in its report the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, as well as the committee on international trade, which has given an opinion, takes a constructive and balanced approach towards globalisation. as the report says, we can make globalisation a success if we provide the right conditions, and if we focus on our strengths. and we do not need to be modest about this. europe has a lot to offer. we must make sure that europe and the internal market remain an attractive place for consumers and businesses; an attractive place to invest, particularly for research and innovation activities in high-value products and services, where our businesses excel. this requires a strong, knowledge-based and properly regulated internal market, using the experience we have gained and the lessons we have learned. this is europe’s best response to its domestic problems of low economic growth and high unemployment, but also to the challenge of globalisation. priorities in this context are: an effective implementation of the new lisbon strategy for growth and jobs; the completion of the internal market, including for services, telecoms, energy, and financial services; ensuring simple and effective regulation, which frees businesses and citizens from unnecessary costs and red tape; and making better use of the existing internal market framework, which includes better administrative cooperation across borders. most of the relevant work is already under way, and it is important that all players, at the eu level and at member state level, do everything to make it happen. as the report quite rightly stresses, globalisation also has a strong external dimension for internal market policy-making. we need to be much more outward-looking than in the past and to be aware of the external aspects of our internal economic policies, such as our internal market rules. nothing is simply domestic any more. we need more international regulatory convergence and equivalence of rules. this is particularly important in the area of financial markets, which are leading the way in globalisation. furthermore, europe must use its scale to help deliver ambitious and balanced solutions to problems of market access or regulatory issues. a successful conclusion of the doha round, including on services, is a key element in this respect. everyone will benefit! last but not least, we need a new partnership of the eu and member states. neither can deliver on their own to ensure that europe remains the attractive place that it still is. i am confident that the report of the european parliament will contribute significantly to this important wider discussion on europe in the globalised world.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on international trade has delivered an opinion, which naturally deals primarily with trade issues. we are grateful to the rapporteur for her own-initiative report, although her committee has not adopted all our proposals. but that's politics. what were the priorities from our point of view? the commission had proposed the creation of a special fund to compensate for the possible negative effects of globalisation within the european union. we have said that this is right, that it is necessary and that this fund should be properly equipped. secondly, we had noted that, despite the negative effects, the european union is one of the largest producers and investors in the world and that it has, of course, a very good chance of continuing to be a strong economic power in the context of globalised markets. but we also said that, particularly in trade with third countries, it is necessary to take into account whether these third countries comply with international standards in labour law, social law and environmental law. and we had proposed to extend or adapt the preferential trade arrangements so that certain preferences are granted to those third countries which adhere to them, which have just ratified and implemented the international conventions on occupational safety and environmental protection. commissioner, you have just spoken about the doha round. that's right, you're right. the doha round is very different. in the opinion we gave in our committee we said that we would ask the commission to carry out an assessment of the impact of further multilateral agreements, particularly in the field of agriculture, on services within the european union before we continue these negotiations. there is an interaction. just as we have certain problems within the european union - i could list them here, but there is not enough time - so do the third countries. i believe that we will only move forward together if all sides accept the difficulties of the other side!
member of the commission. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank the council and the european parliament for their efforts in this matter. i also want to express my appreciation for the fact that they were able to reach a quick agreement in a case as difficult as optical radiation. the fourth and final part of the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to physical agents. the adoption of this new directive, the provisions of which are based on the latest scientific findings, will make it possible to ensure better safety and health protection for all workers exposed to optical radiation of artificial origin at the workplace. the commission is pleased that this directive fully respects the acquis communautaire in the field of safety and health protection of workers, while guaranteeing the flexibility and proportionality necessary to maintain the successful competitiveness of the undertaking. the directive we have agreed on is thus part of the improvement of the legislation, since it prevents, on the one hand, a disproportionate or unnecessary burden being placed on undertakings and, on the other, it fulfils the objectives of article 137 of the treaty in the field of the safety and health of workers. ladies and gentlemen, i think that this text is in any case balanced, that it meets the needs of safety and health at work and, as i have already said, that it maintains the necessary proportionality in relation to the competitiveness of undertakings.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. who would not be in favour of protecting people at work from dangerous artificial optical radiation, such as laser light? however, we christian democrats were against regulations on natural optical radiation such as sunlight. construction workers in the open with their caps and long shirts? swimming pool master in disguise? waitresses in the garden club with a veiled cleavage? and all this is prescribed by european standards? we supported german construction workers in their demonstration outside the european parliament here in strasbourg. this was done with the strong help of the epp's sme circle - these are the mediumsized enterprises of my group - and our british colleagues in the ed section, such as the active philip bushill-matthews. with amendments - first in the committee on employment and social affairs, which is the committee responsible, and then in the plenary - we obtained a majority, a majority for the abolition of compulsory health checks and costly sunburn programmes. they would have further increased the already heavy bureaucratic burden on small and mediumsized enterprises. we voted for solutions based on the principle of subsidiarity: member states should decide for themselves on sensible measures adapted to the most varied climatic conditions and, of course, adapted to the different skin sensitivities; it differs from country to country. in the conciliation committee, of which i was a member, we reached a viable compromise after a short period of time in a trilogue with the european commission and the council. we withdrew our demand for the application of the principle of subsidiarity and in return achieved the total elimination of natural optical radiation. the title of the proposal for a directive is now 'optical radiation from artificial sources'. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr csaba öry, once again for his work. we have together set an example of the everyday usefulness of european decisions. the european union should devote less time to marginal issues and much more time to the essential problems, to the fight against unemployment, to sustainable environmental protection and to effective cooperation in internal and external security. i very much hope that the good result in the conciliation committee will find a clear majority in the vote in our house tomorrow!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from optical radiation was a prime example of over-regulation at european level as regards the rules on sun protection. we voted by an absolute majority in the second reading to remove the provisions on protection against natural radiation. we have thus set a precedent as the european parliament. we have also demonstrated our ability to enforce the conciliation procedure and have shown that members are not helplessly exposed to the commission's regulatory rage. we have the power to make policies that are in the interest of the citizens. verheugen and others are always talking about better regulation for more growth and jobs in the eu. it is precisely with such regulations that we must begin. we have now, quite surprisingly, been able to convince the commission and the council of this in the conciliation procedure. the useful parts for the protection of workers against artificial optical rays such as lasers, infrared and the like are preserved. the commission has, however, gone far beyond its objective in the field of natural radiation regulations. the original proposal for a directive included an obligation for employers to carry out extensive risk assessments of solar radiation and to establish bureaucratic action programmes. it would have required employers to provide workers working outdoors with t-shirts and sunscreen. a regulation on natural optical rays would have also created unforeseen liability for employers. moreover, any reasonable person knows best when and how to protect himself from the sun. this is a matter of personal responsibility and is the last thing europe needs to decide. we have quite different problems in europe: unemployment, a sick social system and a growing ageing population. that's what we have to worry about, not sun protection. the commission and the council have also shown their sensitivity and have recognised this in the conciliation procedure. i was very pleased to hear that. we have thus achieved a significant improvement in the directive and have prevented over-regulation which would have led to unnecessary additional costs, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. i urge you to vote tomorrow in favour of the proposal of the conciliation committee and let us make a sign, a sign of de-bureaucratisation and deregulation at european level!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are dealing today for the last time with this directive, which has been the subject of a great deal of public debate in my country. i have rarely seen a directive so distorted. i would therefore like to explain again why we social democrats in the conciliation committee have finally preferred to exclude natural radiation from the directive altogether. we have done this solely because we want the minimum standards of health and safety at work that we have set to be applied equally in all member states. we do not want a europe à la carte in social policy either. the result of the second reading would have meant the exact opposite. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to decide whether or not to require employers to inform their workers of the risks posed by natural radiation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty. the directive also requires employers to protect workers from the risks of exposure to sunlight. this has now been confirmed not only by our own legal service in the european parliament, but also by the legal services of the commission and the council. the only thing we wanted was to make this commitment concrete. but that -- and you have to hear this from the conservative and liberal side -- you have prevented. this leaves employers with legal uncertainty as to the extent to which they are required to take the necessary measures to protect workers from the risks of natural radiation. the majority of this house has thus finally given up on political decision-making and has given it to the european court of justice, which is really very regrettable.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too would like to thank the rapporteur very much for his report. the reactions have shown that there is a very high level of agreement. it has been said on many occasions that we are more likely to criticise and sanction smaller states, such as myanmar, than large states where economic interests are involved. we have a problem here, a dilemma. we should be frank about it and not talk about it. the european union has a credibility problem, a problem of double standards. we must deal with this subject in the present situation, where there are cartoons, where there is the alleged clash of cultures, etc. many of the points raised in this report are expressly approved. i would like to draw attention to a debate which we shall be having in this house shortly, and which will deal with a similar subject, namely the fundamental rights agency. many of the issues that concern us here today are addressed in the european agency for fundamental rights. i would like to make my colleagues aware that we are using this fundamental rights agency to improve the protection of human rights within the member states of the european union, but also as a kind of early warning system as regards our neighbouring countries and the relationship of human rights there. we have a unique opportunity here to improve european human rights policy. parliament will be deciding on this very soon, and i ask you all to support this.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the opening of the frontiers between the member states of the european communities and the four freedoms of the european union have created one of the freest societies in the world in europe. but freedom is nothing without security. the security of the new external frontiers which are being created is therefore of particular importance: the eastern frontiers, the frontiers in the balkans, but also the mediterranean frontier, which has its own particular and serious problems. these borders must be as secure as possible, and this requires the use of the most advanced technologies. on the other hand, they must be as flexible as possible so as not to unnecessarily impede trade and people in the border region. two things are necessary: firstly, we need integrated border management, integrated administration between customs and border police, which unfortunately is not always a given, but also integrated administration with the neighbouring countries. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. secondly, we are creating a border crossing card - the beautiful word "border crossing authorization" sounds extremely long and bureaucratic in german. we must introduce a border pass for people who live on the border, for people who have to cross the border frequently. only if we do these two things will we be able to ensure that the people living in these new border regions are not put at unnecessary disadvantage. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the so-called small border traffic is a mosaic stone in the large framework of external border protection. on the one hand, we secure the eu's external borders against illegal border crossings and the frequent and increasingly frequent side effects of these crossings, such as drug trafficking, human trafficking, human smuggling, prostitution and other forms of organised crime. on the other hand, we can also make life easier for those who live on opposite sides of the external borders but who are neighbours. it makes sense to secure the borders as much as possible against unwanted entry. but it is equally important to make it easier for people to live together at the borders, because we want - and this has been said many times before - not to be a fortress europe, but a community that lives in friendship with its neighbours. i therefore think that the rapporteur's proposal to amend the commission proposal to the effect that no new rules are introduced for existing internal european borders is correct. we believe that by then the member states will have adopted the schengen acquis, sis ii will be functioning successfully and we will no longer need such supplementary arrangements within europe. the present report by mr brejc is a good example of successful cooperation within the european parliament across group lines and a prime example of successful cooperation with the council in the framework of codecision. we have all succeeded here in creating meaningful and practical solutions for the everyday life of our fellow citizens and their neighbours. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs very warmly for this. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner piebalgs, i would like to thank you for your report. the european parliament will today - and we can expect you, commissioner, to do so - by a large majority call on the commission to submit a legislative proposal for heating and cooling with renewable energies. we have deliberately chosen the very rarely used instrument of legislative owninitiative reporting, which requires a qualified majority. we chose it to increase the weight of our initiative considerably. the unanimous adoption of our report with few reservations in the committee shows that a broad, cross-party call is being made to the commission to finally take action. i say this because the presentation of the commission's communication of may 2004 on the share of renewable energy in the eu would have made it necessary for the commission to act. the communication clearly stated that the forecast failure to achieve the target of doubling the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption by 2010 is mainly due to the poor market penetration of renewable heating and cooling technologies. at present, renewable energy sources - solar thermal, biomass and geothermal - account for about 10% of the heat produced. this is far less than half of the potential to be exploited in the medium to long term. experts estimate that by 2020, at least 25% of heating and cooling needs could be met by renewable energy sources. but they will only be produced from renewable energy sources if the framework conditions change. however, the financial subsidies currently granted in at least some member states have only led to stop-and-go developments through budgetary dependence, not to a truly continuous expansion. it is necessary to achieve a broad market penetration through a european framework directive. it is not sensible to provide for a european system of subsidies. we didn't. the type of support should be left to the member states. it is crucial that they be promoted and that all the barriers to development be removed. the administrative obstacles must be removed. there must be transparent rules of jurisdiction and clear and expedited authorisation procedures. the report calls on the commission to submit a proposal for a directive requiring member states to adopt legislative measures for heating and cooling from renewable energy sources. they should also draw up action plans for the expansion. the measures should be geared to effective national targets and should at least double by 2020 across the eu. commissioner, many in the european union are waiting for the commission to act. these are people who care about the environment, about the climate. these are many small and mediumsized enterprises which have a great potential for employment and which want to contribute to it, particularly in the field of heat production from the sun, geothermal energy and biomass. we have noted with pleasure that the biomass action plan announced the introduction of a directive. i was shocked to read a preliminary draft of the green paper on energy supply, which is being circulated in the corridors of brussels. nowhere does it mention the need for new activities in the heat sector. overall, renewable energies are an incredible shadow in this draft green paper. commissioner piebalgs, i hope you can allay the concerns i had after reading this draft green paper. and i hope that you will show the commitment to efficiency and renewable energy that we have come to expect from you here. i hope you will announce today that the commission will be presenting a proposal for a directive on renewable heating and cooling this year. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. energy security has been the mega-theme of the last weeks and months. to remedy this, we need several things. but i think we also need to make renewable heating a mega-theme. why would you do that? the potential is particularly great. the industry association in this area in the country i know best - germany - says that within ten years we can increase the share of renewable energy in new installations from eight to eighty per cent. we have not yet increased the share of energy consumption tenfold, but we have increased the share of new plants. that's not greenpeace, that's an industry association. renewable heating is also cheap compared to other energy sources such as solar thermal and photovoltaic; the price ratio is often 1 to 45. so we have been least supportive of what could be most accomplished, so we have to change something here. i also believe that this is not just a national issue, but a european issue, because the reason why renewable heating and cooling is not yet on the agenda is not because the technology is so complicated in general. we need higher quantities, we need a critical mass, so that the plants become cheaper for the end consumer. we can of course achieve this critical mass more easily at pan-european level than if each country worked on its own. i do not see support for the rothe report as a contradiction to my position and that of my party on nuclear energy. i think we need both renewable energy and nuclear energy. the false contrast must be removed. it must also be removed from the green paper, and that is why i also support what was said on the green paper. we need a concrete proposal from the commission as soon as possible and i thank mr piebalgs for announcing this concrete proposal for 2006. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have discussed very often in this house that we are faced with challenges in the energy field. we have discussed the burning time of resources, the natural demand, which is limited, but also the additional demand generated by large emerging newly industrialized nations. since january we have had the debate on dependence on individual suppliers, and we felt that there was a need for action. so it is right that we also ask ourselves how we can unlock new additional capacity in the field of heating and cooling. that is right, that is important, and i am also grateful that many of the amendments have been accepted and incorporated. i am a little concerned about one thing, namely that the right objective - that we must save, that we must develop new additional and renewable sources of energy - narrows our view and makes us believe that this is the only way that is right, that is reasonable and that is the way to salvation. i am concerned about ways of giving the impression that this is all that is needed and that all problems will be solved. i am firmly convinced that on the contrary, those colleagues who say that this is an additional possibility that we must take advantage of are right, but it will not prevent us from giving other answers, for example to the question 'how do we deal with nuclear energy?' or 'how do we deal with making the fossil fuels we have cleaner too?' i also have some reservations about the method we are going to use or how we are going to come to new regulations in the future. because it raises the question of whether we are right if we think that the only way to solve political problems is to invent new rules or pass new laws here and then sit back and think that this will solve all the problems. governmental imposition of new policies is not the answer. we heard from the commissioner this morning that 42 directives have been adopted in the energy sector alone, 22 of them in the energy efficiency sector alone! and yet we are dissatisfied and say we are not getting enough. long story short: the way forward must be to promote new technologies, to develop standards and indicators, to promote benchmarks, so that those who ultimately decide whether to go down new paths have the opportunity to compare and also to see the opportunity and the personal benefit. the aim of the european union is to achieve a high level of employment by means of a high level of employment, and to achieve this by means of a high level of employment. the commission has already done so.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today we have reached the final stage with the most important legislative project of the european union, alongside the constitution for europe, but we are not breathless. i could easily describe the efforts and paperwork of the past few months. but that would take hours. i shall therefore confine myself to a few basic remarks. these will not please everyone. but they are important to me, mr president. in europe, services must be as free as goods and money. the commission's proposal to introduce a directive on services is therefore welcome. unfortunately, this draft has failed to the extent that it has given the impression that it is intended to play the interests of the 15 'old' member states against those of the 10 'new' member states which joined in may 2004. i put old and new in quotation marks, because in our community of states all members have the same rights and obligations, regardless of the length of membership. the european union is serving the well-being of 470 million citizens equally, not shareholder value or the market mechanisms of the liberalisation sharks. i am very much concerned that we put people at the centre of policy and legislation. the workers and their families are at the centre, not the big companies and their markets. we must also think of smaller businesses, such as the craft sector, which must not be left behind. the commission's draft therefore required a thorough revision by the european parliament. we have made a good deal of progress in this regard, despite all the ideological divisions. i am confident that we can take the final, decisive steps when the plenary votes. the end result should be a directive without much red tape. it is to serve the working people on whose shoulders europe's competitiveness rests. this directive must respect the specificities of the member states and avoid the risk of a downward spiral in terms of working and wage conditions, quality, consumer protection and the environment. so we must first of all break with the country of origin principle in its devastating form. i suggested a simple solution. a service provider legally established in one member state may offer its services in any other country of the union. however, the rules and laws of the country of destination apply to the execution of an order. it is as simple as it is in the experience of people: with a german driving licence i can drive in england, but i cannot drive on the right. this is the way to establish the free movement of services and ensure fair competition. secondly, i have proposed that we should only allow free movement of commercial services which are marketable. all others must be excluded from the directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals. we must also be careful not to let the wider field of social security interfere. we are protecting the self-government of the municipalities and the will of the citizens to take care of their own affairs, from water to kindergarten. the european parliament can adopt the services directive with the necessary corrections to the commission's original draft. we worked hard and we turned the original design from scratch. at the same time, we prevented a job placement program for lawyers that smaller companies couldn't afford anyway. in my view, even more clarity and simplicity would have done good for this complex legislative project. but a project of this complexity also requires the power of compromise. i have the impression that the commission appreciates the constructive work of parliament and does not stick to the old word for word version which has caused an outcry in the member states of the union. the mixed choir of trade unions, craft unions, local authorities and all the associations concerned has had a positive effect. we're at a delicate point now. we can pass a law that does not put the commission or the council on our backs. we have thus achieved the necessary free movement of services in the european union. at the same time, a major step towards a social europe would have been achieved. the rights of workers are thus safeguarded. quality and the environment are protected. we in parliament, on behalf of the 470 million people in our community, could be proud of such an outcome. i would like to thank all my colleagues once again for the good cooperation which has been very constructive in all the groups. i think that this afternoon, tonight and tomorrow, in the last talks that are still to come, we will find the right solutions which will enable us to achieve a large majority in this parliament and will ensure that both the commission and the council are forced to follow the path which the european parliament has now prepared. (applause from the centre and the right)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen! our group welcomes the demonstration because it shows that the european parliament is powerful and that the people of europe are finally taking note of this. i have my doubts, however, whether the content is still relevant, because it is a demonstration against something that is no longer on the table. but the demonstration itself is a positive thing. the lisbon european council in march 2000 sought to strengthen the competitiveness of the european union. he noted that europe was not fully exploiting its potential in one of the most important economic sectors, the services sector. since 1958, the freedom to provide services has been one of the four freedoms enshrined in the treaty by the founding fathers of the european union. however, it is still the stepchild, unlike the movement of goods, capital and freedom of movement. it is the stepchild because the member states have been least willing to implement the treaty fully in this area and have left it to the court of justice to make rules on the basis of individual decisions. the services directive is intended to change this. it is the centrepiece of the lisbon strategy. it will increase the competitiveness of european service providers, help create jobs in this sector and increase choice for consumers and commercial customers. the directive is, however, first and foremost a political decision, a decision for the clear implementation of the treaty. it is also a test case for the commission, for the member states and it shows how serious we are here in parliament about our declarations on the lisbon strategy. the commission's proposal was ambitious. he was questionable in many ways, he shot in ways that were beyond the mark. it has been the subject of criticism - legitimate criticism, but also much unjustified criticism. the so-called bolkestein directive has been used to express uneasiness about the consequences of globalisation, eu enlargement, increased competitive pressure and general uneasiness about economic realities. (applause from the centre) there have also been misconceptions in this parliament. they have been shown to be attempts to prevent the directive altogether or to increase the ability of member states to create barriers to the internal market. the epp-ed group has made substantial improvements to the commission's proposal and i would like to thank our rapporteur, malcolm harbour, and all those in our group, but also in the other groups, and the rapporteur, mrs gebhardt, for the work done here. our group has almost completely rewritten this directive, and the text before us today is the result of that work. this required the very willingness to compromise that we have shown. we want a broad agreement on this directive. but we don't want to compromise at any cost. we want substantial improvements and simplifications in the crossborder establishment and provision of services. we do not want a one-to-one application of the case law of the european court of justice with all its uncertainties and individual circumstances. we want more legal certainty for businesses and member state authorities, we want more cooperation between member states to combat illegal temporary agency work and false selfemployment. but above all we want a directive which, by means of clear and fair rules, finally creates an internal market for services. a single market in which all service providers, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and all consumers can effectively participate. a directive which actually increases our international competitiveness, which ensures the rapid integration of the new member states into the internal market, a directive which enables us to exploit all the potential for growth and employment, a directive which is in line with the principles of the social market economy. we hope that the european council will reach a political agreement at the spring summit on the basis of our vote. the points which are supported by a large majority in the vote must be included. we can then adopt the most important legislative project of the lisbon strategy this year - perhaps even in the first half of the year, under your presidency, mr president of the council. every day lost means less competitiveness, less internal market and therefore less employment and less growth. we must show the people of the european union that we take their concerns and fears seriously. but we must also give them the leadership so that they can have hope and confidence again, so that the european project as a whole has a future. we must defend this european union as our common project and lead it into the future! (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to begin by thanking our colleague, evelyne gebhardt, who has had a difficult few weeks, but i hope that we will finally have a successful conclusion on thursday. i thank malcolm harbour, who has had perhaps even tougher weeks, and i wish him just as successful a graduation. i would also like to thank my colleague, anne van lancker, who has contributed to our work in the most difficult of circumstances. this directive is rightly the most controversial and controversial draft in recent years. the question is nothing more and nothing less than: 'what kind of model of society do we want in europe? other the answer to that question is given these days. for us european social democrats, one thing is clear: every economic and technical advance - that has been the success of the second half of the 20th century - has been linked to higher incomes, greater social security, greater environmental rights, greater consumer protection. that's what we mean by our social model. frits bolkestein's goal was to create growth on the assumption that there is less income, less social security, less environmental standards and less consumer protection. that is the very point at which we are ending today. bolkestein is no more. that's the first good news in this discussion. (applause from the centre) the second point we must put at the heart of our discussions is that europe cannot be divided. the epp group and our group have both made it clear: the attempt to split the bolkestein directive has been defeated. because the philosophy of bolkestein was that he wanted those who have lower wages, those who have lower standards, to have free access to the market, and where there are high wages and high standards, to be corrected downwards. it was an attempt to play the new countries against the old. the old europe against the new europe! we can show in parliament that this attempt has failed too! in my group, the old and new delegations, as well as the epp group, are working together to solve this problem. this is also a positive message from this day. (applause from the centre) and there is a third message, about which we should have no illusions: many have tried to use this directive on services to promote their interests in the design of the european internal market on the basis of a purely liberal model of thinking. i am quite sure that mr bolkestein wanted it to be as i have described it. i had the impression that charlie mccreevy wanted it for a while, but in light of the real power relations he's getting in writing on thursday, he has an insight. we have therefore heard with great interest that you, mr barroso and mr mccreevy, intend to base your further action on the results of the european parliament's deliberations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for a services directive based on the assumption that free access to the market is guaranteed, but that the service must be provided under the conditions of the country in which it is to be provided. this means that the social rights acquired in the member states, the wage rights acquired in the member states, the environmental rights acquired and the consumer rights acquired in the member states are preserved, that they are the basis of the provision of services. that's exactly what we've achieved. we have, so to speak, steered bolkestein in the right direction, and thus we have repelled the attack of those who wanted to do the opposite. this means, in plain language: whoever wants to change the european social model, whoever wants to destroy it, will meet - i say this on behalf of my group - with the energetic resistance of the european socialists. and the positive thing is that it is obviously also meeting with the energetic opposition of a large part of the christian-social movement in europe. that is also something we are happy to note here today. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) you are hearing those who are voting against, but minorities in the epp are usually very vocal, mr langen, we know that! but there is an institutional message behind what we are discussing here today and what we decide on thursday. the institutional message has reached mr bartenstein and mr barroso. they have understood - and i stress this - that it is good that they have understood that whatever they try to do in the european union to make fundamental decisions that set the course, they cannot do without the european parliament. the council has failed to present us with a commission which we do not want. the council will also fail with a financial perspective which is unreasonable. the council has had to take note that it was the european parliament which decided on a sensible, balanced chemicals policy. it was the european parliament that put the enlargement debate in a reasonable rather than a hasty frame. and this time it is the european parliament that is showing the other two institutions that it is possible to do what the late president of the federal republic, johannes rau, called for in almost every speech in my country, namely that in this deregulated world there must be a protecting power for the little people. in the face of global competition, multinational companies can compete, but in this competition for what we call the european social model, the ordinary citizens of europe - the workers in the ports, the workers in the factories, the truck drivers on their trucks, the employees at the post office or the railway, the small craftsmen in their factories and the nurses in the hospital - need protection. they do not have shareholder value on their side, they need someone to protect their rights in a deregulated europe, and that is the european parliament today - hopefully on thursday - in a very broad way.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to make three points: rarely has a european legislative initiative so polarized european societies. i am all the more pleased that rapporteur evelyne gebhardt has succeeded in defusing the commission's draft. however, this - and this brings me to the third point - is detrimental to the clarity and legal certainty of this framework directive. that is mainly because of the situation. the commission's proposal is opaque and difficult to understand, the exact opposite of better regulation. i think that needs to be said clearly. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is undeniable that we need a european framework directive on services. there are many problems in crossborder services which should not be solved by the court of justice as in the past, but by the european legislator, the parliament and the council. however, they are threatening to go back to court with this motion. there are alternatives which are clear and simple and which fully meet the purpose of cutting red tape for crossborder services. our proposal, which has been supported by the rapporteur for a long time, consists essentially of two parts: firstly, the clear limitation of this directive to commercial services, taking into account the existing legislation in this field. the so-called public service - and i am referring specifically to services of general interest and services of general economic interest - should be covered and dealt with separately in a framework directive. they are not covered by this directive. instead of this clear limitation, we now have a catalogue of individual exceptions. there are a few missing: education is still lacking, social services are not yet settled, nor is the construction of social housing. some services are completely exempt. other services, such as the major network services, are only partially exempted. all of this creates a patchwork of individual regulations that make it difficult to keep track of. there is a lack of transparency and legal certainty. and legal certainty was the topic that everyone was talking about today. the small and mediumsized enterprises need legal certainty above all. otherwise, there will be no investment, and the consumer will not buy. the second is article 16, the controversial question of the principle of the country of origin. here too, there would have been a simple and clear alternative: opening up market access for home-country services to the whole of the eu, but with the clear requirement that local laws and standards be respected for the provision of services locally. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the application of the principle of the free movement of goods, which would allow the free movement of goods within the community. but that also raises some unanswered questions. this also leads to a lack of legal clarity and legal certainty. the court of justice shall have the final say on this proposal. we cannot support this draft directive. it does not create confidence in european legislation and parliament is weakening itself with this directive. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union and this house in particular are in the midst of a very crucial week for our credibility. the european parliament, the european political community, we are called upon to take up our responsibilities and to live up to them. we are constantly saying that we want to reduce mass unemployment. so the only way we have credibility is if we do something for the people who don't have jobs. we can do this now! this week we are voting on the services directive, the implementation of which could create 600 000 new jobs for europe if it is adopted here in the version of my committee on industry or the relevant committee on the internal market. the compromise had taken up the justified criticism of the commission's original draft, but at the same time it also ensured the dynamisation of the eu services market. my opinion was adopted by only six votes against in the committee on industry. but what is now on the table as a compromise, what has been negotiated between the two major groups, is a sign of disregard for the painstaking work done by the specialised committees. it is, after all, such a small common denominator that it was not worth the effort of the last few years. this compromise is a blow to the principle of the single market, to which we owe our prosperity and integration. it is also a blow to the new member states, which have been virtually excluded from the compromise negotiations. the vote on the services directive gives us the opportunity to contribute to the lisbon strategy at eu level. we know that the member states are struggling to finally do what they have promised, and it would be a sign of spiritual poverty for this european parliament if we did not send a clear signal for more jobs. unimpressed by this, unions continue to spread untruth and panic. today we expect 30,000 well-organized trade unionists to prevent the creation of 600,000 new jobs. here some are striving for their possession. we now have the opportunity to make a clear commitment to strengthening the site. let's use it.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. just a few keywords in two minutes. if you follow the public debate, you might get the impression that this directive is reinventing the freedom to provide services. it is a law. the problem is that many countries have not complied with this right in force, but have built up barriers and harassment to prevent it from progressing. the only thing that is really needed is to eliminate this protectionism in the form of harassment and to have the appropriate legal instrument in place with this directive. europe's political and economic convergence in the services market, which accounts for about 70% of value added, is beneficial for all. for the big global players and shareholder value - and here i am taking up what president barroso and mr watson have said - it is not decisive. they do not need the directive because they have branches everywhere from which they can offer their services. it is, however, crucial for small and mediumsized enterprises. it also offers benefits to the people, more voting rights and freedoms, but it also offers benefits above all to the workers, because it brings more employment, and employment and more jobs are the best social policy. now, in some cases, a commissioner who can no longer resist is used to cast spells, and all kinds of fancy is built up: market liberals, market radicals and neoliberals. this is all going nowhere. the decisive text is the one which contains the decisive progress in its foundations. i too would have liked to have had a little more, that is, less derogation, with the votes in the legal affairs committee, which i represent, and in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. but the first thing that is crucial to me is that there is no deterioration of the present situation. secondly, there is certainly progress, but it may not be enough. thirdly, no one is prevented from taking the next steps later when the time is right. perhaps this will be sooner than we think.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the lies used to justify neoliberal policies are always the same. it would create jobs, it would promote growth - we have heard that many times today. in fact, the neoliberal restructuring of europe over the past 15 years has done just the opposite. each new round of liberalization has destroyed hundreds of thousands of jobs and increased poverty. every cut in workers' rights has reduced purchasing power and thus stifled growth. the bolkestein directive is a major project of those who want capitalism to be unleashed. if it becomes a reality, it will be the breakthrough to a europe in which the logic of the market and profit rules unrestrictedly, in which quality and environmental standards are leveled down and the downward spiral in wages and social security would be accelerated in an intolerable way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the principle of the country of origin has not really been overcome - this was also clearly heard in the contrast of the speeches - but it is left to the interpretation of the european court of justice. the corporate lobby could live with that, if we remember how this court has ruled in the past. we do not want a europe of the bolkestein directive. we do not want a europe which uses the concept of equal opportunities and freedom to provide services to create the best conditions for the companies and to increase their profits at the expense of workers and consumers. we do not want a europe in which basic services of the basic needs of life are left to the free play of capitalist market forces. the privatization frenzy must be stopped and taken back. the resistance to this neoliberal, brachial project must continue. the fact that a compromise was reached is due to this protest, and that is why i believe that this cannot be all that happened. the fight against the directive must be continued until it is finally adopted ... (the president shall not take the floor)
mr de villiers, i should like to point out that we had a problem with the timing. you should have one-and-a-half minutes, when only one minute was allotted. that was a mistake and we cannot clarify where it came from. however, when i give someone the floor i always state how much time is allowed. i would appreciate, in future, that if there is a discrepancy, you point it out immediately. i will now allow you one minute of speaking time as it is impossible to speak coherently in the remaining 30 seconds.
i have to say, madam president, i must interrupt the harmony that is being played out here a little and remind you that the commission has done a disservice by introducing the european union's bolkestein directive. it has not even adopted the legacy excuse, because it did not withdraw this directive last march. bolkestein divides europe into rich and poor, east and west. bolkestein is a design with few winners and many losers. it is not a step forward but a step backwards in the integration of europe. we need a services directive with a win-win situation, a services directive which combines freedom to provide services with the recognition of the social rights of each member state and the protection of workers. the country of origin principle, on the other hand, is based on a downward spiral of social rights in europe. many people from all over europe, from france, italy, poland, germany, are on the streets of strasbourg today to protest against this. they are not protesting against the eu, but they are protesting against the neoliberal drift of europe, against the division of europe. we already have laws in the eu which have incorporated the principle of 'equal pay for equal work at the same place of work' into legislation in the context of crossborder freedom to provide services. this is a win-win situation in the legislature. and that principle is now to be undermined. i hope you will allow me to make a few comments. if parliament deletes articles 24 and 25 from the commission's draft, will you make a new proposal? that, mr bolkestein, no: that, mr mccreevy - perhaps the speaker was quite good - means that you have to undermine the posting directive in retrospect! not with us, commissioner! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
the debate is closed and will resume at 9 p.m. we now come to question time, and i thank the representative of the council presidency, mr winkler, for the flexibility that we were allowed to overstep a little.
president-in-office of the council. professor landsbergis, i can only answer this question with a clear 'yes': of course the european union shows solidarity with a member state. there is no doubt about that, and there can be no other considerations that would take away from this solidarity.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council regularly recalls in its dialogue with russia that the baltic states, as members of the european union, have of course fulfilled the copenhagen criteria and that therefore the treatment of the russian minority is in line with the relevant norms of international law, in particular with the recommendations of the council of europe and the osce, and that the path of naturalisation to full citizenship is open to the russian minority. the council therefore emphasises very clearly that the rights of minorities are respected and that the european union is also making a real effort to combat all forms of discrimination in the member states. such discrimination is not in accordance with the relevant rules and the copenhagen criteria. of course, all the member states of the european union are obliged to respect these rules.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would simply like to ask whether the council is aware that the problems of the baltic states have arisen because the baltic states were occupied for decades in violation of international law under the hitler-stalin pact. today, they form the border between russia and the european union. does the council consider that the recognition of this border can be made conditional on any conditions, or is russia not rather obliged to recognise this border as a precondition for good and fruitful relations with the european union?
president-in-office of the council. let me assure the honourable member that we are engaged in constructive negotiations. it is in our interests; it is in the interests of the council as much as it is in the interests of the european parliament that these negotiations are brought to a fruitful conclusion. in order to be credible, the european union as a whole must act swiftly and constructively. the council is prepared to act as swiftly and as constructively as possible. i can assure you that already, at the traditional meeting of the commission with the members of the austrian government on 19 january, it was agreed between the president of the commission and the president-in-office of the council, mr schüssel, that the commission proposals should be submitted as soon as possible and that the council would negotiate as swiftly as possible and in good faith. according to the agreement between the three institutions, we are hoping for and working towards a conclusion of the negotiations on the interinstitutional agreement in april. i cannot be more precise. however, that is a credible goal which we hope to achieve. i can assure the honourable member that we are working very hard to achieve that.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can answer mr rack's question by pointing out that, according to the presidency's work programme, the trilogues are being prepared by the astv ii. that's all going on right now. i can assure you, because i know from personal experience, that this is being worked on very hard. but you will understand that i cannot comment at this stage on the precise state of the necessary clarifications between the council and the commission - wherever the dossier is at this stage. that would be prejudicial to the negotiations. i would like to reiterate once again, and i would like to emphasize this, that we will of course do everything in the council's own interest - but also in the european parliament's - to ensure that these negotiations are started, continued and brought to a successful conclusion as quickly as possible. we owe this to the citizens of europe. the credibility of the european union will also depend on how quickly and how well we reach an agreement on this issue.
the president of the council. mr president, madam president of the council, i have already said this and i repeat it because this is the position taken by the council: we are standing on the basis of the agreement reached in december. this is the framework in which we are moving and the resulting priorities will now be set out in the negotiations. of course we are committed to the objectives you have mentioned and will continue to be so.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the two questions i was asked: security of energy supply has been one of the main concerns of european energy policy for many years, alongside competitiveness and sustainability - these are the three relevant pillars. this is also the case for the new energy policy for europe which is now being drawn up. the gas dispute, the price dispute of the last weeks and months, has made it clear that the concerns of neighbouring countries and international partners must also be taken into account. the european union has close relations with energy producers such as russia and opec, as well as with major consumers such as china and india. in this context i would also like to mention international agreements such as the energy charter treaty and the energy community of south-east europe. the main aspects of energy security are the diversification of energy sources, the promotion of domestic energy sources, in particular renewable energy sources, and energy efficiency. the high importance of investment in both infrastructure and exploration is also worth highlighting. the transeuropean energy networks are also part of both aspects. the european union has therefore adopted a wealth of instruments in different fields. in particular, the council directive 67/2004 ec of 26 april 2004 on measures to safeguard natural gas supplies, the directive on the diversification of energy sources, the directive on the production of electricity from renewable energy sources of 2001, with the objective of generating 22% of electricity from renewable energy sources in the community by 2010, and the directive on the promotion of the use of biofuels or other renewable fuels of 2003 are relevant for security of supply. the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services, adopted in december 2005, is also worth mentioning and is expected to be adopted in the coming months. the sixth framework programme for research and development, and in particular the 'intelligent energy for europe' programme, which aims, among other things, to promote new and renewable energy sources at local and regional level and in developing countries, should also be mentioned. the council also expresses the importance it attaches to renewable energy sources in non-legislative terms. in their contribution to the spring council in march 2005, the energy ministers committed themselves to the priority of a strategy for renewable energy sources beyond 2010. energy policy and in particular energy security will also be on the agenda and certainly in the forefront of the next council meeting in the spring. two other priorities for the presidency are the handling of the biomass action plan and the announced energy efficiency action plan. in its contribution to the international action plan of the international conference on renewable energy in bonn in june 2004, the council noted that eu energy policy should aim at significantly increasing the use of renewable energy sources and that increased use of renewable energy, improvements in energy efficiency and sustainable use of energy as complementary policy areas also contribute to security of supply. at its meeting on 29 november 2004, the council adopted conclusions on renewable energy, which stress the importance of increasing the competitiveness of renewable energy, inter alia, by reducing production costs. all these instruments and measures provide a solid basis for the short, medium and long-term security of energy supply in the european union, which has also proved its worth in the solidarity approach to the consequences of last year's weather disasters.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a member of parliament from munich whose mother is from styria, i am happy to follow austria's progressive policy on biomass. my question is: what are you doing to bring this very progressive policy even more strongly into the council of the european union, and how do you assess the importance of the issue of biomass, not only in the field of fuels but also in the field of heating?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this directive is not a glorification of the principle of better regulation. on the contrary! the commissioner is responsible for the anger, indeed the indignation, of almost all the social groups in europe. i would also like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report. we're not here to shut you down. the single market is not an end in itself. that is why the three major exceptions are necessary: the posting directive, the temporary agency directive, which must remain exempt as long as the european directive is on hold in the council, and especially the vocational qualifications directive, which we all adopted in this house. an efficient internal market, free from barriers and discrimination, with a fair framework, is a win for europe for suppliers, service providers, consumers and workers. but that is precisely what we have not done with this directive. i would like to thank the european trade union confederation for working with us to protect workers without falling into national narrow-mindedness. the solution is not to refuse, but to create.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after discussions with the employees and managers of two dozen small and mediumsized enterprises in hesse alone, as well as with trade union and employer representatives, i honestly saw no sign of an acceptable service directive. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal to liberalize the public service, nor has it yet decided to privatise public enterprises. competition law and state aid law are also not restricted. the fear of social and wage dumping is no longer justified. the new principle of the free movement of services allows states in which services are provided to insist on compliance with and control of their national rules. this applies to the maintenance of public security and order, as well as to the protection of the environment and health. the committee on employment and social affairs has given important impetus to the process of enhanced cooperation. we attach great importance to ensuring that safety and health at work are not threatened and that existing regulations in collective agreements are respected. the posting of workers directive has priority, which will allow the construction industry and other sensitive sectors to be protected in the member states; the commission has also proposed that the minimum wage be maintained. to prevent companies from registering only one po box address in other eu member states, a consumer-friendly scheme has been introduced: a branch is only recognised if it has adequate infrastructure and a permanent presence. many of the slogans of today's demonstration are not up to date. public protest is justified, it is credible if the content is correct. the public, the commission and the council are waiting for the decision of our house. the importance of the european parliament is evident everywhere. the inter-group compromise is the way to go. the epp-ed group has consistently pursued its basic position of giving new impetus to the single market lisbon slogan and of maintaining social standards.
the president of the council. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! the controversy which we have seen in recent weeks over the cartoons which have appeared in a danish newspaper is undoubtedly a very regrettable development, because it touches on something which the member states of the european union and the european union itself have been striving for for many years, namely, a trusting, constructive coexistence between the different religious communities in our countries. the confidence and goodwill which have been expressed in all the member states and also by the institutions of the european union in recent years now seem to be shaken. we have seen violent demonstrations, which have also claimed lives. representations of the european union and other member states' institutions in various countries were attacked and damaged. threats were made. boycott measures were imposed. all of this is a development that we deeply regret and that must make us ask ourselves: what went wrong here? what can be done here to prevent such events in the future? various principles of our coexistence are at stake and must be discussed with this question. firstly, there is a consensus that we must condemn all forms of violence, all violent reactions by militant groups. the council presidency has done this clearly from the outset. we also expect the responsible governments to be aware of their responsibility and accountability, also in the sense of international law, and to take appropriate protective measures. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment. the presidency has been carrying out its political responsibilities since the beginning of these events. on 30 january the council gave denmark and sweden and all the other countries concerned its full assurance of solidarity. the council's foreign ministers also stressed the importance of freedom of the press and of expression, which are a cornerstone of the values we defend in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the subject. but at the same time, the exercise of this right to freedom of expression, like the exercise of any right, involves a high degree of responsibility, responsibility of the individual, responsibility of the institutions. the european union, the united nations and other organisations, such as the organisation of the islamic conference in particular, have made early attempts to clarify in statements the principles we must follow in this conflict. the joint statement of the secretary-general of the united nations, the secretary-general of the organisation of the islamic conference and the high representative for the common foreign and security policy of 7 february was of great importance in this context. it emphasizes the responsible handling of religious beliefs and freedom of expression, while at the same time holding the press accountable. this responsibility of the press is the responsibility of the press itself. it is not possible in our societies - and it is not a bad thing - for governments to dictate to independent media what they can and cannot say, within the limits set by the legal systems. these legal systems must be in accordance with international standards, in particular the european convention on human rights. violent attacks were also rejected and condemned in the statement of 7 february i mentioned and a call for dialogue was made. on 8 february, the president of the council, foreign minister plassnik, telephoned turkey's deputy prime minister and foreign minister, gül. it was very conscious that we included turkey in the efforts to reassure, because turkey can play a very active and constructive role in promoting dialogue between europe and the muslim world. we have therefore also invited the next meeting of the high level group of the alliance of civilizations, which is under the auspices of the united nations, to its next meeting in austria. also on 8 february, the president of the european council, chancellor schüssel, issued a statement expressing his dismay at the depictions on the homepage of a muslim emigrant organisation in antwerp and the call for a holocaust cartoon competition in the iranian newspaper hamschahri. we must also make it clear that such initiatives and calls are to be condemned and rejected. as you know, the high representative for the common foreign and security policy, javier solana, is currently in the middle east. the possibilities for a targeted dialogue between europe and the muslim world were discussed at a meeting with the secretary-general of the organisation of the islamic conference, mr ekmeleddin ihsanoglu, on 13 february. the secretary-general and high representative will continue this discussion with the secretary-general of the arab league and with representatives of the countries of saudi arabia, egypt, jordan, the palestinian authority and israel. we, the council, and the individual member states, will promote dialogue with the islamic world and continue along this path of dialogue between civilizations, between religious communities. the finnish foreign minister, mr tuomioja, has already announced that dialogue activities will be a key concern of the finnish presidency. we will continue to take steps as the presidency to help calm the situation. the next meeting of foreign ministers on 27 and 28 february will focus on the possibilities for enhanced eu dialogue activities with the islamic world. the current crisis calls for leadership from the elected representatives of the european union. this leadership cannot and should not consist of the state wanting to impose rules of conduct on the media. i have already stressed the importance of freedom of expression and of the press for our values, for the values of the european union. we do not want to jeopardize this freedom from censorship under any circumstances. it was fought for too long and too hard. this freedom - which the european court of human rights has made clear in many fundamental decisions - also includes the admission of new, controversial ideas and any discussion. it also includes the freedom to make mistakes and to criticize mistakes with all the force of a word. as the european court of justice said in a landmark decision 20 years ago, freedom of expression also includes the right to shock and irritate. the court has also said that there must of course be limits to this freedom of expression, and that is where it offends the feelings of others, especially the religious feelings of others. the political leadership of the european union must now demonstrate that we are credibly communicating that freedom of expression and respect for each other's culture and religion are not contradictory but complementary and compatible. the answer to the present crisis, in our view, is not less freedom of expression but rather a credible commitment by a democratically pluralistic europe to the dialogue of cultures and civilizations. we must convey to the muslim communities around the world that we want to continue to develop trusting relations with them. we must convey to our muslim fellow citizens within the european union that this union is a good place where they can feel respected and comfortable just as members of other religions and where they have the opportunity to participate in democratic processes. in taking up this challenge, it will be important for us to build on the trust that has been built up in recent years in all member states between religious communities, and between political leaders and religious communities. i would like to draw attention to some of the activities carried out in my own country, austria, because the responsibility of the member states is also very much needed here, and the council, which speaks for itself and for the european union as a whole, must of course also rely on the activities and activities of the individual member states. as far as austria is concerned, one of the most important talks that austrian leaders have had in recent days in the search for a de-escalation of the situation was that on 7 february between foreign minister plassnik and the president of the islamic community in austria, anas schakfeh. the importance of peaceful coexistence between the different religious communities in our countries was emphasised, and it was explained that the focus now was on coming together and making our ongoing dialogue, which has proven to be effective in practice, visible to the outside world. this is a culture of dialogue that we have built up over the years in austria, but also in all the other member states, and which now has to prove itself in a crisis. in recent months, very important events have taken place in austria, such as a major conference on 'islam in a pluralistic society' attended by a great many religious and political leaders, the president of afghanistan, the president of iraq, the former president of iran, and high-ranking clerics from all religious communities. two days ago the chancellor invited all the leaders of the major recognized religious communities in austria to a meeting. on that occasion, everyone agreed that only peaceful coexistence, peaceful - and critical - confrontation with one another, was the right way to prevent developments such as those we have seen in recent weeks. it is therefore a matter of continuing this dialogue, but it is also a matter of defending our values, such as the right to freedom of expression. (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. mr president, the publication of cartoons in danish and other european newspapers and the reactions to this have revealed sensitive and fundamental issues. the cartoons have aggrieved many muslims all over the world. we must respect these sensitivities and the expression of them through peaceful protest, which is a fundamental right in any open society. i share the views expressed by prime minister rasmussen, where he made clear that his government respects islam as one of the world’s major religions and that it has no intention of insulting muslims and does not support activities in this sense. today, i should like personally to emphasise my deep respect for islamic civilisation and the contribution it has made and continues to make to europe. the commission’s concern is not with the peaceful response of the majority to the cartoons. it is with the violent reactions of a minority; reactions which have been disowned by many muslims. therefore the commission condemns, in the strongest possible terms, the violence perpetrated against our office in gaza, and against the missions of the member states, in particular those of denmark. it is ironic that the aim of these missions is to bring real benefits to the lives of the people of their host countries. a trade boycott is not an appropriate way of addressing the issue, either: it would hurt the economic interests of all parties and could damage the growing trading links between the european union and the countries concerned. trade, and the greater interconnections it brings, is a means to promote mutual understanding. let us be clear: a boycott of danish goods is by definition a boycott of european goods. (applause) i have spoken with the prime minister of denmark and expressed the solidarity of the commission. i want here today to send my solidarity to the people of denmark as well; a people who rightly enjoy the reputation of being amongst the most open and tolerant not just in europe, but in the world. i welcome here today their representatives in the form of a delegation from the danish parliament. (applause) i have also spoken with the president-in-office of the council, chancellor schüssel. the commission will continue to work with the austrian presidency and all parties to resolve the problem peacefully and efficiently. this issue raises wider themes. our european society is based on respect for the individual person’s life and freedom, equality of rights between men and women, freedom of speech, and a clear distinction between politics and religion. our point of departure is that as human beings we are free, independent, equal and responsible. we must safeguard these principles. freedom of speech is part of europe’s values and traditions. let me be clear: freedom of speech is not negotiable. like all freedoms, its preservation depends on responsible use by individuals. (applause)we all condemn all forms of prejudice and discrimination wherever and whenever they are expressed. but governments or other public authorities do not prescribe or authorise the opinions expressed by individuals. conversely, the opinions expressed by individuals engage these individuals, and only them. they do not engage a country, a people, a religion and we should not allow others to pretend that they do. (applause)freedom of speech and freedom of the press is the basis not only of the possibility to publish an opinion or a cartoon, but also to criticise it. freedom of speech cuts both ways. freedom of speech has limits as well. these must be respected. they are defined and enforced by the law and legal systems of the member states of the european union. it is self-evidently unacceptable to go outside the law that is decided by democratic institutions. freedom of religion is not negotiable either. just as europe respects freedom of speech, so it must – and does – respect freedom of religion. religious freedom is a fundamental right of individuals and communities; it entails respect for the integrity of all religious convictions and all ways in which they are exercised. muslims are and must be able to practise their faith in the same way as the adherents of other religions and convictions practise theirs. the european union and its member states have for a long time promoted dialogue between different communities both within the european union and with neighbouring muslim countries, and in other parts of the world. it is through a vigorous but peaceful dialogue under the protection of freedom of expression that mutual understanding can be deepened and mutual respect can be built. i am fostering and will continue to foster dialogue between cultures and with religions. this dialogue must be based on tolerance, not prejudice, and on freedom of expression and religion and the values connected with them. violence is the enemy of dialogue. we must not allow the minority of extremists to win. let the best of our values win against the worst of prejudices. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! the epp-ed group is following the debate on the cartoons with great concern. but one thing is clear to us, and that is what we are guided by. we will defend the freedom of the press, and we will protect the feelings of believers and the symbols that are important to them, regardless of their religion. we will defend human rights and the achievements of the enlightenment, and we will protect the right to belief, to difference and to recognition. we can only do this simultaneously if there is self-control and discretion on all sides. that is why we are asking today, above all, the media representatives in europe, in iran, in other islamic countries. we ask those who wish to elevate the debate on the cartoons to a political debate on principles to do so. we will not be getting anywhere if we respond to polemics with polemics, to aggression with aggression, to insensitivity with insensitivity. we want an order which defends freedom of expression as one of the highest human rights and which is at the same time sensitive to its limits, which are found in the freedom and dignity of others. it must be an order that shows respect for the beliefs and religious feelings of others, and at the same time allows for peaceful and constructive dialogue about what divides us at first sight or even in the deep core of our being, our values, our experiences and our feelings. the result is that violence as a means of agitation or outrage over other opinions must never be accepted. we condemn all those who have organized the violent reactions in various countries of the world. this was not a spontaneous reaction - and it took months to get here - but was partly organized by regimes which do not rely on freedom of expression but oppress people, and we must make this very clear. (applause from the centre) we are against all forms of violence. we are not only against violence against people, but also against objects, flags and buildings, and we condemn it in the strongest terms. the point is that we have to be a little more specific. it is not enough to invoke dialogue between cultures. we must be more concrete. i would like to make two very concrete proposals: firstly, because we have to start with young people, we should set up a commission of textbook experts to study textbooks in europe and the islamic world to see what words and values are being spread. such a commission should be jointly sponsored by the european union and the organisation of islamic conference, most effectively with the participation of the un secretary-general in the selection of the experts. we, or the islamic world, have been upset by some of the cartoons in a european newspaper and in some other newspapers. this is just a documentation of hundreds, if not thousands, of caricatures, which also caricaturise our values, our christian values, and our beliefs in the islamic world. this must stop with us, but also in the countries of the islamic world! (applause from the centre) secondly, we were in barcelona with other colleagues at the euro-mediterranean conference. we should use the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly to bring together representatives of elected politicians and civil society from europe and our partner countries in the framework of the barcelona process for regular talks and targeted consultations. the euro-mediterranean assembly could thus be a crucial meeting place for the dialogue of cultures. let me make a personal point: i have visited 16 arab and islamic countries between 1999 and this year, 2006. i remember talking to a very committed, credible high representative of the clergy in saudi arabia. it was all in all a wonderful conversation. this personality then asked me how muslims are treated in europe. i replied that we often wish people were better integrated, but they could live their faith. i then asked the counter question: is it true that according to the law in saudi arabia, a muslim woman, a muslim man, if he or she wants to become a christian, is punishable by death according to the law? i have not received an answer to that. tolerance is important. but it's not just going one way, it's going both ways. tolerance, reconciliation, understanding must be based on truth, and we stand for that. i welcome very much what the president of the commission has said. the european union is a great example of the kind of cooperation that can be achieved by the european union. in this sense we are naturally in solidarity with denmark and we should send a signal of tolerance and understanding from this debate, but on the basis of reciprocity and acceptance of the truth. only then will we be able to move towards a good future of dialogue between cultures. (applause from the right and from the centre)
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in this council statement on iran's confrontation with the international community, i would like to comment on the following issues. the european union has a duty to help the people of iran, and the european union has a duty to help the people of iran. the nuclear issue: a solution to the iranian nuclear issue is a key concern of the international community, which has serious concerns about the peaceful nature of the iranian nuclear programme. the european union has made every effort over the past few years to find a negotiated solution and to press iran to take confidence-building measures on its nuclear programme. iran has recently moved in the wrong direction through unilateral steps, most recently the resumption of uranium enrichment activities at natanz and the suspension of the application of the iaea additional protocol. the iaea board of governors has sent a clear signal to iran by adopting the resolution of 4 february, which brings the matter to the attention of the united nations security council. the broad majority with which the resolution was adopted is proof that europe's deep concern about iran's nuclear programme is shared by the entire international community of states. the european union is fully aware of the seriousness of the situation in the middle east and the need to strengthen the international community's efforts to achieve a peaceful settlement of the conflict. the cause of this conflict is that iran has not done enough to create the necessary confidence in the peaceful nature of its nuclear programme. on the contrary, iran has not declared a substantial part of its very extensive nuclear program to the iaea for the past 18 years, and to this day, the iaea is denying important information. this concerns in particular the extent of the development of uranium enrichment technology and the area of 'weaponisation', i.e. the militarisation of its nuclear programme. the eu's objective remains to reach a negotiated solution to the matter. however, this requires a sufficient level of cooperation and transparency on the part of iran, in particular towards the iaea, and urgently needed confidence-building measures, such as the suspension of sensitive nuclear activities by iran. the russian proposal to build a russian-iranian uranium enrichment capacity on russian soil as an alternative to enrichment in iran is an important contribution and is fully supported by the eu. the eu - i repeat this very clearly - remains committed to a diplomatic solution to the iranian nuclear issue, in which the iaea must play a central role. the involvement of the security council does not mean a reduction in the role of the iaea, but rather a strengthening of the authority of the iaea and the implementation of the measures required by the iaea board of governors' resolutions. the eu-iran relations: the eu remains deeply concerned about the human rights situation in iran. the situation is worsening and the iranian authorities are not taking any concrete steps to reform the law and reform official practices. despite repeated requests from the eu, iran has not renewed its commitment to resume the human rights dialogue, which is currently suspended. the european union will continue to raise its human rights concerns both directly with the iranian leadership and in public statements and in international fora. the european union and the entire international community have condemned the iranian president's statements on israel in the clearest and strongest terms. the attitude of iran towards the middle east is a matter of serious concern. iran continues to support palestinian groups designated by the eu as terrorist organisations. we note with concern the fact that the iranian president recently met with some leaders of such groups in syria and call on iran to end such contacts. we also call on iran to join the international consensus on the need for a two-state solution to the middle east conflict. the repeated attempts by the iranian president to deny the crimes of the holocaust and his calls for the 'elimination' of the state of israel must be strongly rejected. such statements are totally unacceptable. they are also in complete contradiction to the efforts of many political and religious leaders, who, in the wake of the events of the last few days, are actively promoting a dialogue between cultures based on mutual respect. the eu's relations with iran will depend on progress on all issues: the nuclear issue and other concerns related to weapons of mass destruction, human rights, the fight against terrorism and the attitude towards the middle east. the options for eu action will continue to be closely examined and weighed in the light of the iranian side's actions and statements. the attacks on the institutions of the european union - this was clearly underlined in the debate here - are completely unjustifiable and totally unacceptable. the presidency of the european union has condemned these attacks and called on iran to comply with its obligations under the 1961 vienna convention on diplomatic relations. in line with those commitments, it also reminded iran that the responsibility under international law to ensure that those commitments are respected lies with the state. (applause from the centre)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, it is clear that iran needs to take visible and credible steps back in order to regain the confidence of the international community. for the past few months the nuclear file has been at the centre of eu concerns with iran, and rightly so. the region does not need further tension and prospects of nuclear escalation. despite the persistent efforts for dialogue of the so-called eu-3 and of other international partners, iran has not engaged in a convincing way. that is why, as a result of the vote of the international atomic energy agency board in vienna on 4 february, iran’s nuclear dossier is now to be reported to the united nations security council. the iranian reaction was the decision to step up its enrichment programme and to cease implementing the additional protocol. that is unacceptable news, although iran expected to continue cooperating with the iaea on the basis of the non-proliferation treaty. a substantial majority of the international community, including russia and china, now stand firmly behind the reporting of iran to the security council, agreeing that iran needs to return to a suspension of its enrichment activities. there must be no mistake in tehran about the resolve of the international community. at the same time the door still remains open for a negotiated settlement through diplomatic efforts, provided that iran takes the necessary steps. iran’s tactic of trying to divide the international community proved unsuccessful on this occasion, as it did last autumn. the russian proposal to enrich uranium outside of iran is still on the table and needs to be explored fully. if iran returns to a suspension of its enrichment activities and accepts the russian proposal, the security council track may not prove necessary. the prospects depend very much on the will of tehran to compromise and engage with the international community, and to do so swiftly. we shall not speculate on further steps, but if the situation continues to deteriorate, we will need to consider options for further action through the united nations. the united nations security council will revert to the issue in the light of mr elbaradei’s report and the next meeting of the iaea board starting on 6 march. conversely, if things evolve in the right direction, more could be done through community actions. if and when the situation calls for that, we must be able to re-engage iran through a series of eu and community instruments. we are ready to engage constructively, and iran knows that. the nuclear issue is not a dispute between iran and europe or between iran and the united states, but between iran and the larger international community. nor is it a dispute about iran’s right under the non-proliferation treaty. it is about iran’s failure to build the necessary confidence in the exclusively peaceful nature of its nuclear programme. indeed, iran has the right to develop research, production and the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. for that, without discrimination, we need objective guarantees on the peaceful nature of iran’s nuclear programme. i should like to say a few words about president ahmadinejad’s statements on issues that affect regional stability and international relations. his unacceptable remarks regarding israel and the holocaust sparked global outrage. we feel that those statements are a profound offence to all of us. it is also totally unacceptable – as the presidency has just said – that iran continues to support terrorist organisations in the middle east. with regard to human rights, you may recall that on 12 december the general affairs and external relations council found the situation grave enough to adopt conclusions on the state of eu-iran human rights dialogue. stating what is for me a fundamental requirement vis-à-vis iran, the european union reaffirmed that greater respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in iran is essential if there is to be progress in eu-iran relations. i should like to emphasise some points of major concern. there have been an increasing number of public executions and death sentences – juvenile executions in particular. iran executed more child offenders in 2005 than in any recent year. there are restrictions on freedom of expression, with widespread censorship of the internet and the press – even the former speaker of parliament and presidential candidate, mr karroubi, could not get authorisation to broadcast his new television channel from dubai. on the plight of human rights defenders, we are very much concerned about the fate of prisoners of conscience, such as mr akbar ganji and his lawyer mr abdolfattah soltani. the list of human rights concerns in iran remains worryingly long. the commission looks forward to a continued exchange with parliament regarding the matter of iran. the situation is critical, but the long-term objective continues to be, despite everything, that deeper and broader relations should be established with a country that is an important regional and international player. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the european parliament's resolution on the situation in iran, adopted on 4 february, calls on the international community to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in iran is not further worsened. in my own government, chancellor merkel and foreign minister steinmeier are also pursuing this course with determination. the iranian leadership must understand that it cannot divide the international community, and certainly not the individual eu institutions. the european parliament will make this clear in its resolution today. we recognize the fundamental right of each member of the non-proliferation treaty to the peaceful civilian use of nuclear energy. but the many red lines that iran has crossed have eroded confidence in the regime's pure intentions. the reduction in cooperation with the iaea, the threat by the iranian president to withdraw from the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, the postponement of the talks with russia scheduled for this thursday and, above all, the resumption of uranium enrichment are all not conducive to building confidence and to defusing the situation. the more so the need to continue to act with unity and determination towards iran. the european union has a duty to help the people of iran, and we must do so in a spirit of solidarity. the natural desire for peace in our people is not well served by those who believe that our unconditional will to peace alone leads to conversion and enlightenment on the other side. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement. in my view, the end of diplomatic efforts has not yet been reached. we offer constructive cooperation. we call on iran to return to cooperation with the iaea before the issue is discussed in the un security council. we also support russia's offer to enrich uranium for civilian purposes outside iran. we wonder why iran wants to enrich itself. the country does not operate a single .... (the president cut the speaker off)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i'd be surprised if it wasn't. i would also ask you to consider what is more important: that we have time for a sensible debate or that colleagues here are cursing when the vote is taken. i should have liked to hear mr gahler's explanations to the end because they were very interesting. the question he raised is one of the most pressing ones we have to deal with at the moment. how do we deal with a regime that is clearly pushing the envelope? what are our answers as a community of nations? i shall try to add to these questions some of my group's points of view. the remarks of the iranian president need not be commented on in this house. a head of state who denies the holocaust, who questions israel's right to exist, is not a partner for us in dialogue. all of the values that mr ahmadinejad represents are the opposite of the values that we represent, and i would be happy to have a value debate with these people. we did that this morning, and it was good, it was serious and it was thoughtful. we should have this debate, at a calm and confident level, and see if there are other partners for dialogue in the region besides mr ahmadinejad. before we philosophize about the end of our options, we should think about the beginning of our possibilities. there are not enough moderate states in the region, willing to engage in dialogue, with whom we can cooperate, who may not share our values one on one, but who also have no interest whatsoever in iran becoming a nuclear power in the region. these countries exist and they are, in my view, the appropriate dialogue partners for the european union. in this context, of course, the cartoon controversy not only comes at the worst possible time, but is actually extremely counterproductive. the european union is not a party to the gatt, but a party to the gatt. that is why the resolution of this cartoon controversy is also a priority for the resolution of the problems in the whole region. so i advise you not to equate "iran" with "islam". an aggressive head of state is one thing. but nothing he does represents the vast majority of peace-loving muslims in the world with whom we have to work. i think that the iaea's proposal that enrichment should be carried out generally, and for all countries, under the control of the international atomic energy agency is correct. we must support this proposal. i also think it is quite justified to recall that the nuclear disarmament debate must not be reduced to this region. we need them worldwide! in this connection, i should like to make the following observation: if states that already possess nuclear weapons are treated differently from states that are on their way to acquire them, if, despite the absence of weapons of mass destruction, preventive strikes are carried out against a country, then the regime encourages the acquisition of nuclear weapons as quickly and as illegally as possible, because those who possess them are not attacked. this is a logic we must also discuss, triggered by a completely wrong preventive strike, which has been carried out in the past in this region and which we have fought against massively. i think the logic behind that was very, very dangerous. so we have to abandon this strategy of thinking from the end. because the strategy of thinking from the end leads to a militarization of thought. we must step by step strengthen our diplomatic options. it was a great success for the eu3 to bring china and russia to the same table and to make it clear to iran that the community of states cannot be divided. let's talk about diplomatic successes instead of philosophizing about military options. we should do everything in the international community's power to make it clear to iran that if it does not return to the negotiating table by 6 march, the way to the un security council is pre-programmed. however, the next steps are to be decided there and not in any government headquarters. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have to take note that we are in a situation of escalation. we have to realize that the ahmadinejad strategy is a new strategy. he wants to break with the west, he wants to build an islamic region and take the lead there. we are seeing a mobilization of national pride in iran. what is the european response? i expect us to keep our ratios up and do clear analysis. mr schulz, i agree with you when you say that we must abandon the 'strategy of thinking from the end', that we need new dialogue partners, that we must be active in order to put diplomacy first. but i also say, given the difficult negotiations of the last few days, that the military option is being discussed, and i ask those who have it in mind to think it through. i expect you to define how you intend to deal with a military escalation and whether your handling of it will enable us to achieve our goal of preventing nuclear weapons in iran and guaranteeing the safe existence of israel. i don't think that's the case. i therefore appeal once again to our arguments - which we were unable to negotiate - to refrain from military games of thought, to be taken into account in the vote today and to put diplomacy in the foreground in the aftermath - despite all the hate speech by ahmadinejad. the question of whether sanctions should be imposed, what sanctions are useful and whether world peace is in danger is not for mr chirac to answer when he suddenly threatens france with the use of nuclear weapons. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission is able to do so. this crucial question of world peace is for the united nations to decide and no one else, and we should not prejudge it. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the joint motion for a resolution is very problematic. paragraphs 7 and 4 support the eu-3's escalatory position. the eu-3 is making a major contribution to the escalation this time. the statement by jacques chirac that he is prepared to use nuclear weapons against so-called terrorist states is a scandal. the historical comparison of angela merkel is also totally unacceptable. it is not only iran's nuclear programme that is dangerous. nuclear weapons in the eu, france, the uk and the us are also to be dismantled under the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. the use of nuclear energy is itself problematic. the summoning of iran to the un security council is the first step towards a military attack on iran. any military option must be ruled out. the german spd chairman matthias platzeck is absolutely right on this point. obviously, the iraq war is the blueprint for the conflict with iran. the unspeakable statements of the iranian president against israel and the violation of human rights in iran must not be used as a pretext for a war policy against iran.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to thank you for your reply. we must not allow ourselves to be destroyed by the fundamentalists and those who misuse the opportunities of freedom in europe. from the cartoon controversy to the drastic and unacceptable statements made by the iranian president, these things must not cause the moderates in all regions and all countries of the world to lose the ability to talk to each other. i think that's the crucial starting point, and also to make sure in iran that such a president cannot prevail, but that the many well-educated young people who want to live sensibly have a perspective. we must therefore continue this dialogue in order to rely on internal reform processes here too. this also means that the escalators must not be climbed too quickly. you can't take a step backwards on an escalator, and that's why it has to be carefully considered. i am therefore glad that we can have a dialogue with the iranian foreign minister, for example, next monday in the committee on foreign affairs, which will be part of such a debate. the international community must act decisively when it comes to a breach of the law, whether the breach is in the context of freedom of expression or when it comes to ensuring that iran abides by the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and the rules agreed upon. if this is not done in a reasonable way by 6 march, it must also be clear to iran that the world community stands together and that discussions can then take place in the un security council. that is why we must ensure that in such a dialogue we create a more peaceful world and that we do not engage ourselves in measures which make it impossible to use this escalator in a way that serves peace, and that we do not fall into an automatic situation from which there is no escape.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. as this debate has shown, the solution of the iranian nuclear problem remains the central concern of the international community and the european union. in fact, there are legitimate doubts about the peacefulness of this nuclear programme. but i would like to stress once again - and this has been mentioned by many speakers here - that the european union remains committed to a diplomatic solution to the iranian nuclear issue within the framework of multilateralism, in particular within the framework of the international atomic energy agency. that's important to stress. we believe that the russian proposal to build a russian-iranian uranium enrichment capacity on russian soil would be a good alternative to enrichment in iran. this solution is fully supported by the european union. it was suggested that austria should take initiatives. i am speaking here, of course, as the representative of the council, and as such i am expressing a position which the council as a whole is taking, regardless of any national positions. but it is also important - and this has been raised by many speakers, and i am grateful for this - that the issue of the nuclear programme is not the only issue that is important and essential in our relationship with iran and that needs to be resolved if we want to have better relations with this government, with this president of this country. this is the human rights issue. i would remind you that since 1975 iran has been a party to the two un conventions on civil and political rights and economic and social rights without reservations. there is therefore a clear obligation under international law for iran to fulfil the obligations contained in these important treaty instruments. finally, i would like to confirm that i too share the view expressed by mr brok and other speakers that it is of course necessary to continue the dialogue with those forces in iran who are in favour of peaceful coexistence and respect for the commitments. we want to continue this dialogue. we are open to dialogue. however, and we must be very clear, we must not allow this dialogue to be abused. so we have to be very careful about who we have this dialogue with. i also think that the question of promoting civil society in iran is of particular importance. (applause from the centre)
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is essential that there should not be any divisions in the international community, and of course in our europe, about how to deal with iran. iran has gone far beyond its limits in its uranium enrichment activities, in its systematic violations of the dignity of women, men and above all children, and in its support for organizations which we rightly call terrorist. however, there is still room for dialogue and for a diplomatic solution. as has been said by many - and i am reminded of president schulz - iran is not islam, and therefore a regional dialogue for stability and peace is needed, involving first and foremost iran, but also all the other actors in the region who are interested in a serious dialogue with the international community. iran is not even president ahmadinejad. many people have said that, and mr běnová was the last to mention it. it is clear that europe can take political action in dialogue with civil society and with the moderate forces in iran who are fighting for freedom, who want to reason freely and choose their own destiny, and who do not rely on the words of their president inciting hatred and violence. so what are the options for the future? i believe that the security council must today prove its credibility and its authority. those who have doubted the role of the security council in this house are indirectly doubting the role we all attribute to it. the security council is the seat of international legitimacy. no one should fear that the security council will have to face a broad and thorough debate on the iranian crisis, because that is precisely where this issue must be brought. we have called on the security council many times. the time has come to give the security council the opportunity to play its proper role. mr president, europe is faced with the choice between working for peace and stability in the region, as i believe we must, or pretending that nothing is happening, at the risk of finding ourselves in the region as an aggressive nuclear power. europe has a great opportunity to exercise diplomacy and firmness. before we even remotely talk about any non-peaceful option, i think it is better to emphasize democracy, firmness and diplomacy as a means of resolving conflicts and potential violence which we must avoid at all costs. there is no conflict, but there is a diversity in the approach to rights, values and democracy. if we surround iran with democracy and diplomacy, we can avert catastrophic consequences.
the debate was closed by the tabling of six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. the written declaration (article 142)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to protest that this motion for a resolution is only in english because all the other language versions have had to be stamped because of errors. in theory, you couldn't vote at all. i do not want to block the vote, the subject is important and we must vote, but i do not think that we can work in such a sloppy way here with so few resolutions on the agenda as today. (applause from the centre)
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. bosnia and herzegovina has undoubtedly made great progress towards the establishment of a multiethnic democracy in the 10 years since the dayton peace agreement, and we should welcome and rejoice in this. it seems to me essential that we, who all looked ten years ago - and i say this as an austrian who lives in the neighbourhood, so to speak - at the events, at the incredible atrocities, at the war and the suffering of the people, can now say with satisfaction that the likelihood of armed conflict has decreased. this is a great success for the international community, but above all for the european union. the opening of negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and bosnia and herzegovina is a testimony to the success achieved during this decade. an important example of this progress is the abolition of separate ministries of defence at the level of the entities republika srpska and the federation of bosnia and herzegovina at the end of 2005. all defence tasks and personnel have been transferred to a common ministry of defence at the national level, and this is undoubtedly a milestone in the development of this country. the european eufor mission althea is working closely with these new national structures and is continuing to push forward defence reform. there are other examples too, which show that the state as a whole and the state's own responsibility are making progress. i am referring to the introduction of a national vat on 1 january this year. the agreement on police reform, which is now in the process of being implemented, was undoubtedly a very important step forward in the reform process, and anyone who has observed and followed these negotiations knows how difficult it was and what internal ethnic resistance there was in this state. the overcoming of these difficulties is undoubtedly a great success, and one can only congratulate bosnia and herzegovina on this. the eu police mission in bosnia and herzegovina will play an important role in this reform process. it was only on 1 january this year that the eu police mission, eupm, was extended for a further two years after its original mandate expired. the mandate is to provide even more proactive support to the police aspects of the fight against organised crime, something which is important in our member states because we also naturally feel the effects of organised crime in our neighbourhood. eupm, eufor and the hr/eusr shall cooperate closely in this area to ensure coordinated, coherent and effective support to the executive authorities. in recent months there have also been efforts to reform the dayton constitution. it is true that the dayton constitution is repeatedly criticised as being too complicated, but we must not forget that it is the result of this constitution that - as i mentioned at the beginning - there is now peace in this country and there is no longer any danger of hostilities. the negotiations which began last year and continued at the beginning of this year have been postponed until further notice and the party leaders have not yet been able to reach agreement on an overall package, but there is progress and in the future we can expect that this progress will also lead to concrete results. i would also like to say here in particular that the progress achieved in the areas of human rights and the strengthening of the position of the president of the council of ministers gives cause for some optimism. this process of reform, including constitutional reform, is a process and not a one-off point event. we all have to be realistic. in an election year, in a democracy, some things are difficult to achieve, especially when it comes to deep reforms. in january, the council concluded that it welcomed the discussions on constitutional reform and the progress made so far. the key message of all these efforts, and also of the contribution of the international community and the european union, is that there must be more ownership of the institutions in bosnia and herzegovina, which is summed up in the slogan 'ownership'. another important issue that will concern us in 2006 is the future of the high representative and the presence of the international community in bosnia and herzegovina. there is no doubt that this state will need international help until further notice. the aim must be to replace the push of the international community embodied above all in the comprehensive powers, the so-called bonn powers, of the high representative with a pull from brussels. in the context of a transition process from the high representative's office in its current form to an eusr, the powers and possibilities for intervention of international actors should be reduced. this is exactly the same as the concept of ownership, the transfer of additional powers and responsibilities to the institutions of the state. this is also - and we should welcome it - the stated aim of the new high representative, christian schwarz-schilling, who took over from paddy ashdown at the end of january. he said that as high representative he wanted to play a more 'facilitating' role and promote the europeanisation of the country, rather than relying on the powers of the high representative, which he would have to put back further and further in order to continue the reform process. we therefore welcome the fact that mr schwarz-schilling has said that he will only use the powers of intervention in exceptional cases. the framework for bringing bosnia and herzegovina closer to european structures is the stabilisation and association process, as is the case for the other balkan countries. the opening of these negotiations, and thus of the negotiations on contractual relations with the european union, is an important step in the development of bosnia and herzegovina towards the european union. the first round of negotiations, co-chaired by the european commission and the bosnian chief negotiator davidovic, was successfully concluded on 25 january, and the further progress that will hopefully be made soon will of course also depend on how far this reform process can be taken. the austrian presidency's priority, the western balkans, was mentioned by the president of the federal republic today. the underlying reason and motive for this emphasis is to give these countries a european perspective, because this european perspective is the driving force behind the reforms that are needed in these countries and that we want and must promote. it is important that progress is made in these reforms in a wide range of areas. this applies to the fight against corruption, to the strengthening of public administration, to full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia - a particularly important point for all the countries of this region affected by this. and it applies to many other reform steps that are necessary to make bosnia and herzegovina and all the other states in the region modern, democratic states. what is the perspective? the eu-western balkans summit in thessaloniki in june 2003 led the european union to reaffirm its commitment to this european perspective for all the western balkan countries. this fundamental commitment to the future of these countries in the european union was reaffirmed and confirmed by the european council of june 2005. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of the internal market and will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of the internal market. the commission communication on the future shape of eu relations with the western balkans, presented at the end of january 2006 and very much welcomed by the council, outlines the steps to be taken beyond the thessaloniki agenda, and i am sure that commissioner rehn will report in detail on this. the upcoming informal eu-western balkans foreign ministers' meeting in salzburg on 10 and 11 march will reaffirm these objectives of the european union and seek agreement on how and by what means the eu can strengthen its engagement in the region. the meeting should provide a good opportunity to agree on concrete measures to promote stability, security and prosperity in the western balkans through the gradual integration of the region into european structures. the commission's communication, which i have just mentioned, will provide an important basis for this. i have already said how important this priority of the austrian presidency is, and i want to conclude with that. this 'high-level event' on the western balkans will, we hope, provide a further impetus to encourage these countries to continue reforms and integrate into european structures. mr president, we are confident about the future of bosnia and herzegovina and the european union can make a significant contribution here. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by warmly welcoming the focus of austria, as the presidency, on the western balkans. i very much look forward to working together with the presidency, the council and parliament to achieve the next important steps to bring the western balkans closer to the european union. bosnia and herzegovina is genuinely at a crossroads today. last november the country started to negotiate a stabilisation and association agreement with the european union. a new high representative/eu special representative, mr christian schwarz-schilling, has succeeded lord ashdown in sarajevo. mr schwarz-schilling will make less use of the executive powers and leave more tasks in the hands of bih politicians. we are now in an era of increasing bosnian ownership and responsibility. before i outline some recent developments and our policy goals, let me apologise in advance if i have to leave the house before the end of the debate today. i am scheduled to leave at 4 p.m. this afternoon with president barroso on a three-day round trip of six cities in the western balkans, ending in sarajevo on saturday. so i hope we will be finished by 4 p.m. bosnia and herzegovina is making its way through the stabilisation and association process. last november in sarajevo we officially opened the negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement. the first real negotiating round took place at the end of january 2006. it went very well and our bosnian partners had prepared themselves thoroughly. the commission’s working hypothesis is that negotiations will take about one year. however, meeting this target date will entail bosnia and herzegovina being able to respond to all the eu reform requirements. in this respect, it is essential for bosnia and herzegovina to fully cooperate with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. in order to avoid any misconceptions, let me make it clear that there is no short cut: full cooperation is a necessary condition to conclude a stabilisation and association agreement and to make progress in negotiations. it is also essential to implement the agreement on the restructuring of the police forces, to adopt and implement all necessary public broadcasting legislation and, not least, to ensure sufficient legislative and administrative capacity to implement the agreement. we thus have a very clear message: bosnia and herzegovina should seize the opportunity that it has at hand. for this, reforms need to continue with the utmost determination. it is fair to say that the international community has played an important role in supporting the reforms in the country. but credit is also due to the local authorities, which have been able to achieve significant progress in what, to say the least, is a rather complex environment. we hope that progress will continue and that local political ownership will increase further. we are ready to support this process fully. the international community will adapt its role to these evolving circumstances of more local ownership. the more the country is able to demonstrate maturity and political ownership, the less the international community will need to intervene. i met recently with the new hr/eusr, mr schwarz-schilling, who shares this view on a new role for the international community and the use of the bonn powers. the reform of the ‘dayton constitution’ is another important challenge before the bosnian political leaders. the country needs a constitution that ensures full compatibility with the european convention on human rights; allows effective decision-making and efficient governance; and makes the government structure less costly for ordinary citizens and taxpayers. in other words, it is necessary for the country to develop a democratic, functional and affordable multi-ethnic state in order better to serve all its citizens and to support the reforms that eu integration entails and necessitates. therefore, i welcome the recent efforts by the leading political parties and political leaders to find practical and workable solutions to these very important challenges. i encourage political leaders to continue their dialogue so as to achieve more ambitious results. we do not expect a constitutional revolution but rather an evolution. constitutional evolution has to be a consensus-driven process with the leaders of bosnia and herzegovina clearly in the driver’s seat. the international community can act as facilitator; we can offer encouragement and support; but the bosnian politicians must take the lead. the constitutional evolution is not as such a condition for concluding the negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement. but we need to underline that the european union clearly has a big stake in this process. in other words, bosnia and herzegovina needs to make sure that its constitutional provisions guarantee full and effective implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement and thus pave the way for the country’s road towards europe. i look forward to engaging with the european parliament again on a future occasion on the progress made in bosnia and herzegovina. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. more than ten years after dayton, bosnian politicians, above all, must ask themselves whether they have used all the possibilities to create a good future for the children of their country. please use your mandate responsibly. i would like to stress, as did the president-in-office, that a great deal has been achieved. there is a minister for the interior, a minister for defence, a common vat system, police reform, at least on paper, is on the way. contrary to popular belief in our countries, bosnia and herzegovina is not a place of crime. the rate of detection of criminal offences in bosnia and herzegovina is higher than the eu standard and the number of classical crimes is lower than in our country. we didn't invent it, it's a statistic. i think we should commend bosnia and herzegovina for this. the new high representative, mr schwarz-schilling, who is an intimate acquaintance of bosnia and herzegovina, will certainly be very understanding and active in supporting the local politicians and will refrain from any 'bonn powers' methods. the self-responsibility of which the president-in-office spoke will be more and more emphasized. but the commission, commissioner, must also support him. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. without own production, commissioner, the whole country cannot benefit from a free trade area. but it also means that the refugees can finally return to these lands, for example to the posavina, and repopulate the area and make the fertile soil available again. the bosnian politicians must also finally introduce institutional reforms that overcome the ethnic division and make the state functional and thus eligible for membership. cooperation with the hague tribunal is essential. there is progress, but until karadzic is in the hague, i cannot imagine that reconciliation can really be completed. the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement are proceeding well. we are delighted about this and the european parliament will be taking its delegation to banja luka this summer to discuss progress with colleagues. we wish the presidency and the commissioner every success in their support for bosnia and herzegovina.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we welcome the determination and continuity with which the european parliament is addressing the problem and concerns of the western balkans. that is an expression of wisdom and reliability. the council and the commission also stand by their statements. we heard it again today. however, as we have repeatedly stressed, the gradual integration of europe will depend first and foremost on progress in the individual countries. ten years after the dayton agreement, the current situation and the status of bosnia and herzegovina are crying out for change. we therefore welcome the fact that the newly appointed high representative, mr schwarz-schilling, considers his most important task to be to make his function obsolete. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. this has a lot to do with personal responsibility - both for the past and for the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but the eu must also be aware of this in its financial and structural decisions. what we do not want are bilateral agreements which will quickly impose the much needed constitutional change and administrative reform. this is a risk of a second dayton or now washington agreement, in which no local responsibility is assumed. on the road to europe we need a stronger civil society, which is currently too often confronted with hostility. we need to have a dialogue between the three ethnic groups on equal footing and non-discriminatory access to education, employment, housing. these objectives must ultimately be implemented by the people of bosnia and herzegovina themselves, but they need our support. this is what today's resolution is intended to do.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make it clear again why my group has taken the initiative of holding this debate today. the european union is also committed to the development of the internal market and the fight against fraud. we had a very serious situation in january of this year, when an american think tank tried to bring about a hair-pulling process, but the europeans were not present. this was the period after the end of paddy ashdown's mandate and before the beginning of black-schilling's mandate. we can't let this happen to us again. i am optimistic that with the black shell we will have a high commissioner who, in the interests of the people of bosnia and herzegovina, will take their own responsibility seriously and ensure that the political objective we have now also has a chance, namely ten years after dayton, ten years after a military operation by the european union, to ensure that ethnic separation is not pursued any further, but that we make possible a common future for bosnia and herzegovina.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. bosnia and herzegovina is characterised by very strong ethnic and religious criteria. the only way to achieve lasting peace is not to ignore these realities - they are strongly expressed in elections, for example - but to respect and integrate them in the wise sense that was also expressed today in the speech of the austrian president. we must be glad that the liberal dictatorship of lord ashdown, which has marginalized religious figures, for example, is over, and that we can expect a more sensitive approach from mr schwarz-schilling. we shall have to deal here with two main issues: the first is the process of constitutional reform, which we have already mentioned. we have an unbalanced federation. this can't work in the long run. we have the bosnian-croat federation, which is dominated by the bosniaks, the republika srpska of the serbs, we have the croats of herzegovina, who are a world apart, but whoever is completely outside, these are the bosnian croats, who can hardly find themselves in this reality. that is why this structure, even if it is overbureaucratized by the cantons, will not work. the need for a constitutional reform in the sense of a symmetrical federation of all three ethnic groups is urgent, while at the same time reducing the cantons and the bureaucratic superstructures that rob the country of efficiency. the second point which is important - i have already touched on it - concerns the religious communities which are very important there. we talked a lot about islam. when bosnia became austrian, austria created a public-law body for the muslims, which, incidentally, still exists in austria today. it is the only eu country in which there is a representative muslim organization accepted by muslims. it has to do with bosnia. the reis-ul-ulema in bosnia and herzegovina and other institutions are also important as a manifestation of european islam, and since the christian religious communities in that country also have such personalities as bishop komarica, they should be actively involved in the peace process and also accepted as legal entities.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i agree with the previous speakers. the hope that the presidential elections will lead to a new beginning in the country, in the democratic development, is diminishing every day. president lukashenko invents new repressive measures daily against the opposition and the people of the country who claim the freedom of dissenters. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the countries of central and eastern europe. we must not be discouraged by the fact that democratic commitment in the country is being stifled in its infancy, because the will of the people for freedom is there, and we know how difficult such commitment is, especially in the conditions of this linked election. so we have to be clear that not only is this election day not only the deadline, but that the whole thing is a process. we should be watching closely how many small activities are taking place in belarus that express the will of the people for freedom and democracy. we have a really serious democratic potential in this country and that is why i would also like to point out once again that the activities in the commission and the council to support this potential are totally inadequate. it's too slow, too inflexible, not efficient! i ask the council to do its homework and to adapt the rules on external aid to this specific situation as quickly as possible, to end the discussions and to develop an effective instrument, otherwise we will be partly to blame for this difficult situation.
before we begin the question period, i have one more announcement to make. i would like to inform you that written declaration no 69/2005 on combating racism in football, see minutes, has received the signatures of the majority of members of parliament.
- i'm not sure. you know that this was not a motion for a resolution, but it is of course an important signal that parliament is sending with this declaration.
the next item is question time (b6-0002/2006). we shall deal with the following questions to the commission. question no 33 by mr schwab, represented by mr seeber (h-0005/06) subject: compatibility of car tolls with eu law following the introduction of truck tolls in germany, there are plans to introduce a car toll soon. since this would lead to a greater burden on german motorists, the introduction would have to be accompanied by a compensatory reduction in the car tax. does the commission consider that the introduction of the car toll in germany, subject to the simultaneous decision to reduce the car tax, is compatible with the prohibition of discrimination under article 12 of the treaty?
member of the commission. it has not been part of this agreement in the council that it is possible to transfer quotas between member states. it is possible within a member state. for example, within poland or any other country it is possible to take a quota from one factory to another, but there is no cross-border quota transfer in the reform proposal.
member of the commission. to guarantee the price for sugar protocol countries, prices have always moved completely in line with eu institutional sugar prices, so there has never been a guarantee for a fixed price for the sugar protocol countries. however, these sugar protocol countries will benefit from a lower cut in the prices until the 2008-2009 production year. this will give these countries a period of three years to adapt to the new price support arrangements within the european union. during 2006-2007 and 2007-2008, the reference price for raw sugar will decrease by only 5%, while the producers of sugar beet in the european union will see a decrease of 20% the first year, and 27.5% the following year. the reason for this decrease of only 5% is due to the fact that refiners and therefore the acp suppliers will be exempted from the restructuring levy. they do not have to pay the levy at all. however, refiners will lose the benefit of the refining aid which will be abolished in the context of the reform. it is quite clear that the different conditions for the acp countries after the introduction of a reform within the european union has been discussed at length before finalising the political agreement in the council. it is quite clear and it has been from the very beginning that it was important to secure the period of the last six months of 2006, which is outside the next financial period. therefore the decision was taken to allocate eur 40 million specifically for the period from 1 july until the end of this year. for the period within the next financial perspective it has been quite clear that the commission’s wish to allocate a significantly higher budget than the aforementioned eur 40 million will be dependent on the ongoing discussions on the financial perspective for the next period. but it is a significantly higher amount than that mentioned. i can only say that within the commission proposal, a budget of eur 190 million a year was in the budget and i therefore hope that there will be an understanding also in this parliament of the need to help these acp countries, specifically in a transitional period.
member of the commission. mrs kinnock, i am quite sure that, as you are so well informed about this issue and it is not the first time that we have discussed it, you will know that we have been in very close contact with the sugar producing acp countries. not all of those countries produce sugar. it has been very important for us to try to help them, perhaps not to continue to produce sugar if they could not be competitive, but then to try to do something else. therefore, i was very happy that at the commission meeting last week it was possible to get through a communication on bioethanol. afterwards, mr michel, who is responsible for the development money, took part in a press conference with me on this because bioethanol might be an alternative for those countries that want to stop producing sugar. on the figures, this is an ongoing discussion. but it has been important for the commission to send a clear signal that we care about the possibilities for these sugar-producing acp countries. i am quite sure that when you are in contact with them, they will also recognise that we have had numerous meetings with these countries. for example, we have been able to have direct contact during council meetings on two occasions. it has been acknowledged that this is really an issue that is on our minds.
questions which have not been dealt with for reasons of time will be answered in writing (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.20 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. agriculture is dependent on many factors which in the commercial economy are not always considered as risks. the commission has always been aware of the need to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not a mere instrument of a monetary policy, but rather a policy of a monetary policy which is based on the principle of the free movement of goods. but this has led to a distribution which is very much in favour of the growth companies and to the detriment of the smaller ones. the distribution of the payments was such that 80% of the funds went to 20% of the holdings. this has also led to a partial surplus in a region of the european union which is one of the largest food importing regions in the world, because this state intervention has had a kind of vacuum-cleaning effect. these surpluses were then dumped on the world market in billions of dollars, which then led to the destruction of regional markets in countries - especially the third world - by dumping with taxpayers' money. we have tried to put an end to this, at least in principle, after the reform, but we still have a situation where the distribution of funds is the same. we have situations where firms with a high level of rationalization receive 120 000 euros per worker per year, while the majority of firms do not receive a tenth of that. so if we are to consider whether we are going to enter into a new crisis management and risk management here, we must make a correction in the distribution of what we give here in state aid in favour of farmers' holdings. this is not about big and small businesses. this is a matter of the economic system, i.e. where workers are actually employed. we - and i as rapporteur - believe that of the options you have listed here, the first option must of course be considered in the context of natural disaster insurance, but this has always been the case, it should only be done on a more systematic basis. option 2, where there is or should be a risk fund on a reciprocal basis, is an interesting consideration, but here too what i said earlier should be made clear that the payments that farms have to make to these funds take into account both the volume of production and the efficiency of the farms, so that we do not, with a new system, again enter into an inequality at the expense of rural agriculture. it is also important that the firms themselves should be involved in these risk hedges, that there should be co-financing of the firms, that we should not slip into a state hedge, where we then replace one system with another, that is, what we have just abolished, reviving it with a new system, only under a different name. the normal risk must also be calculated and mitigated by the farmers, the farm managers themselves, largely because of their entrepreneurial skills. where we are particularly critical is with option 3. the question here is one of general support in the event of an income crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but we must not risk falling back into the old system of income protection through state intervention in the case of income crisis support. we have been very careful here, as you can see from the report. nevertheless, some groups have focused on this area in their amendments, saying at least that the possibility of safeguarding these measures and also the link with the wto must be examined. we are not going to replace the old intervention system, which was abolished by the reform.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the agricultural sector has been relatively well protected against risks by market regulation and price support. the agricultural reform has left much to the market, and that is the right thing to do. agriculture is in a special situation. climate change, animal diseases, natural disasters, global sectoral crises - there are many things that the individual farmer cannot foresee, let alone economically assess. but farms need planning certainty. more markets therefore also mean that the risk and crisis management of agriculture needs a stronger private sector component. the report makes some very positive suggestions - astonishingly many positive suggestions for a green rapporteur. it is a trend which, despite some imbalances, is absolutely welcome. producers, associations and private insurers are primarily called upon to offer innovative risk insurance concepts throughout europe. the european union and the state must back off. the public sector must limit itself to partial coverage of non-insurable risks such as natural disasters or animal diseases. we must therefore design reinsurance schemes and the european union must also provide a framework for aid that allows for private solutions as well as public cover for extreme risks. but we must also take into account that not everything and everyone can be insured. the earth's climate is shifting. this has agricultural geographical implications which we urgently need to study more scientifically. europe has a role to play here too. the result will also be a review of resettlement measures. there are regions which are repeatedly and increasingly affected by drought or floods; there's no reason to farm here. here too we must recognise the realities of exaggerated risk hedging, and hence also provide assistance for resettlement and structural change. this too is a political task for the european union!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's always good to be part of a big group, you have a lot of time. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. all the crises we have discussed, from fires to natural disasters, involve people and human activity. the bse crisis was not sent by god, but was caused by the feeding of cows to cows - completely against the common sense of good professional practice. we plant corn in arid areas or eucalyptus, so you can't be surprised if there are fires and drought damage. if we talk about liberalization, although my colleague has different ideas, it is not surprising that if we take it as a goal and not as a tool, many people's lives will be left behind and plunge into deep crises, including income crises. so we have to make sure that qualified market access is enforced in a reasonable way in the wto. i would point out that many small farms and organic farms have gained a higher-priced quality market through the freedom of genetic engineering. if we manage coexistence here in a sloppy way, it will become a trojan horse, and then these good markets, these quality markets, including the wine market, will be gone. then we're thrown into crises that we could have prevented, and we don't have to talk about safeguards. i am also speaking, madam commissioner, of the possibility of economic development in rural areas and the fact that we are now facing financial depletion in the area of the second pillar. it is not surprising then that many firms which have ventured into these higher-priced markets are unable to keep up with this trend and are then faced with closure. the general agricultural policy must therefore also play a preventive role. i am reminded that we are also reaching a point of no return in the fossil fuel sector, and that we must prepare agriculture for the fact that it will have to switch to other sources of energy and that it may also be able to make a profit from it. we can also do crisis prevention here, and i would like to see these prevention considerations play a part in the commission's legislative proposal, which is still in the brainstorming phase this year. i would like to say, mrs batzeli, that when i spoke of management responsibility, i did not want to simply blame the crisis on the incapacity of the farmers, but i wanted to see agriculture influence policy in the way i have just described, so that the crises would not occur in the first place and that a reasonable income situation for the farmers would be guaranteed in the future.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. in may 2005, the agriculture council invited the commission to work closely with all stakeholders to develop an eu action plan for sustainable forest management by mid-2006, which should specify the elements of the eu forest strategy. the committee on agriculture's own-initiative report on the eu forest strategy is an early step in the debate and is intended to continue and deepen the process we have initiated. the commission is of course entirely free to decide what our views and demands will ultimately be in the action plan, but given the good cooperation - and i would like to express my thanks for it - we do assume that we are on the same page on the main issues. the starting point for our own-initiative report was the council resolution on the eu forest strategy of 1998, which offers a wide range of possibilities, but without a concrete formulation of objectives and a coherent structure. in accordance with the different approaches, we have now identified a number of strategic elements in addition to general remarks. i should like to make a very brief comment on the most important points. firstly, there is no uniform legal basis for forestry activities at eu level. we would like to see an objective examination of this matter, despite the concerns of those concerned. secondly, there are different definitions of forest both internationally and in each of our 25 countries, and we therefore ask the commission to consider a european definition so that the european union's action in this field is transparent and comparable. thirdly, in order to improve coordination, communication and cooperation, we propose to strengthen existing structures such as the standing committee on forests. within the commission, in addition to horizontal coordination, the inter-service group set up must also improve the exchange of information between hierarchical levels. we believe that this vertical coordination should be carried out by a unit in the general secretariat. fourthly, europe's forests must be protected from forest fires and air pollution, but also from soil and water pollution. the illegal logging outside the union must be combated by appropriate coordinated international action, including with the help of the eu. fifth: forests can help us to reduce the greenhouse effect and global warming, but only if we make greater use of their diverse products. the union should therefore promote the use of environmentally friendly wood products and, in particular, take greater account of renewable energy from forests in its energy mix. sixthly, in order to promote the competitiveness of the sector and thus employment and income in rural areas, the following tasks should be better tackled at european level: firstly, the mobilisation of wood resources, the removal of obstacles to the use of wood, the overcoming of the structural disadvantages of forestry, and the diversification of the incomes of forest owners. seventhly, forest-related research and development also plays a major role in the context of the lisbon strategy. key research projects in the forestry sector should therefore also be included in the seventh framework programme for research. eighthly, european training programmes such as leonardo and erasmus should be used more than ever in the forestry sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. finally, what can the forestry sector contribute to lisbon and gothenburg? we believe that europe's forests are under-utilized, unlike other regions of the world, not only in terms of wood - we use only 60% of the renewable quantity - but also in terms of the services which are not yet marketable. we want the forestry sector in europe to become more competitive in this way. only a vital and competitive forestry sector can contribute to lisbon and gothenburg and thus to the well-being of europeans.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr kindermann, for his excellent report and to support him in all his demands. in times of empty budgets, many people shake their heads when they hear about new eu responsibilities and new eu expenditure. but the eu forest strategy and the development of an eu action plan for sustainable forest management is not about new areas of responsibility and expenditure. the forestry policy is not a community policy. but it is also undeniable that the influence of other policy areas such as environmental and agricultural policy on forests and forest management has been steadily growing. the forestry and timber industry is also being pushed to the limits of profitability by ever-increasing social demands and environmental standards. if these limits are exceeded, the operators will withdraw. we see the eu action plan as an opportunity to improve the framework conditions for forestry in the eu-25. i would like to mention two key areas: firstly, improving communication and coordination structures at eu level, and secondly, designating an organisational unit within the commission to be primarily responsible for implementing forest action plans and strategies. three things we don 't need: firstly, a european timber market regulation, secondly, more bureaucracy, and thirdly, i reject, especially in the present financial situation, eu aid for municipal or state forests. our central european forestry is characterized by its multifunctionality. we want social, environmental and economic sustainability in the european context to continue to be exemplary and european forestry to remain competitive.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i have to ask the epp-ed group very seriously whether or not it is in favour of the compromise it has made with us, because the 'no' to this motion was part of the compromise we had agreed. i do not accept that we negotiate for weeks and then this is not respected. (applause and restlessness)
the rapporteur. the commission is not i am sorry, but according to my documents, article 72 of amendment no 380 is missing, but certainly not motion no 297. this is about the removal of the right to work. article 72 was about something quite different.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it is reasonable to follow the rapporteur. it is possible that a committee secretariat may be wrong. i call for a vote on amendment no 297 now. this is very important to us.
the rapporteur. mr president, the list has been prepared by the secretariat in a very accurate manner and i see no error in the order of voting.
the rapporteur. the commission is not before we carried out this review with the epp-ed group, we had the legal service check very carefully whether this was in accordance with the rules of procedure of the european parliament. the relevant services of parliament have assured us that this is the case. that's why we brought it in like this. well, mrs. frassoni, we checked this out before. it seems clear that this is possible and we should now proceed to the vote. (applause from the centre and the right)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to refer specifically to the rules of procedure in their entirety. there are two different views that have been put forward here: that of mrs frassoni, which can certainly be accepted, and that of mrs gebhardt. our rules of procedure are clear, and you have applied them, as president. in cases of doubt, the president shall decide what action to take. you consulted the services, the services gave you a recommendation, you took up that recommendation. i therefore ask that we vote now, as you announced. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. the commission is not in the agreement we reached with the epp-ed group we said that amendments nos 307 and 219 should not be included in the recitals - they concern consumer protection - but should be added to article 3. i therefore ask that this be taken into account when adopting this proposal, should it be accepted.
the rapporteur. the commission is not before we come to the final vote, i would like to thank everyone once again for the very good result we have achieved. we have turned the directive upside down, we have given it a social dimension in the interests of the citizens of our countries. i therefore recommend that my group should vote in favour of this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. taking up mr mauro's proposal and including mr cohn-bendit's motion here, i would suggest that we do take the word 'condemns' there and use the second part requested by the greens/efa group as paragraph 13a. as paragraph 13a, i would also support this. so we would vote in two parts. this would perhaps be a compromise solution which could be agreed by the house as a whole.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. paragraph 8 begins with "warnings", and i would like us to write "calls on" instead. that's more in line with the text.
mr president, i would like to replace the words 'full implementation of all the conditions' in paragraph 11 with 'significant progress in implementing the conditions'.
in writing. the bolkestein directive was aimed at social dumping and deregulation. the socialist group has succeeded in turning this directive into its opposite. the country of origin principle has fallen. this is being replaced by non-discriminatory access to the market. the law of the place of supply of services is applicable. the posting of workers directive applies without restriction and needs to be improved. the same applies to temporary and contract work. we call on the council to stop blocking european legislation. services of general interest are excluded. the directive covers only part of the activities of general economic interest. we are calling for a european framework directive which will regulate this essential sector separately. the legislative process must take account of the following: the fundamental freedoms of workers, as defined in the eu's 'monti clause', take precedence over rules of economic life. the rights of participation and participation in the design of work, which are established by collective agreements or by law, must not be undermined. the legitimate interests of the public interest, as defined in article 4.7a in accordance with the case law of the court of justice, must be respected at all times. the legal obligations in the interests of national and foreign workers (contributions to professional associations, holiday funds, etc.) must apply to both cross-border and domestic service providers. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by the end of the year. rules of public procurement which lay down qualitative requirements must not be flouted.
in writing. the commission proposal for a directive on services was aimed at social dumping and deregulation. i am glad that my group has succeeded in turning this directive into its opposite: the principle of the country of origin has been abolished. and there is no discrimination in access to the market. the law of employment at the place where the service is provided also applies. it is also important to note that the posting of workers directive applies without restriction and that temporary agency work is excluded. the council is now being asked to stop blocking european legislation on temporary agency work. i welcome the fact that services of general interest have been excluded from the scope of the directive. i regret, however, that some services of general economic interest are still covered by the directive. we urgently need a european framework directive which will regulate this important area separately. the following points must be taken into account in the further legislative process: the basic freedoms of workers must take precedence over the rules of economic life. the rights of workers to participate in the decision-making and the formation of the workforce, whether established by collective agreements or by legislation, must not be undermined. the legitimate interests of the general good, as defined in article 4 (7a) in accordance with the case law of the court of justice, must be respected in all circumstances. the legal obligations in the interests of national and foreign workers (contributions to professional associations, holiday funds, etc.) must apply equally to both crossborder and domestic service providers.
in writing. our aim remains to overturn the services directive. today, a rather lazy 'compromise' between the social democrats and the conservatives was adopted by the european parliament by 395 votes to 215. to all the bad concessions that the social democrats had already made to the conservatives, there was one more just before the end. the 'social policy' and 'consumer protection' were not excluded from the scope of the directive, after the 'services of general economic interest' had already been made subject to the freedom to provide services. this is totally unacceptable. the text adopted is not only a free pass for social dumping in europe, but also a slap in the face to the trade unionists, the social initiatives and all those who have taken to the streets in recent days, weeks and months against the bolkestein directive. the behaviour of the german social democrats, who, unlike their french counterparts, were extremely loyal to the bolkestein directive and who handed their own clientele over to the knife, is particularly shameful. the fight against social dumping in europe is just beginning. in the next few months we must intensify our mobilization against the project of the commission, the governments and the anti-social grand coalition in europe.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not after years of civil war and tens of thousands of deaths, negotiations are finally back on track and we must be clear: there can be no military solution to this conflict in sri lanka, but only a political one. i very much welcome the fact that the norwegian government has taken the initiative in these negotiations. it's very interesting that it's norway, and not the european union. but there is a very important problem: the talks cannot take place within the european union because of the so-called eu terrorist list. the ltte is on that list of terrorists, and that means that the negotiators cannot enter the eu. this shows the absurdity of this eu terrorist list, and i believe that it is very often used instrumentally to be able to go after those you don't like politically. i want to make it very clear that i am not entirely happy with the procedure for not voting today, because i think there has been political pressure to not vote today. i would prefer that we make it quite clear that we welcome these negotiations and we want to see a peaceful process in sri lanka.
member of the commission. mr president, once again i should like to thank the honourable members for their contributions. first of all, let me state that the commission is continuing to follow the situation in sri lanka very closely and we welcome the interest shown by european parliament political groups in the resolutions calling for a peaceful solution to the conflict for the people of sri lanka. the commission welcomes the agreement between the government of sri lanka and the ltte to hold talks in geneva on 22 and 23 february, with a view to reinforcing and improving the implementation of the ceasefire agreement concluded in february 2002. we congratulate the norwegian minister, erik solheim, for his tireless efforts and reiterate our full support for him and for norway’s role as facilitator in the peace process. regarding the situation in sri lanka, although violence appears to have declined since the announcement of the geneva talks on 25 january, we are extremely concerned by the escalation of violence in the past few months. over 200 people were killed between the election of the new president in november 2005 and the end of january 2006. the european union has expressed its grave concern about the continuing violence in sri lanka and urged all those engaged in violence and those with influence on them to put an end to it and stop the descent into conflict. the year 2005 and the early part of 2006 were bad periods for the peace process, with the failure of the p-toms, the assassination of foreign minister kadirgamar and the electoral boycott imposed in parts of the north and east. we therefore welcome the geneva talks as an important step, which we hope will help stabilise the situation in sri lanka and lead to the long hoped for peaceful resolution of the bitter conflict. regarding the comments made about the tsunami funds, we have started delivering tsunami reconstruction, despite the failure of the p-toms. the commission allocated tsunami victims in sri lanka eur 5.5 million of assistance to revitalise livelihoods in the north and east and provide affected communities there with basic economic opportunities. that comes on top of a large ec assistance programme already running in the north and the east. what we expected from p-toms was to move to a full reconstruction process where the government, the ltte and the muslim community would agree on priorities and projects. we had put all our weight behind p-toms and had earmarked eur 50 million to go through the mechanism. commissioner ferrero-waldner made that public in march 2005 in colombo, where we pressed very hard for a quick agreement. we still consider that that was the right thing to do. if p-toms had come to life, we would have reversed the negative trend in the peace process. in addition to that, we should not forget that the commission, through its directorate general for humanitarian aid, has provided more than eur 23 million to victims of the conflict in the north and east since the peace process began, and over eur 40 million of aid to tsunami victims. a large part of that aid has been directed at linking humanitarian aid to the reconstruction effort.
a writer. the commission is not guantánamo the history of this us military base is marked by injustice. the united states is there because it has a so-called treaty with a former cuban government, which, according to its understanding, will only be invalidated if both sides cancel it. is it not time to say clearly that this military base must be closed and guantanamo bay returned to cuba? the reports coming in from the u.s. prison camp are frightening. more than 500 prisoners are still held there without trial or trial, and severe mistreatment and torture are being carried out. guantanamo is a lawless space. the torture must end; those responsible must be brought to justice and the torturers brought to justice. it should also be very clear that there are a number of people - such as german chancellor angela merkel - who say they want a shutdown. at the same time, however, their minister of the interior says: 'in guantánamo, if i am correctly informed, a man has been questioned by german authorities.' obviously, germany or other eu countries benefit from this. the double standards of the european union must be ended.
a writer. the commission is not the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. he said: "guantánamo does not even meet the minimum standards of international law". this is a devastating verdict and we as the european union must tell our american partners with all the clarity that we can no longer accept these atrocities in guantanamo and that we have never accepted them. i am very grateful that mrs merkel has made this very clear to president bush. it is simply a fact that the fight against terrorism, which is important and which we support, can only be fought on the basis of the law. if the message to the world from some side is that the stronger side will ultimately prevail, then this would be devastating; then everyone will just try to be the stronger, and we'll go back to the rule of thumb. the fight against the worst injustices can therefore only be waged on the basis of law: on the basis of human rights, on the basis of international law, with the necessary determination and unity. but it can only be achieved if the common values and the common convictions of the western alliance and the european union are strictly respected, and this is clearly not the case in guantánamo. i therefore only have one thing to say to you, mr president bush: close guantanamo as quickly as possible and hand over the prisoners to the ordinary courts!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i note that the house is very much in agreement on this issue. the european union must make a credible demand for the respect of human rights worldwide and vis-à-vis every state. human rights and international humanitarian law are non-negotiable. we must make this clear to our allies in the united states, precisely because we share democratic values. i am really sad that we have to have this debate with our allies, the united states, but that is the difference with other parts of the world where we are demanding human rights. fortunately, in the united states, we have a democratic, open society that has the same debate, and that's encouraging. i think we agree with the majority of americans that we cannot rule out the rule of law on this issue. it is very important that we - in english it is called on moral high ground - remain on a high moral ground if we want to be credible in other parts of the world in fighting terrorism and in working for democracy. we cannot turn a blind eye to these great allies, especially when we are fighting for democracy and human rights in other parts of the world, such as afghanistan. if we consider the political and moral disadvantage we would be in if we remained silent on guantanamo, we would no longer be able to give credence to the countries where we are calling for democracy. therefore, it is right to demand that this camp be closed, that those detained there be brought to justice. we have not said this explicitly, but the consequence must be that if you have no evidence, people must eventually be released, however dangerous that may be in individual cases. but here too, in doubt, the defendant must be held responsible.
member of the commission. mr president, again i would like to thank the honourable members for their very clear remarks. the global fight against terrorism on an unprecedented scale has created new challenges for the protection of human rights. the commission constantly underlines that the fight against terrorism must be conditional on maintaining respect for human rights. with regard to the situation of some 500 individuals who are being detained in guantanámo bay, although the commission does not have competence to intervene on behalf of these detainees, we are following all developments closely. the member states have also voiced concern bilaterally to the us regarding the treatment of their nationals. the commission continues to emphasise that all anti-terrorist measures must be consistent with international humanitarian law and international human rights law. it is our firm belief that the geneva conventions apply to all persons captured on the field of battle. so far as continued detention in guantanámo bay is concerned, according to the international covenant on civil and political rights, there are absolute rights which are to be respected in all circumstances, such as the right not to be tortured or to be subject to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. in this connection, we welcome the recent amendment to the defence appropriations bill introduced by senator mccain, which puts beyond doubt the fact that the prohibition of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment applies to persons held in us custody worldwide. moreover, in our view, every person who has been detained must have some status under international law and is entitled not to be detained arbitrarily and to receive due process and a fair trial. the european union has also made clear its support for the request by united nations special rapporteurs to visit guantanámo bay and to be able to interview detainees in private. the european union has raised this issue repeatedly with the united states and will continue to do so. in response to some of the interventions, the commission has repeatedly made clear to the united states that the european union is firmly opposed to the death penalty in all circumstances. i would also like to say that the report by the un special rapporteurs which was published yesterday is being studied by the commission with a view to taking this issue up again with the united states. it is vital that the international community seeks to reassert full adherence to international law, including human rights and humanitarian standards, in relation to the alleged taliban and al-qa’ida members in guantanámo and elsewhere. it is only by ensuring respect for those values by all parties that real progress will be achieved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to go back briefly to what mr ploegger said about sri lanka. because he's absolutely right. we are dealing here with a dangerous precedent of resolutions being introduced and then withdrawn by the negotiators. we have accepted it this time, but i would like to say on behalf of my group that we will not accept it a second time and that it must not become a precedent.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to make a comment on what mr stevenson has just said. the group of the european socialists in this house is grateful to you for taking this reform initiative, which we support. i also had the impression at the conference of presidents that we were in agreement and that we wanted to discuss this calmly first of all within the political groups. mr poettering has made it clear that there is a need for discussion in his group, as i have explained to my group and as other members have also said. we shall be discussing this in the groups at large and in a broad way. but i would like to make it clear here - and i ask the services to put the article in question in the minutes - that the president has the full confidence of the socialist group in his reforms.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i refer to the proposed agenda and have a request for wednesday: the proposed agenda, the declaration by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council and the lisbon strategy, as well as the debates in the afternoon from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m., the council's declaration on the gymnich meeting, the brok report and other reports, are, in my view, pushing us to the limits of what is reasonable in terms of organization, which i shall explain by means of some figures at the time of the speech. the allocation of speaking time for the council declaration on the summit, for the council and commission declaration followed by the debate, is as follows: the council has 30 minutes to speak, the commission 20 minutes and the plenary 60 minutes. that means that the other two institutions have about as much speaking time as all the members and all the political groups combined. the result is that in a debate on this subject the epp group has 18 minutes, my group 14, the liberals 7, the greens 4.5. i have just said in my group that this is a call for a fight within the groups, because if i were to allow all my experts to speak, i would need more speaking time than we have here. this is why we have the one-minute speeches. this is for the internal peace of the political groups, but not for the quality of the parliamentary debate. it doesn't make sense. we therefore urge you to continue the reforms you have started. we simply need more time for such debates. but what we also need is to ask the institutions, in the circumstances in which we are now forced to work, to reduce their speaking time somewhat. i am quite sure that the key messages which the council and the commission will be presenting will also be presenting in less than 30 or 20 minutes. because i have to deliver my core messages in five minutes, and i never felt like i failed. if i had 20 minutes here, that would be great for me and for the house! (cheers and applause) mr president, this time i would ask you and the services to speak to the two institutions, the president of the council and the president of the commission - whoever is present - by wednesday and to reduce the speaking time so that we have a little more time for the groups to debate. i 'll just read you the figures for this afternoon . in the afternoon, the council will speak for 50 minutes on the reports i have just presented, the commission for 50 minutes, the rapporteur, mr brok, for five minutes - which is already totally inadequate in terms of weight - and all members have 90 minutes! that, mr president, is not sensible. that is why i am asking the institutions to discuss a reduction now for wednesday in the short term, and in the long term i am asking the house to arrange our agendas in such a way that we have reasonable time to have important debates together. (applause from the centre)
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i hope that this resolution will be a success, a success in the sense that this subject will finally be brought out of the taboo zone and into the public eye. neither the perpetrators nor - unfortunately - the victims want to talk about forced prostitution. we must also deal much more with the link between migration policy and employment policy. it is a huge success that the defensive wall of the german football association has been broken, which wanted to keep this subject in the taboo zone. we must - and this has been said - give the red card to trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. we must make it clear that fair play in sport clearly includes the rejection of forced prostitution. no case of forced prostitution can be tolerated. but, mr frattini, we also expect that not only the perpetrators and, of course, the traffickers will be targeted. but we also need solutions that do not continue to criminalize only women. i hope you will address this in your speech afterwards. i expect us to do more than introduce a visa requirement, where women are the victims, but we need prevention, but we also need the care of women. we must ensure that women who are not prepared to testify as witnesses have the right to remain, as is the case in the italian immigration law. we need more to enable women to also get out of this forced prostitution.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. 'the world is with friends' is the motto of the football world cup in germany. as the sports community prepares, organized trafficking gangs are also preparing to bring thousands of women to germany to be exploited. the women are lured to germany with false promises and then forced into prostitution. poverty is one of the main causes, and we have to start there. but hospitality in germany also means that we don't look away, that we protect the women who are in need. up to 800 000 women are trafficked worldwide, of whom 100 000 are from the eu. how many will be in germany this summer, we cannot tell. but we should show the traffickers the red card! i hope that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the proposals put forward by the committee on women's rights in the prets report and the action plan against trafficking in women are implemented. we need funds to support the campaigns of women's organizations to offer telephone hotlines in many languages. we need to implement victim protection. as has already been mentioned, the 2002 asylum directive has been implemented only half-heartedly in the member states. we need to create pressure. belgium has created a right of residence for women who are willing to give evidence and who try to leave prostitution and who then receive help. that's very good. europol must be more closely involved in the fight against modern trafficking in women. and of course the sports federations are asked: so we want to rely on their cooperation, to appeal to the fans, who also have to keep their eyes open and do something. but i'm not for such hip shots as the extra visa requirement for women. please reconsider your decision.
thank you, commissioner. your obvious engagement made it impossible for me to interrupt you when your allotted ten minutes of speaking time were up. it would have broken my heart to interrupt you. however, we are running out of time and we must move on quickly.
i have to say, madam president, it is very important that the fight against trafficking in women and human beings be debated on the eve of the world cup in germany. we are talking about thousands of additional prostitutes, many of whom will be forced to do this work involuntarily. from my long experience with ngos in the area of child prostitution on the czech border with germany and austria, i believe that the fight against these crimes can only be achieved through the improvement of laws and the strengthening of the competences of the various institutions and authorities, as well as cross-border cooperation with central and eastern europe. in the longer term, however, poverty reduction and education campaigns are necessary to show the red card to forced prostitution. the introduction of a day against trafficking in human beings will raise awareness of this problem.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a friend of my 20-year-old daughter recently told me she was thrilled to get a job as a hostess at the soccer world cup. i asked her how she had come to do so, and the young athlete told me that she had applied to the german sports federation and had been offered the job. in that case, i'm sure it's a serious offer. but imagine that you live in poverty and your daughter announces to you that she has the opportunity to go to germany in the summer because she has a great job offer there! of course, as a parent, you rejoice at every opportunity your child has, but who thinks about the dangers, who actually questions whether it is a serious offer? that's just one of the many ways things can get started. that's where we need to start, with the recon on the ground. there are many studies, commissioner, as you pointed out. but we must alert people - parents and children - to the dangers that lurk behind such dubious offers. we know that the demand for sexual services during these big events increases dramatically, and with it, of course, the number of criminal acts such as human trafficking and forced prostitution. few women and children work without brothels and pimps. thousands are brought in under false pretenses from central and eastern europe, africa, asia and latin america. they are driven by poverty at home and the anxiety of feeding their families. they come here, they are subjugated and exploited in the most brutal way, and they lose their dignity and pride in the end. in addition to the information on the ground, we must take action in the country where the events are taking place: public relations, a multilingual 24-hour telephone hotline, all of this is planned, and that is why we support these actions. especially now, in the context of the world cup, let's show the red card. let's talk about this.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i am pleased that the rapporteur, after initially taking very different positions in the committee, has been able to reach such a broad compromise on this report. i am in favour of this compromise. i would like to emphasize three points again. firstly, i was interested to learn that the fewest companies that relocate their businesses actually receive european aid, that is, aid from european taxpayers' money, and i think that the question of cohesion and structural policy, which is based on solidarity with weaker regions, is not being discussed in this house. secondly, we need more transparency in the question of which companies receive which aid, so that our electorate can understand what we as the european union are really doing, what we are supporting. we certainly don't support aid hopping. thirdly, in the event of relocation leading to job losses, we need a tool to help those affected. the globalisation fund could be one such instrument.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not subsidy hopping is a popular blackmailing game in the european union, which is clearly at the expense of the taxpayer. this game has been played not only since the accession of the ten new member states but also since sweden joined, when a company from bremen, which had just received funding, was lured into the new swedish objective 2 area. the public measures against unemployment in bremen were thus thwarted. the example illustrates what is at issue here. it is not a question of restricting the freedom of establishment, but of making it compulsory for companies receiving public funds to make a commitment to the region to create jobs there. the commission has proposed a five-year period. i think that's too little. it is purely symbolic and has no effect whatsoever. if one considers that the companies sometimes receive up to 50% of their investments from the public sector, this period must be longer: at least seven years. that was the proposal of the old commission. five years is a considerable reduction; even seven years is very little in this case. in order to really limit subsidy hopping, we need this longer period. i think that mr hutchinson's report addresses some essential points and that it is an important report. i expect the commission to reconsider these five years - because at this level of support this is also a distortion of competition - to incorporate the european parliament's recommendation of seven years into its aid regulation and also to tighten controls and blacklist the companies involved in this subsidy hopping, as the rapporteur proposes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. as we know, the free movement of persons, goods and capital, as laid down in the ec treaty, is established within the union, so that it is hardly possible to call for an absolute ban on the free choice of location, especially since such a ban would lead to a negative immobilisation of the european economy. but it is necessary - and the reform of the structural funds and the law on aid offers the opportunity - to introduce a complement to the principles of free movement, provided that this is done within the framework of cohesion policy. this means that it is essential that the commission, when it approves aid and also funds from the structural funds, ensures that the granting of such aid is linked to medium-term guarantees of location and employment. yes, europe must provide for this! this report by mr hutchinson - although it was the subject of intense discussions in the committee - makes it clear that the undertakings receiving aid are committed to implementing the policy of economic, social and territorial cohesion. this means, in plain language, that the commission's proposal under the structural funds will be enforced consistently in that companies which have received public aid but do not fulfil their obligations will have to repay it, but will in no case be allowed to receive public aid for the new sites and will be excluded from structural fund support or state aid for a period of at least five years - or better seven years - after the relocation. the report stresses the need to take all necessary measures to prevent european regional policy from providing incentives for relocation of enterprises, which would result in job losses. the report by mr hutchinson is balanced in its present form and should be supported.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the framework conditions for european structural policy are changing dramatically. globalisation is accelerating structural change and companies are facing increasing competitive pressures. at the same time, the triumph of the global market economy is increasing the supply of potential production sites. the logical consequence is ever-faster adjustments to the location. and here is where industry comes in: opening up new markets with new sites, and cost pressures also force them to move to low-cost countries. the european union is the only country in which the number of people moving to asia or ukraine is the same. these relocations are taking place and are a normal expression of structural change. the eu should not put any legal obstacles in the way. but it is equally clear that we cannot subsidize things which have already been decided in the business world. no entrepreneur will move his site because of a one-off subsidy. he'll only do that if the location factors are consistently right. the commission has not yet received any information on the level of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. that is precisely what we must exclude in future, because european structural funds are too valuable for that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we regret that the commission and the german social democrats deny that this transfer subsidy exists. of course, european regional aid provides incentives for these redundant take-aways. the fact that few case examples are known simply means that the threshold for reporting is set far too high. we therefore call on the commission to finally take seriously the suggestions made by parliament and the council of ministers. we are calling for a legally enforceable regulation which will put an end to this waste of european money once and for all.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank mr matsakis for his good, constructive and open cooperation in this report. we have a report here in the run-up to the legislation, so we are giving a direction here, but we are not yet setting a definitive course. the legislative measures must follow. it is now common knowledge that mercury is highly toxic and therefore needs to be withdrawn from circulation. the targets of banning exports from 2010 and safely storing mercury withdrawn from circulation are first important and pioneering signals. the principle of substitution is also already apparent here. this is all the more important because mercury is not biodegradable and so circulates forever. every microgram of mercury will return to humans over and over again through the food chain. already today, coastal dwellers who eat fish often have mercury levels in their tissues that exceed the permitted limits. i am afraid that at the moment there is no way of changing that, and there are no consequences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the commission's proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. therefore, the principle of precaution and care is the first principle before experimenting with a living object. i will not recommend amalgam and mercury products to my clients and patients and will work to remove mercury from the circulation as quickly and as widely as possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not in the countries which want to continue the transitional rules, a sham debate is being held. that includes germany. because it is very popular to lie to people, and above all to lie to them that the transitional rules can protect the labour market. the opposite is true. the transitional rules do not stop the migrant workers. since they cannot enter into a legal employment relationship, they are left with an illegal one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the pressure for higher wages is therefore much greater. unlike legal employment, there is no control in illegal employment. this means exploitation and discrimination for the workers. what we need in europe is an orderly labour market with minimum standards and a clear basic principle: equal pay for equal work in the same place. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i, as a german, am calling for the transitional rules not to be continued, but for the market to be opened up in germany and for orderly conditions to be created.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, i should like to thank our rapporteur for his excellent report and for the constructive cooperation. digitalisation is changing the media and communications landscape. in the future, the separation of infrastructure and content will become less important, all content will be accessible on all platforms. you can have all the content ultimately through any technology, whether it's the television set, whether it's the computer or the mobile phone. and what's also revolutionary, of course, is that all of this content is ultimately available today in good quality on all platforms and technologies. the number of providers, the number of competitors, is growing, the telecom companies are in the market, cable operators, satellite operators, the mobile operators, the content providers, the internet providers, and so on and so forth. everyone is developing their business models, and nobody -- including us -- knows what business model will ultimately prevail and what viewers really want to access at the end of the day, what they want to see, what content they want to see. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a lot of questions in the coming weeks and months. i am very grateful to mr paasilinna and all the other members who contributed to the report for the way in which the main points were re-stated and clarified in his report. i 'll address some of them: how much regulation is still needed in the telecommunications sector in the future? what role should the european union play in this? how do we want to shape the frequency policy? one problem is international roaming, which is extremely irritating to our citizens because there are still too many charges for cross-border calls in the mobile phone sector. these are all questions that will occupy us in the weeks and months ahead. i look forward to an interesting dialogue with you and i think that the digital world, which poses so many challenges for us as legislators, will surely keep us breathing in the coming weeks and months.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i agree that the pressure to restructure is always equated by the companies concerned with a natural phenomenon that suddenly overtakes them. i do not think that is the case. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. they are responsible for continuing to educate. i agree with the rapporteur that continuing training is a right of the workforce. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of training and to improve the quality of the training. but it would be a mistake for companies to take the position that it is the public sector's job to do this and that it should be the public sector's job to do this. i admit that in some regions such restructuring or even relocation of businesses is accompanied by very high unemployment for the region. but in such situations i am calling for instruments such as the territorial employment pacts which we have created here together with parliament and the commission. they were really excellent because they involved all the local actors, as the studies show. they are efficient, they have been supported by european structural funds and they have been successful. i am really surprised that the commission does not emphasize its support for such territorial employment pacts and does not use these opportunities as much as it did in the past. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but it must be ensured that only those companies can participate in this fund which actually take on the social responsibility for continuing training and education and do not pass it on. it's the only way to prevent this fund from becoming an alibi. the participation of all actors, including businesses, in social plans must therefore be a prerequisite for public involvement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am grateful to mr cottigny for the very intensive work he has put into this report. however, i doubt that the intention behind the report, namely to mitigate the social consequences of restructuring, is actually feasible. firstly, the european union has set as its economic and, therefore, restructuring objectives the objective of increasing competitiveness in global competition. it is simply trying to find and locate the weakest outside the eu and transport the losers there too. secondly, in order to be able to absorb the social consequences of restructuring, the funds for the losers of globalisation would have to be so high that competitiveness would actually be weakened. so instead of exporting our problems as the eu, we should ask the question: restructuring yes, but how? we need a different kind of economy, a reproduction of society, that is based on real social, global sustainability. the aim must not be to try to be the winner at any cost and to conform to this logic. that is the challenge we are facing!
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. the equality institute is an old demand of the european parliament, which we are raising not only on international women's day, which we are celebrating this month, but we really want improvements in the quality of equality policy. that is why we welcome the commission's proposal. we have asked the two large groups in the women's committee, mrs sartori and myself, to draw up the report in order to ensure that it receives broad support. we have made compromises, we have jointly tabled a number of amendments, aimed mainly at ensuring a streamlined administration, the primacy of politics. we want to avoid duplication of effort so that there is no overlap with other agencies. we want to ensure that the entire expertise on gender issues from national institutes, gender experts, universities, ngos is involved in a network. in addition to the commission's proposal, we have tabled amendments aimed at consultative involvement of civil society. the gender institute is a very important tool to ensure that we, the policy-makers, have rapid access to the results of gender research in order to improve legislation. this centre of excellence should be an independent institution, which should of course follow the guidelines of the european union and our policies. it will be a milestone that will have an impact far beyond the borders of the european union. but there is also the danger, of course, that - and this is an attitude which is currently being adopted by some of my colleagues in this house - people will say: we do not want our own equality institute, but that it should be merged with the human rights agency. i think that this is a great danger, because the visibility of the european union's programmes to the public would no longer be guaranteed. we need an outward-looking instrument, like the equality programme. i think we have not succeeded in ensuring visibility in progress. the equality body must ensure that. we need a small, fine institution that works with determination. a 'no' vote today would be a major setback for the european union's policy on equality, and a major setback for the road map on equality which was so convincingly presented last week. president barroso presented the roadmap last week. let us today vote in favour of the sartori/greens report and ensure that the timetable is respected and that there are no delays.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in fact, we need another effective instrument in the european union to take greater steps towards equality between women and men. because if we keep on tripping like this, our great-granddaughters will have to struggle to create equality. this additional instrument could be the planned institute for gender equality. but since we as parliamentarians at european level - especially we women - want to be not only hardworking but also sustainable, the framework conditions must be right in which our future gender institute is to operate. this includes the available financial resources to be used by the institution. the committee on budgets and the rapporteur for the agencies have at least two points to make. first, we already have 23 agencies, many of which are in the process of being built or rebuilt. they all have a high financial need for each other. if our agreement with the council on the next financial framework leads to an overall figure lower than that proposed by parliament, the decentralised agencies will also be affected. secondly, the commission's proposal, which we as parliament do not object to, is that the gender institute should be financed entirely from the fifth action area of progress. in june last year, in our opinion on the financial perspective, we as parliament gave more than eur 850 million to progress. the council, however, withdrew almost 300 million in december. but without adequate financial resources, we will not achieve lasting effects on equality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. otherwise we will be building potamkin villages again, frustrating employees and throwing sand in the eyes of the citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the greens are fully behind an independent and effective gender institute. we support the report by mrs gröner and mrs sartori in its entirety. 'why do we need a new institute?' many people ask. why would you do that? because gender equality is the hallmark of the european union, because the european union has said that equality is a value for us in the european union, and because we know that discrimination against women still exists. and this is not - as mrs ludford has just said - just human rights violations. we see this in the job market, in sports, and in many other areas. we know that the role of women is a pioneer, not only in terms of the potential of lisbon, but also in demography, for example, where women play a very important role. as regards the violations of human rights by migrant women, mothers in particular have a central role to play. we have heard just yesterday from commissioner frattini that we still have too few statistics, particularly in relation to forced prostitution. we need this european gender institute. the european union has been a beacon for gender equality policy in the past. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. this would be the european parliament's oath of allegiance to gender equality policy. so i'm asking for a really strong vote for this equality body. we need that visibility. but the gender institute is not a substitute for legislative initiative. we will be vigilant to ensure that the policy on equal opportunities does not come to a standstill. the gender institute must not be a conciliation or a diversionary manoeuvre for inaction in legislation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs is a good one. so i would ask once again for a very large majority for this report.
in writing. the european commission announced the european institute for gender equality even before the european parliament had submitted its report. that's not right in the process. we are voting on this today, and parliament's vote counts on this! the commission is proposing to set up a separate institute with a budget of eur 54.5 million to monitor equal opportunities for men and women by producing statistics and reports. for practical and financial reasons, however, the european parliament already made a recommendation last year that the institute for gender equality should become part of the european agency for human rights. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take action to promote equal opportunities for women and men. the original idea of merging the two agencies into a single fundamental rights agency is therefore to be welcomed. that is why i tabled amendment no 73. the rejection of the creation of an independent equality institute should not be seen as a step against women's policy. the money available should be invested in the education of women. this is the first step towards equality. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european agency for safety and health at work is a very good one. that is why i did not agree to the report.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i have a few questions and i will not be able to speak on behalf of my group in this case because, as with the anti-dumping cases, i think we are pretty much divided and have our own views on this issue. nevertheless, i want to thank the commissioner for presenting his point of view and for intervening. my starting point is that the anti-dumping measures and instruments need to be taken quite seriously. on that point, i support my colleague mr sturdy, who is right. if we do not use the instrument in a transparent and fair way it could become quite complicated for us. my first question to the commissioner is: will the eu produce an overall assessment of the conditions of competition and state intervention in the people’s republic of china? the european parliament would also like to receive a report on china’s compliance with wto rules and accession commitment five years after its accession to the wto. would the ec take wto action if china and vietnam do not stop their unfair actions within a reasonable period of time and what would these measures be? commissioner, do you agree that the ec agreement and the results of the ad investigations are confidential and that leaks of information may lead to market distortions? could you explain in detail the rationale behind the exclusion of children’s footwear, especially in view of the fact that in some countries children’s footwear is worn by adults? could you explain why the publication of the results of the anti-surveillance system were so delayed? if i am not completely mistaken, it was one year. one small point: how do you see this investigation relating to another evaluation which is currently being undertaken as regards giving china market economy status?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we lack a strategy for how the european union will deal with globalisation. we now have the globalization fund to deal with the past. but what solutions do we have for the future? my first reaction to this case was that we are dealing with protectionism as in the case of textiles. that would be bad, because we need free and fair market access worldwide. it is important for our producers in the european union. and it is important that we as the european union follow the rules, because we demand that our other trading partners do too. after i got more information, i realized that it's not protectionism, it's dumping. and i realized that the measures you're taking are much more technically advanced than the textiles were back then. but i also realized that our actions are inconsistent again, and inconsistency will be interpreted by the chinese as weakness. why we excluded the sneakers from the trial still makes sense. but why are we taking off the children's shoes? either it's dumping or it's not dumping. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take action in the field of trade policy. and if you look at the fact that at an import price of 6.50 euros, the same shoe can cost 120 euros in the final price, then it becomes clear that even the alleged price increases of 20% against which importers warn are completely unjustified. let's look at the subject of china. what are the causes of the dumping case? on the one hand, i have great anxiety. companies are not able to keep clean accounts or to keep a clean line. that's part of the reasoning. but on the other hand, i am also very concerned about the ever-increasing state share in dumping, about unjustified land prices, about tax breaks for export companies, bad loans from banks, the cost of raw materials that are subsidized, and much more. therefore, it simply does not make sense in this context to grant china market economy status, as some parts of the commission seem to want to do. we must also be consistent here. i hope that in future we will be more consistent and more respectful of the rules in all these cases.
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner if he could make a short comment on a question raised by many of our colleagues on granting market economy status to china.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in july last year, the german federal constitutional court declared the law implementing the european arrest warrant in germany invalid. it has rightly demanded that the german legislature fully discharge its responsibility for protecting and respecting the fundamental rights of citizens guaranteed by the german constitution. this judgment was undoubtedly a resounding slap in the face to the german legislator. it is against this background that i find it simply incomprehensible, madam minister, that the council should allow the framework decision on procedural rights in criminal proceedings to be dragged along and have so far remained inactive. it is simply unacceptable and the rights of the accused need to be significantly strengthened, particularly in the light of the european arrest warrant. i would like to add my voice to what many of my colleagues have already said. these rights include, of course, that the accused should be informed of his rights in a language which he understands. you must have the right to an interpreter and, of course, to ensure that documents relevant to criminal proceedings are translated. madam minister! the council must finally act on this, and this is essential, because the citizens of the european union must be sure that their rights are uniformly protected and respected in europe.
the president of the council. we assume that germany is a state governed by the rule of law and that it is up to the german authorities to take appropriate measures to counter racism and xenophobia, including during the world cup. i am quite sure that germany will take appropriate measures.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, i have actually answered questions 7 and 8 from sarah ludford and gay mitchell together, but i am of course available for additional questions.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think this is a good idea in principle, because i also believe that we must work together to ensure that racism and xenophobia in europe have no chance. i also see that sport can build bridges here, because young people in particular, who are our future, but also adults in many cases, can exercise together and then, in the long run, do activities together. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good one. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. racism and xenophobia are very often linked to prejudice. prejudice is often born of not knowing another culture, because anything we don't know is often associated with fear. of course, since fear in turn produces negative emotions, it can give rise to racism and xenophobia. so anything that can help us to get to know each other better, to get to know the other culture even better, to overcome xenophobia, is welcome. the question is - because you have now specifically addressed me as minister of justice - whether we as the council actually have the appropriate competence under the eu treaty. but i think it's an important political message that we should all be taking forward.
thank you very much for that. we will discuss this with the council presidency and see how we proceed next time, so that all parties are satisfied.
questions which have not been dealt with for reasons of time will be answered in writing (see annex). the question time to the council is closed.
the next item is the question time with questions to the commission (b6-0013/2006).
thank you, colleague. i will pass this on to the general secretariat, mr rømer. that's where the decision was made. i would like to remind you of the rules of procedure, and i would like to remind you of annex ii, point 3, which deals with the conduct of question time under rule 109. it says that a question is not admissible if the same or similar question has been asked in the previous three months. that is obviously the basis of the decision. i can tell you that for now, but i will pass on what you have said. part one
thank you, colleague. i will pass this on to the general secretariat, mr rømer. that's where the decision was made. i would like to remind you of the rules of procedure, and i would like to remind you of annex ii, point 3, which deals with the conduct of question time under rule 109. it says that a question is not admissible if the same or similar question has been asked in the previous three months. that is obviously the basis of the decision. i can tell you that for now, but i will pass on what you have said. question no 43 is therefore inadmissible since the author is not present. question no 44 by mr bill newton dunn (h-0134/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: budget for the trans crime project the budget allocated by the commission for the trans crime project is limited to the eu-15. given that the largest proportion of organised crime outside the eu, operating at a wide scale, originates in the east and south-east, would it not be better to increase the budget for this project in such a way as to allow for the participation of all 25 member states?
member of the commission. i am sure that we are not all business people, nor will all our children be business people, but it is important that we understand how businesses operates. we believe – and when i say ‘we’, i also mean member states, because there is strong consensus on the set of key competences, which include entrepreneurial initiative – that it is about an ability to understand the complexity, an ability to take initiatives, to turn initiative into action and take up personal responsibility. this is also good for employees, not only for employers: employees who are active and creative are good employees for any serious company. that is why we believe that such ability is very helpful for the whole of society and individuals and that it is not just about propagation and production of businesses and business people. it is about a mentality which should also be more mature in a changing environment, in an environment which requires a deeper understanding of influences and dynamism.
member of the commission. this should be part of a communication or promotion by colleagues in the commission and this house alike, because europe tends to compare its potential with that of many other partners. i think we have the potential, but most blockages or obstacles stem either from our rules, that is to say, how we organise our economies or societies, or from our mentality. that is why i fully support mr rübig’s point that this basic concept – the key competences including education for entrepreneurship, education for culture, cultural awareness, citizenship and, of course, languages, mathematics, science, digital literacy and learning to learn – is important for everybody. lifelong learning is and must be based on some basic competences, and these include an entrepreneurial ability or mindset. therefore, i also would like to invite you and all friends of smes, all friends of initiatives taken by our citizens and institutions, to promote the important concept of lifelong learning. i was not surprised but encouraged during the last question time when a colleague spoke of lifelong learning as a right of citizens, a right of an individual vis-à-vis the state or its authorities to have access to lifelong learning, not just to basic or secondary education. to implement such systems, we also need greater mental readiness. thank you and let us work together on this.
question 48 was declared inadmissible (annex ii, part a, point 3 of the ra). question no 49 by mr mölzer (h-0102/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: turkish lira coin for a year now, turkey has been issuing a one-lira coin (worth 0.6 euro) which bears an uncanny resemblance to the two-euro coin. firstly, the head of kemal atatürk on the one-lira coin is liable to be confused with that of king albert ii. the technical similarities in weight and thickness caused a high level of damage to vending machine owners in the eu. the problem is also with the sorting machines of the banks, apart from the ordinary citizen who may not even be aware of the danger of confusion. how does the commission assess this latest turkish move? how is it possible for the currency of a country to bear such close resemblances to the euro? what does the commission intend to do to protect european citizens?
vice-president of the commission. the question concerns turkish coins issued from the beginning of 2005, which are quite similar to eu coins. of course the commission shares the concern of the honourable member of parliament about this issue. that sort of thing should not happen. the right to issue coins is one of the most fundamental sovereign rights of a country. however, informal consultations are recommended. there is a network called the coin registration office, established by the international mint directors conference. member mints are assumed to have consulted the coin registration office when preparing a new coin, so that similarities can be avoided. obviously that was not done properly in this case, so coins have appeared which are similar to euro coins. that was not the first time such a thing has occurred. in 2000, in some countries, some coins were very similar to euro coins. even in my own country, when i was in charge of that area, we issued coins which were similar to deutschmarks and we therefore had to change our production. the commission is working with the turkish authorities and they have promised to modify their coins slightly. the production of coins is very expensive and a large exercise. however, there is no panic and the risks are very limited. the vending machines – which are the main issue – can be adjusted. our estimation is that there are some old models of vending machines that are more difficult to adjust, but the majority of new ones can be properly adjusted so that they can take the correct coins. visibly they are quite different. if these coins are handled in the retail trade, they can easily be distinguished. so the risks are limited. the commission has also worked with manufacturers of the coin mechanisms to keep them informed that mechanisms must be adjusted to this problem. we are working with the turkish authorities to ensure that the new production of coins will be slightly modified so that they will not be so similar to euro coins.
vice-president of the commission. this must be negotiated in all frameworks, including the accession negotiation framework. there is some kind of gentleman’s agreement that this sort of thing should not happen. if it does, then the producers of smaller coins must make some adjustments so that the situation with the use of similar coins can be avoided. this will be negotiated. i will have an opportunity to meet the members of the turkish government soon, so i will definitely raise the issue within a certain time, because, as i say, the production of coins is a huge and very expensive exercise. in time we can solve this problem, but until then we will work with the producers of coin mechanisms to avoid possible damage.
vice-president of the commission. questions 50 and 51 are quite similar but, if necessary, i will answer them separately, although the concept will be the same. i must begin by saying that the european schools constitute one of the most complicated issues in my area of responsibility, and there are a lot of problems. the system is very independent and complicated. governance of the system does not fall to the commission, and in fact the commission is just one member of the board of governors, which consists of 29 members. the rapid enlargement of the european union has brought a lot of people to our locations – not only to brussels – and we have a lot of problems regarding the lack of places needed for children in schools and other facilities. one solution, which is extremely necessary, would be to open a fourth brussels school in laeken in 2009. why laeken? that decision was taken by the belgian government. belgium is the host country and makes quite a significant contribution to the school infrastructure. all the infrastructure is provided by the host country. i have been in touch with the belgian government and ministers. president barroso has taken this issue up with the belgian government to speed up this process, and 2009 is earlier than originally envisaged. now it is a matter of deciding the school’s internal arrangements for the language sections: which language sections will be opened and which will be transferred. first, it is too early to say that anything has been decided. it is still under discussion and the commission is only one part, and definitely not the dominant part, of these discussions. the board of governors will take the decisions. of course, the commission tries to provide input based on its experience and knowledge, and to participate in this process and secure the interests of parents of the european institutions as well as to ensure transparency and fair process. at its meeting on 25 and 26 october, the board of governors adopted a list of criteria on how to deal with the language sections. a working group, the ‘groupe de suivi bruxelles iv’, was established and the secretary-general of the european school presented a preliminary document to this group. again, the commission is actively participating in this group, but we are only one partner. finally, that ‘groupe de suivi bruxelles iv’ must take all considerations into account and come up with a proper solution. some preliminary solutions – options a and b – were discussed, but it is really too early to say that one solution is preferable to the other. that group is now discussing intermediate options which adopt the best parts of both solutions, which include one principle – supported by the commission – that the children currently enrolled in one of the existing schools in any section should not be obliged to move to laeken. that is probably a good idea for parents whose children already go to those schools. it is very difficult to imagine that the definitive solution will satisfy everybody, but we must find a solution which ensures that the pupils will get the best education. we are working with the board of governors and with the dutch government, which is presiding over the board, about the reform of the european schools, because there are a lot of problems, including structural problems, and, obviously, this system must be modified. this is my conceptual answer and i cannot say today that we have prepared any hidden agendas or solution. we work with the ‘groupe de suivi bruxelles iv’ very seriously and i can assure you that we take these issues very seriously, but it is a very difficult area and a lot of problems have accumulated, and now we have to find final, long-term solutions. we will work hard with the belgian government and the brussels authorities to find some transitional solutions to solve short-term problems and shortages in all our facilities. that is the picture today.
you are right, commissioner. we should discuss questions no 50 and no 51 together. it's a complex issue. there are also many colleagues who are interested in this subject. but first i give the floor to the two speakers for their supplementary question.
vice-president of the commission. i will not say that we will support option b. i have not said that we will support option a either. we are trying to find a compromise solution. if you want me to say that i will give all appropriations to option b, i cannot. i must reiterate that the decision-makers are the board of governors, along with the working party – the groupe de suivi – which includes parents and other interested parties. that is the process. with this kind of complicated question i always try to find some kind of compromise solution. that is probably also the case in this complicated area. the next meeting of the board of governors will take place at the end of april. all possible solutions and aspects will be discussed. your question about the italian section has been raised many times and others are also involved. we have tried to find a balanced solution and not to penalise anybody.
member of the commission. i am deeply aware of the pending cases of international adoptions of romanian children and the understandable anxiety surrounding this issue among the families who would like to give these children a new home. as part of the legislative reforms in preparation for acceding to the union, and with the support of the european parliament over the years, romania recently adopted new legislation on child protection. according to this legislation, which entered into force on 1 january 2005, international adoption is a last resort, if a suitable in-country solution, ranging from smaller homes to foster care, cannot be found. through this law, romania has aligned itself with the legal provisions of the european union in this area, as also embodied in the un convention on the rights of the child. the application of these provisions must be seen within the context of former abusive practices relating to international adoptions in romania. as to the more precise legal aspects, it should furthermore be noted that there is currently no community legislation in the field of international adoption. in fact, council regulation (ec) no 2201/2003, which provides for mutual recognition of judgments on parental responsibility, explicitly excludes adoption from its scope. this means basically that the acquis communautaire in the area of child protection has been implemented in romania and bulgaria. the un convention on the rights of the child is taken as a foundation in both romania and bulgaria. the un convention on the rights of the child does not distinguish between the internal and external borders of the european union.
we have not only this question on the subject, but also questions nos 55 and 56. if the members are in agreement, we can deal with these requests together. but first i would like to give the floor to the author of the question, mr medina ortega, for a supplementary question.
member of the commission. we have twinning structures with romania in a number of fields relating to the reform public administration in romania. we have found that for eastern and central europe – the so-called new member states, as well as the future member state of romania – twinning has been one of the most effective arrangements for disseminating knowledge. yes, we intend to consider twinning also in this field more and more in the future. it is a very useful practice and the phare framework programme provides for it. we have to study it more carefully to see what practical arrangements can be made.
member of the commission. i have already responded on the basis of a very careful assessment by the commission. as i said, we have never had any proof about the use of caged beds in romania but, if you have some concrete evidence in this regard, i am willing to study it and i will ask my civil servants to take another look at it and we can then raise the matter with romania if need be.
questions which have not been dealt with for reasons of time will be answered in writing (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.50 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. pension policy, the fight against poverty, health care and long-term care are key issues for us and for all citizens of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the present procedure is totally unacceptable. we are already discussing an outdated matter today. the council has already discussed the commission's follow-up communication. we really need an interinstitutional agreement. commissioner, you said today that you would be in favour of dialogue with parliament. i thank you very much for this, but what we want is not just a casual dialogue, we really want to conclude an interinstitutional agreement with very clear rules of the game. the open coordination in the field of social protection should also in future address more closely issues of reconciliation between family and work and should pay particular attention to childcare.
member of the commission. mr president, today i would like to congratulate parliament on a very important day that finalises our discussions on the financial regulation. it is an important week because parliament’s opinion will be put to the vote in this house. i wish to congratulate both rapporteurs on the job they have done. i acknowledge the huge job done by them in tabling these amendments. i would like to confirm that the commission will include the vast majority of parliament’s proposals in its new revised proposal. i would also like to confirm that the objectives of parliament and the commission are more or less the same. in light of these shared objectives regarding the simplified rules and the reduction of red tape, i am pleased to announce that we will, very soon after parliament’s vote, put forward our new revised proposal. we know that the council is ready to give us a final decision and final opinion very soon. i would like to give you a few examples of the many amendments we are very eager to include in our new proposal: an explicit reference to the principle of proportionality – this will help to define a lighter procedure for smaller projects; information for grant applicants and standardised application forms for the same policy areas; and reinforcing the division of procurement contracts into specialist and/or partial lots. the fourth element that we are positively evaluating is the two-step procedure in the grant application process, which will avoid unnecessary costs in the initial phase. the commission and parliament are not the only two players in the current legislative process. the european economic and social committee and the court of auditors delivered their opinions between october and december 2005. the council is about to complete its first reading. i should like to stress that the legislative process of revision of the community financial rules has now made substantial progress. our common goal is to have new, simpler and more modern financial rules, better adapted to the new generation of spending programmes, hopefully applying from january 2007. that is why the timing is so important and why we cannot miss our deadlines. i am committed to working hard in the forthcoming interinstitutional negotiations and encouraging a conciliation process aimed at achieving an effective consensus between parliament and the council.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am submitting 135 amendments to the rules of procedure to the house today. i am very pleased that commissioner grybauskaitė has announced today that she will be incorporating key points from this report into the commission's revised version. the european parliament is using this first periodic revision of this important administrative text to eliminate fundamental problems. we have heard very fundamental and harsh criticisms of the bureaucratic procedures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thank you all very much. their expertise will help to improve procedures. i would like to thank mr borrell, the president of this house, and of course my colleagues from the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control, in particular mr pahor and all those who have worked on the motions for amendments for months in the intergroup. not only because of the good cooperation between the two committees, but also because of the general pressure for reform, both committees adopted the report by a large majority and unanimously. my personal assistant, mr. sichel, has done a great job here. i would like to thank him very much for that. i would also like to thank the commission, mrs grybauskaitė, mr romero, mr taverne and his staff for the many fruitful discussions which i really hope and look forward to. we all - i have personally been involved in the budgetary procedure for many years - ask ourselves: what kind of europe is this that requires such complicated and expensive application procedures? up to one third of the grant is lost for the cost of the application. every year, organisations throw considerable sums of money into the wastebasket by participating in calls for tenders for european policies. they're getting involved even though they have no prospect of success. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only 5 to 25% of applications are approved. with costs of up to eur 200 000 per application, imagine the money wasted in europe with each participation in an eu call for tenders. what kind of europe is this, where companies no longer want to participate in tendering procedures because they have to submit two annual reports for routine contracts? the commission has already done a great deal of work on this, and it will continue to do so and to change the important implementing rules, and i would also like to encourage and ask commissioner grybauskaitė to accept all the proposals of the european parliament, because we do not want the commission to be equated in europe with burdensome work, bureaucracy and loss of money. we want the commission to be seen in europe as a service institution for all those who want to implement and support european policies. the most important amendments will be put to the vote by roll call tomorrow. commissioner grybauskaitė has already announced that she will take on some of them. i'd like to introduce a few more. a database is intended to notify applicants, saving multiple submissions and thus time and money in the application process. we also want decisions by the commission instead of large contracts. this can shorten the process and save expense, especially for small sums. our main point is that the commission should in future support applicants in the procedure. this is a cultural revolution, but it will do everyone good, especially the reputation of the european union. we are aiming for predictability, reliability and legal certainty, and for more flexibility you have an amendment which aims at the limited transferability of commitment appropriations which would otherwise lapse. i shall table an oral amendment tomorrow which does not specify the amount but at any rate refers to a maximum amount. the negotiations will depend on the financial perspective. i appeal to the council not to leave things as they are. what is the council doing with procedures which make it impossible for money to flow, when at the same time the organizations from the member states are losing so much money in the process? this parliament has recognized that we cannot continue in this way, especially since the complex bureaucratic procedures do not even achieve the objective of protecting community funds in a particular way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the member states, the financial regulation is a simple text for administration, because it has to be applied on a daily basis. the eu budgetary system must not be one of the most complicated arrangements the administration has devised for its own self-management. the european parliament will also continue to consider this matter. i want to thank you all again for your cooperation and i hope for your support tomorrow. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are all deeply concerned by the events in the middle east and our group deeply regrets that the president of the palestinian authority, mahmoud abbas, cannot speak here today before the european parliament. the group chairmen, on your suggestion, mr president, decided to invite mr mahmoud abbas here because he is a figure of moderation for us, a figure of balance and peace. that is why we are deeply concerned that he cannot speak here today. mr president, you have described the circumstances. you're really at a loss in a situation like this. i warn you not to jump to conclusions now. we must be prudent and we must not further intensify the spiral of violence. but we must demand an investigation into the storming of the police prison in jericho. we need an answer as to why this has happened, and we need convincing answers, if there can be any answer at all. because i warn against jumping to conclusions, it's good to remember the principles in an hour like this. we are standing up for a state of israel within secure borders, but we are also standing up for a state of palestine within secure borders. the dignity of the israelis is the same as that of the palestinians, and the dignity of the palestinians is the same as that of the israelis. i am convinced that despite the images we have seen on television, the majority of people in both israel and palestine want to live in peace. we want to encourage everyone to take this path of understanding. we call on all to stop the violence, to release the hostages - whether they are europeans or non-europeans - because human dignity is for everyone. i hope that the european union will succeed in contributing to peace in this region by adopting an objective, fair and non-partisan position. the european parliament has always been a party to the peace process. we hope very much, mr president, that what you have said will bring about the very rapid return of the palestinian authority president, mr mahmoud abbas, to his speech here in the european parliament. this is our sincere wish. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i agree with what mr poettering has said, and in particular with what you have said, mr president. we all regret the events of the last few hours. we regret above all that mahmoud abbas cannot speak to us now. we regret it not because of us, but because he could have come. the fact that he was here, that he was able to address this parliament, that he was able to accept our invitation, was an encouraging sign, especially that we are able to welcome the elected president of the palestinians. we are thus providing a framework which will lead us - as mr poettering has just said - to work together, step by step, towards the creation of a palestinian state, by giving mr abbas what he deserves, namely to be the head of a state which represents his country in the region as an equal partner on the basis of full sovereignty. that must be the target. and any little piece of it that you can contribute peacefully is a good deed. it would have been good if mahmoud abbas could have gotten that frame. it's been postponed. we say 'postponed' because we hope that mr abbas will be able to come here as soon as possible. but as regards the events of the last few hours in jericho, we as a group - i discussed this with my colleagues who were there as election observers in the last few weeks last night and this morning - have to ask the question that always applies in international politics to such actions: who benefits from what? who benefits from what's going on? of course, this is a matter of speculation, and speculation is not the answer. but i would like to ask three questions. the first question is, does storming this prison actually benefit anyone? the answers we are getting from the israeli media at the moment are not enough. i find it incongruous that a state whose services are capable of targeted killing needs to storm a prison when it comes to the potential release of prisoners held there. there are certainly ways to prevent that without storming the prison. the second question is: why this action, when international observers were monitoring this prison under an international agreement? why was this international link not maintained? why wasn't it used? thirdly, i hope that there are no internal political reasons in israel which have led to this action. it would be fatal if the real cause were to be internal political events which are to take place in march. we would deeply regret that, because it does no one any good. it may bring a short-term success to the interior, but long-term damage to the entire region. (applause from the centre)
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am not in favour of the motion for a resolution. this is one of those moments where there is a high degree of uncertainty, not knowing how to proceed, and therefore worrying that this may be the starting point of a bad development, after many years of hoping that with the beginning of the oslo process, there would be an agreement at this key point in world politics. president abbas, who was elected directly by his fellow palestinians and therefore has the legitimacy, seemed to be in a role of mediator between those who are in favour of non-violence and recognition of israel's right to exist and hamas, which does not yet recognise it but won an election, so that hamas can be brought forward. i fear that today it will become clear that this role is lost and that it is not known who else can fill it. the jericho operation is a significant, emotional event which is causing difficulties on the palestinian side. but with the withdrawal of the international observers from the united states and the united kingdom, i fear even more that the quartet will lose its credibility as a stabilizer and guarantor of security. i'm afraid there's a lot more to it than that. on the other hand, the fatah action in gaza has shown that those who were in favour of non-violence under abbas's leadership are now taking on a new role after losing the elections and leaving the frying pan. and on the other hand, hamas is not there yet. some who were in favour of nonviolence are running away from nonviolence, and others have not yet reached nonviolence. that seems to me to be the current situation. president abbas and the quartet have lost credibility in trying to put things right. that's the picture i have today. i hope that this description of the situation proves to be wrong in our interest. (applause from the centre)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council next week comes at an important time. we are now seeing the first encouraging signs of a strengthening of consumer confidence in europe: investment is picking up, growth figures are gradually improving. that's good news. let us take advantage of this favourable economic environment to make a new leap forward towards our goal of growth and employment. let's go to higher gear. last year we proposed a thorough review of the way economic policy is conducted in europe. we agreed to work together in a partnership. we've divided up the responsibilities. we've refocused our strategy and our concerns on the essentials. your assembly has given massive support to this new approach, and i would like to congratulate parliament on the role it is playing in this regard. in its report to the spring council, the commission proposes a number of priority actions for growth and employment. i do not wish to go into detail on all the specific measures we propose to take, but i will highlight a few issues which seem to me particularly important today. i am pleased to see that 25 national reform programmes have been adopted. they set out how each member state intends to translate the jointly agreed guidelines for growth and employment into the reality of its national specificities. the commission has also been able to provide a number of examples of the way in which the european parliament has been able to play a role in the process of reform. let's get this straight. this is only the first step, and everyone knows that relations do not create jobs. it is now a question of seeing the political will, the determination to implement precisely these intentions. that is why this year it is time to put words into action. in the coming months, the commission will work closely with the member states to help implement and monitor their national programmes. i am very grateful to parliament for the role it has played in this. joint parliamentary sessions between the european parliament and representatives of national parliaments on the lisbon strategy have made a significant contribution to raising awareness among national parliamentarians of the issues and encouraging them to be involved in the process. it is true, however, ladies and gentlemen, that there is still work to be done in terms of national ownership of this new strategy for growth and employment. in the framework of the partnership, member states learn from each other's experience. everyone has something to offer, everyone has something to learn, but i cannot stress enough that we need action not only at the level of the commission, the council and the european parliament, but also to engage positively with national parliaments, the social partners, national parties - and not just european parties - and european public opinion. this is a prerequisite for the success of our renewed strategy for growth and jobs. another important issue is the free movement of workers. i noted that in the resolution which parliament proposed to close this debate, it asked, and i quote, 'the member states to achieve as soon as possible complete freedom of movement for citizens and workers in the european union, while taking determined action to promote the quality of work in all its aspects'. i fully endorse this proposal from the european parliament. the facts are right. a recent analysis by the commission clearly shows that the flow of workers from the central and eastern european member states to the 15 former member states has had, for the most part, positive effects. this is just one of the reasons why the commission welcomes the recent announcement - following the publication of our communication - by finland, portugal, spain, first, and now the netherlands, that they were joining ireland, the united kingdom and sweden in lifting restrictions on the free movement of workers in europe. i look forward to seeing other countries join them. (applause) in a globalised economy, no member state can afford to go it alone. this is not the time to be economically nationalistic. we cannot build the europe of tomorrow with nationalist rhetoric. (applause) defending your national champions in the short term usually leads to relegation to the second division in the long run. the most successful firms, having faced tough competition, will leave the national champions behind when they enter international markets. let us be clear, ladies and gentlemen, what we need is not national champions, but world champions based in europe, making the most of our internal market. (applause) let there be no misunderstanding, though. the commission will exercise its prerogatives if undertakings abuse their dominant position on the market. the commission is legally obliged to ensure that competition rules are applied and to protect the consumer. she's fully committed to this duty. the challenge of globalisation calls for a strengthening of the internal market. freedom to provide services is an essential element of the internal market, and we have already said that the services sector, on the one hand, and small and mediumsized enterprises, on the other, are the most relevant drivers today for employment in europe. i want to thank you for the result of parliament's first reading of the services directive. you came forward with amendments generally based on a broad consensus which can now move us forward. the commission will respond positively to your consensus. early next month we will present an amended proposal, which will be largely based on this first reading and the discussions in the council. we know that the austrian presidency will be working on the council's common position shortly thereafter. i hope that this legislation can then be adopted swiftly, as we need to make progress in this area if we are serious about growth and jobs. (applause) the energy challenges of the 21st century require a strong and effective response. after a long period of relative stability, we can no longer take secure and affordable energy supplies for granted. increased import dependence, higher energy prices and climate change are challenges shared by all european union member states. only a european response, based on sustainability, competitiveness and security, can deal with the magnitude of these challenges. in the commission's green paper we have highlighted six key actions. we must create a truly single european electricity and gas market. we must achieve better integration. with better integration comes more solidarity between the member states in times of crisis. we must accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy, using both new energies and existing ones to ensure sustainability. we must change not just energy supply but energy demand. there is considerable scope to use energy more efficiently to the benefit of the climate, consumers and our security. europe is at the leading edge of the development of low-carbon technologies. we must stay there. we need more european innovation for renewables and everything that concerns environmentally friendly technologies. last but not least, we must foster a more coherent and integrated approach in our relations with third countries and in international fora. i sometimes hear people say that a european energy policy is not feasible because it touches areas where member states have national strategic interests. i do not need to remind you that the very basis of the european community was in fact a common european policy on coal and steel, the two areas which were considered the most sensitive in terms of the national strategic interest of the member states at that time. it is exactly because energy is strategic that we need a european strategy and not 25 national strategies. that is precisely the reason why we need that strategy. (applause) the green paper invites everyone to contribute to this important debate. i am very encouraged by the good reaction our green paper has received and by the very committed support of the austrian presidency, and i look forward to strong support from the european parliament for this new european union strategy. i also want to stress the need for social cohesion to be considered an integral part of the growth and jobs creation strategy. the commission is keenly aware of the need to ensure high-quality jobs and avoid precarious working conditions. i believe that globalisation offers major opportunities, but we cannot and should not ignore the pressure on companies and workers resulting from fierce international competition. that is why the commission has proposed a european globalisation adjustment fund. that fund will act as a shock absorber to the powerful engine of globalization. it will complement member states' efforts to help get the affected workers back on their feet again. the important thing is to get people retrained and back on the job ladder in a sustainable way. we need to involve social partners in our discussions on jobs and labour markets. europe's economic future depends on having the best educated and trained people, with a full range of skills and the adaptability required for a knowledge economy. that is why we must boost investment in higher education significantly. the commission suggests a target of 2% of gdp by 2010. at the same time, we must boost europe's research and development spending to 3% of gdp by 2010. that means more ambitious national targets and more ambitious measures to achieve them. we have some excellent universities and research centres which will really benefit from more funding. however, our systems are fragmented. there is a gap between higher education and research on the one hand, and companies and the economy on the other. they do not appear to be connected. too many of our top brains are leaving europe. that is why the commission, in search of excellence, has proposed a european institute of technology. a european institute of technology would complement other measures; it would use the resources made available by its participating partners and do so more effectively for their benefit and for the benefit of the entire european union economy. it is an ambitious project. i will be asking the heads of state and government to endorse this idea and i am asking parliament for support. airbus and galileo have shown us the importance of successful european flagships. the eit should be the next one; it is a symbol of a european purpose, but it is not just a symbol: it adds value to our collective efforts in terms of research, education and innovation. i am also aware of the need to do more in this area and i believe that this can be a clear commitment now for this knowledge triangle. in short, more commitment to europe will bring more prosperity and freedom to our citizens. i warmly thank you for your support so well expressed in your motion for a resolution. next week the european council must show a similar commitment to growth and jobs. the time has now come for delivery, not of more words but of action. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! lisbon stands for growth, employment and thus, in essence, the competitiveness of the european union's economy, and i am also pleased with the personal commitment of the president of the commission and with the fact that he is making this a priority for his commission. i thank you, mr president of the commission, for saying that a return to economic nationalism or - some people would like to describe it positively - economic patriotism would be the decline of the european economy and would make us in no way competitive in the face of globalisation on a world scale. (applause from the centre) that's why i appreciate the fighting spirit. i would like to ask you to say the same to the council at the meeting of heads of state or government. mr winkler, we appreciate your presence here, but if the president of the commission is here, it would be appropriate for the presidency of the council to be represented by a minister of a similarly high rank. we must also think about this. i would like to express my respect for you, but the institutions must also be equally represented in such debates. i say this regardless of party affiliation. it is about the institutions of the european union. the european parliament gives high priority to the lisbon process, which is an ongoing process and not limited to the year 2010. that is why we have set up the steering group chaired by our colleague, joseph daul. i am glad that the three largest groups - yes, perhaps the others will join us one day, francis wurtz - are making this a core part of their work, and of course the greens, who are not here at the moment, and perhaps some others ... (protest statements).... yes, the chairmen are not here, so you should be glad that i am paying so much attention to your chairman. the single market, the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital, is the prerequisite for the european union to be competitive on world markets. i call on the heads of state and government and on the governments to follow the example of parliament's efforts to introduce the services directive. i say to governments: if you think you want to achieve something else, you are destroying this compromise of the services directive. i therefore urge governments to follow the example of the european parliament. i also welcome - it is not my job to do so, but i am pleased as chairman of the epp-ed group - that one of the chairmen of the greens is now also here. we shall be creating europe together, mr cohn-bendit. we need entrepreneurship in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of information centres. entrepreneurship means creating jobs. we need a positive perspective here. we welcome, mr president of the commission, the fact that you have proposed the creation of a european institute of technology. this should not mean the creation of a new major university authority, but a network between the various existing european technological institutes, so that we can add value and that europe can really become a world leader in innovation and research. you mentioned galileo, you mentioned airbus. we need new projects, and in that respect we support your ideas. i have no 15 minutes like the council and the commission. we must also think, mr president, about how we can achieve a better balance. i would urge the european parliament to work closely with the national parliaments on these issues too, because it is our common task - national and european - to make europe competitive and to develop the european union economically and in general in a positive way. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the lisbon process, when it was launched, was the first real, and in my view very well thought-out, attempt to provide a european response to the challenges of globalisation. the approach taken in lisbon was that we can only survive in the long term in intercontinental competition and remain competitive with competitors on other continents if we become the strongest knowledge-based society and economy in the world - but at a european level. it was the right move. but what has happened since then? those who have decided to take this step cannot decide whether they want to take it at european level or at national level. they are torn between the message 'we can only survive in this competition as europeans', which is right, or the message in their own country 'well, in principle we are strong enough as a government to do it ourselves', which is of course more popular with the voters. the result is that there is not enough investment in the lisbon process at european or national level. this is the balance after six years! (applause from the centre) mr president of the commission, i am grateful for what you have said, but i am also sorry that you are not saying something. there are huge gaps between what you have described today, namely the need for a commitment - including a commitment to fiscal policy - and what is actually happening. you and your commission have outlined what is needed to finance the eu for the next seven years, and the council has agreed on a financial basis. but there is a gap of 40.82% between what you are asking for and what the council has decided! the council has decided on a figure 40.82% lower for the financial perspective than you requested. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if you keep producing different building blocks, you cannot build a beautiful house. you can't even build a breakwater with that. you can't even build a ski hut in arlberg am lech with that money. or vice versa, lech am arlberg, where you can sing sailors' songs in the evening. welcome to the valley, mr. president. the race is over. (cheers and applause) the financial perspective trilogue which we are about to witness in the next few days and the summit which will follow it will once again make this contradiction clear: the trilogue is run by the shopkeepers who scrape together the last euro so that it cannot be given to europe. (applause from the centre) and three days later, the heads of state and government meet and again declare the importance of the lisbon summit, the importance of the lisbon objectives. this is precisely what is holding europe back, namely that there is no coherent, consistent approach to the lisbon process! we have tried in the european parliament to achieve a combination of what is necessary for flexibility in europe and what is indispensable for social cohesion. because they're both part of the same thing. if you want to take the population with you - yes, mr winkler, you are right - if you want people to go with you, you have to describe globalization as an opportunity, but you also have to reduce the risk that globalization will always be used to break down social standards. we have tried to say in the services directive, flexibility where necessary and possible, yes, but with social cohesion preserved. and so i assume that the european parliament's decision for the commission and the council will be the basis for further consultation on the services directive. i can only warn you to deviate from it! you have given your promise, and i heard from you today, mr president-in-office, that you are keeping that promise. we will also ensure that this is respected. you can be sure of that! if we are talking about the future of the lisbon process, there is already enough paper to go around. what we need is investment in research and training so that the best of us do not run off to other continents. what we need is investment in lifelong learning. if a good qualification is a prerequisite for access to the labour market, then lifelong learning is a fundamental right to guarantee access to the labour market for every man and woman. the president of the federal republic of germany made clear yesterday the wishes of young men and women in europe by using the example of erasmus. however, erasmus is one of the items in the financial perspective which has been cut the most by the council. so, once again, there is no coherence in the lisbon process. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. my group has found over time that the lisbon strategy is no longer the strategy defined at the beginning of this very interesting process. this was made very clear in mr winkler's speech. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the fact that the goal of sustainability, of social justice, as formulated in gothenburg, should be part of this strategy has been completely neglected. i am afraid that - after the discussions i have seen in the lisbon coordination structure, including what we have developed as a motion for a resolution, which we are voting on today - there is a risk that parliament will no longer be prepared to follow this ambitious strategy of actually linking sustainability and growth. how do i get it? there is no willingness to discuss important instruments that would guarantee success. we have tried to discuss tax policy in this coordination structure. if we are not prepared to tackle a uniform corporate taxation within the union, how are we to get out of the negative location competition? if you are not prepared to talk about environmental taxes, how can you then enforce sustainability from the state? there is no willingness among colleagues to use the term tax at all. they're afraid of scaring the citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us take an important recent example: energy policy. mr verheugen, mr barroso, if you are not prepared to integrate transport policy into your energy policy strategies, if you are not prepared to put resource conservation and efficiency at the heart of the strategies, but to rely once again on the extension of the life of nuclear power stations, then you will fail. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used in a fair and efficient manner. look at the countries with high nuclear power. is electricity cheap in france and germany? no, it's expensive i would like to ask you, mr barroso, to trust the proposals made by neelie kroes last week. the market does not currently apply to energy. we need to decouple energy production and distribution, decouple production and the grid. mrs kroes has said very rightly that we will only have a chance against the energy giants politically if we actually win the market against the energy giants. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one year after the mid-term review of the lisbon agenda, it is time to ask again where europe stands. the answer to this question is, unfortunately, sobering: after the political shock of the 'no' vote on the constitution, there is now the threat of economic paralysis. lisbon is about to become a fairground attraction, the famous lady without a belly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the idea that we can achieve more lisbon, more competitiveness with less single market, is either a loss of reality or a deception. europe's economic success over the last fifty years has been based on the four freedoms of the single market. three of these are critically endangered. it started two years ago with the restriction of labour mobility from eu member states in eastern europe by germany, austria and others. but it now appears that countries which have not intervened in the mobility of workers, such as the uk, report positive experiences. the free movement of capital: italy prohibits the acquisition of holdings in italian credit institutions, poland opposes the merger of unicredit and hbv, the french and spanish oppose the takeover of domestic energy suppliers. this is particularly ironic, because it is in the energy sector that a european approach is needed. we have to be very careful not to let the commission and the council get involved in this. the commission's clarity on this issue is very welcome. it is hoped that the council will follow its recommendations. the third freedom - that of services - is also in danger. the dilution of the services directive by germany, belgium and france means nothing more than that the division of labour in this field is being maintained. transposed to the goods market, this would mean that renault, for example, would only be allowed to export its cars to germany if they cost exactly the same as a volkswagen in germany. and what should we think of škoda? workers in mladá boleslav earn less than their colleagues who assemble audis or citroëns. is this also social dumping? in the logic of the trade union argument on the services directive, demands for punitive tariffs on industrial products from member states with lower wage levels are only a matter of time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. lisbon is not an end in itself, the single market is not an end in itself. europe needs new growth, more growth, in its own continental core, to give a new perspective to the millions of unemployed. it is a political, social and ultimately a moral obligation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are obliged to them, to the weakest members of our society, and we must make lisbon a success. the same is true of the elderly. parliament's resolution stresses the importance of demographic developments; the elderly of today and tomorrow also need our attention. we need growth to stabilise our social systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to take this opportunity to thank my co-rapporteur, robert goebbels, very warmly for the good cooperation in the steering group. we have succeeded in producing a draft for the plenary and the conference of presidents in the steering group, which is the logical continuation of what we did here last year when we discussed the mid-term review. parliament continues to support the commission's strategy in principle. in particular, we have repeatedly made it clear that growth and employment are the preconditions for achieving the other main objectives of the lisbon strategy in the way we want to. parliament also took part in the priorities. we have three main points in our resolution: the subject of demography, energy policy and innovation. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht. the main problem we have is not the strategic approach. the strategic approach is right. our problem is the execution at the end. very practical and very clear: the most negative example, in my view, is always the european council's approach to this subject. he then decides on a good strategy, good content, then he holds a press conference, he presents it, and the result is that it gets reported. the next day or a few days later, the ecofin council will meet the finance ministers and will take back what has been decided by the european council. this is a fundamental strategic problem and i do not know how we can deal with it. this contributes significantly to the perception of european politics as partly dishonest and to the growing despair of citizens towards europe. the summit must make it clear that we cannot measure with two different standards, but that we must also translate the strategic guidelines into concrete policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we would like to expressly point out that we expect an independent factor to be included in the impact assessment of the legislation in order to really get a neutral result. this is also part of the better regulation issue. this call is addressed to the commission.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, the lisbon strategy targets of creating 20 million jobs, an average annual increase in gross domestic product of 3% and an increase in research and development expenditure of 3% are correct, but, mr lehne, the problem is not the setting of the target, the problem is actually the strategy with which to achieve it. let's look at the realities of today: we are at an average of 1.5% economic growth, we have only created about a quarter of the new jobs we hoped for, and those are very low paid jobs. that's the basic problem. this course has been going on for six years. the guidelines recently adopted and now being implemented in the national plans bear this very signature. look at this: productivity gains are exploding in all the member states of the european union! what about the pay raises? they're staying at the same level! how do you propose to boost domestic demand? it is always done as if social benefits were something negative for an economy. they're not! you're a good thing! high wages ultimately also bring economic growth! but that requires a political rethink. what we do not need is permanent liberalization, privatization. we need competition. but we need competition for high social standards, for high environmental standards. we need to understand that the goods we produce must be produced in accordance with international labour standards. we need this! we have a chance then to actually bring the lisbon strategy to the goal we want to achieve. and not by permanently cutting social benefits to give companies even more freedom. this is the wrong way! (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank commissioner verheugen very much for the speech he has just made. it was an excellent speech. i was listening in on the headphones. if i had not used the headphones, mr president, i would have been unable to understand the speech, even though there are speakers. (applause from the centre) it is also pointless, in your own courtesy, to say to the microphone in your own language that the colleagues should take their seats. they don't understand unless they have a translation. you'd have to swing the hammer to get them to sit down. i would like to make a request to our own house as a colleague: i do not think it is acceptable that we do not have the least amount of courtesy in listening to speakers here! (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. i would ask you to amend the second part of the amendment so that the number mentioned there is removed and replaced by a placeholder.
the rapporteur. i would ask the president to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution in accordance with rule 53 (1).
in writing. the enthusiasm of the hazan report, which was adopted by a large majority in the european parliament today, with regard to the european arrest warrant is totally incomprehensible. the council also expressly recommends that the judge executing the european arrest warrant should not be required to carry out a systematic review of compliance with fundamental rights. the main aim is to eliminate judicial controls. this decision continues the anti-fundamentalist course of europe. the principle of mutual recognition of judicial and extrajudicial decisions, and the absence of uniform standards, will leave fundamental rights in the european union in the lurch. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the accused are respected. there is no indication in the report that national transpositions of the european arrest warrant have been rejected by the constitutional courts, as in germany, simply because they are contrary to fundamental rights. on the contrary, it also calls on the member states to 'take the necessary measures without delay to remove constitutional or legal obstacles to the application of the european arrest warrant to their nationals'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the cottigny report after the epp-led motions received a sufficient majority, which contain my proposals to the employment committee. the restructuring of enterprises is differentiated. on the one hand, companies are being moved to cheap foreign locations, which is causing different business cultures to clash. the synergies often announced are lost and the employees, including those in management, are left behind. on the other hand, restructuring is necessary whenever there is a need to respond to new markets, customer proximity and improved competitiveness. to better prepare eu workers for the necessary mobility, they need adequate support for continuing training and retraining, as well as integration into live-long learning programmes. the restructuring aid, which must be consistent with the lisbon objectives, should primarily benefit smes. in order to assess the legality of support, it is necessary to facilitate the traceability of funds in order to recover funds wrongly withdrawn. the current structural funds are not enough, so i welcome the planned special fund of 500 million euro per year for retraining and professional re-entry, as a sign of our solidarity. however, its criteria must be discussed, since it is only available for transfers to non-eu countries and redundancies of more than 1,000 employees per company. its management must not lead to new bureaucracy at the eu commission and national authorities.
in writing. it is scandalous that exactly 20 years after the chernobyl accident, two thirds of the members of the european parliament voted in favour of the continued use of nuclear energy in the resolution on the lisbon strategy. nuclear power remains a risky technology with unpredictable consequences. the whole cycle of nuclear energy use violates fundamental rights and irreversibly degrades the living conditions of future generations: uranium mining is associated with massive depletion of natural resources and radioactive contamination of groundwater. enriched uranium can also be used to produce nuclear weapons-grade material. it is not really possible to separate the 'civilian' use of nuclear energy from the military use. the normal operation of nuclear reactors also involves a permanent danger (low-level radiation, the risk of contamination of the fluids used to cool nuclear reactors, etc.). large areas of land and seas are repeatedly contaminated by radioactive waste from reprocessing plants. the disposal and final storage of the daily accumulation of highly radioactive nuclear waste, which will remain radioactive for at least 10,000 years, is still unresolved. the €3.1 billion allocated to nuclear research under the eu's seventh framework programme for research (2007-2011) is double that of the previous framework programme. instead of investing in nuclear technologies, the eu should be expanding renewable energy even more. only decentralised supply from renewable energy sources can ensure energy security in the long term.
member of the commission. mr president, in the western balkans the eu can really make a difference. this was discussed at the foreign ministers’ ‘gymnich’ meeting in salzburg. the region is at the crossroads and the eu will guide it down the peaceful and reformist path. we have seen many positive developments in recent years, but we should not be lulled into a false sense of security. this year the remaining status issues, kosovo and montenegro, must be solved with patience and determination. we must also move the region beyond the era of war. we must thus clear the way for progress on issues that really matter to the citizens of the region: economic and social development and bringing the countries into the european mainstream. how can we best encourage the countries to stick to an ambitious reform agenda? most importantly, we must stick to our commitment that the countries can make progress towards the eu with membership as the ultimate goal, once they have managed to meet the rigorous accession criteria. moreover, we must strive to make this perspective concrete and tangible, as the commission has done in its recent communication. let me mention a few examples of our concrete objectives and proposals. firstly, we should remove obstacles to trade, production and investment. the commission, together with the stability pact and the countries concerned, is pursuing the creation of a regional free trade agreement, which would replace the existing patchwork of 31 bilateral free trade agreements. this may be attained through a simultaneous enlargement and modernisation of cefta, on which there will be a cefta summit meeting in april in bucharest. secondly, we should ‘europeanise’ the next generation – or why not the current generation? that is why we have proposed increasing the mobility of researchers and students by increasing the number of scholarships provided for them. thirdly, we need to facilitate people-to-people contacts. we shall put forward measures on visa facilitation, and i trust that the member states will move them quickly forward through the council, so that we can start negotiations on visa facilitation and readmission agreements. let me underline the fact that the more the countries in the region can do to ensure border controls and document security, the easier it will be to convince the eu member states to make progress on visa facilitation. i am glad that the eu’s foreign ministers in salzburg last weekend endorsed these practical measures and, even though she is not present today, i want to pay particular tribute to mrs plassnik and her personal commitment to ensuring progress in the western balkans. finally, i must say a few words about the death of slobodan milosevic. when we received the news of his death at the end of the gymnich meeting, my immediate reaction was to remember my visit to srebrenica last july, at the tenth commemoration of the most appalling massacre in post-war europe. i regret that milosevic died before justice could be served for the hundreds of thousands of victims of the crimes for which he was indicted. in his memoirs, chancellor kohl writes that each generation must work for a necessary consciousness of history to avoid repeating our mistakes and to ensure that ‘the voices of victims are heard’. these are very wise words. the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia is putting on record evidence that will help the serbs of current and future generations to understand that many crimes were committed in the name of serbia, while certain individuals were responsible for these crimes. the death of milosevic makes it even more important for the hague tribunal to complete its work and for the remaining indictees to be transferred there. this will help serbia to close the tragic chapter of history over which milosevic presided and to come to terms with the legacy of its past. today serbia is truly at the crossroads and i sincerely hope that the leaders and people of serbia have the will and wisdom to choose the european future instead of the nationalist past. the country now truly holds its future in its own hands. we can help the serbs to make the right choice by keeping the european prospect open for them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a debate with the council has been announced. you just said the council hasn't arrived yet. but i think we should wait for the council, because we want to hear a report on the salzburg summit and then discuss it. there is no point in discussing this and then hearing the report. these are meaningless rituals.
member of the commission. mr president, due to the fact that speaking time for the commission is tight for this debate and it would be impossible to report on such a wide scope of issues, covering all external affairs, all global issues, it was agreed that mrs ferrero-waldner would deal with iran and palestine and the cartoon crisis when she speaks later this evening. that is why i have concentrated on policies relating to the western balkans. this is how the commission’s contribution will be allocated, meaning that after the debate i will respond regarding the western balkans and mrs ferrero-waldner will respond on the other issues later this evening.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr deckard has described the situation. let us now discuss the report by elmar brok on enlargement and then do everything else when mrs plassnik is here. i ask you to do so. otherwise we are unfair to the commissioner and we are not in the right position in the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a suggestion to make. we can of course interrupt if the absent presidency of the council invites us for coffee in the meantime. (cheers and applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask you, if you have any information, when the council will arrive. because if what i hear is true, that it's only a quarter of an hour, then we could wait a quarter of an hour, because a quarter of an hour late we have been here many times. so i would suggest that if the council is in 15 minutes, we pause for that long. if he comes in an hour, we'll have to think of something else. we don't have any information, so maybe you do.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i apologize for being late. we've just had two traffic accidents, one on the way to the airport in vienna and one on the way from entzheim to you. i am grateful for the opportunity to report on our informal meeting of foreign ministers, the gymnich format meeting, which we held this weekend in salzburg. the main topics covered were two: firstly, the current foreign policy challenges we are facing, in particular developments in the middle east and the prospects for the forthcoming elections in belarus and ukraine. the second day was then devoted to the balkans, the thessaloniki agenda, its implementation and its future. i would like to begin by addressing the middle east and then the balkans. the middle east: we are in a transitional period after the elections to the palestinian legislative council and before the elections in israel. and in this transition phase, we are sending a very clear and consistent message to the future palestinian government. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these principles are very clear. they are in three parts: a call for the renunciation of violence, a call for the negotiation of the existing agreements and recognition of israel's right to exist. we are developing our policy on this clear and consistent basis. on this basis we have also made an appeal to our partners in the middle east. it will be necessary for hamas to take particular note of this juncture and to make decisions about the future course. she needs to make clear what course she's taking. we have made the conditions clear and nothing has changed in those conditions. we are continuing to support the palestinian people, and we also discussed in gymnich what financial support might look like in the future. it is clear that such support must be for the benefit of the palestinian people and not be used for terror and violence. we are therefore following developments very closely, as well as the work on the composition and programme of the future palestinian government. president mahmoud abbas and his delegation were in vienna yesterday. we had the opportunity to discuss this subject with him. we support him and the interim government in this difficult period, and if i have the opportunity later to comment more closely on current events, i shall be very happy to do so. the balkans: as you know, this has been and is a particular concern of the austrian presidency. i therefore see the gymnich meeting and the work on this subject as a signal of encouragement, indeed a double signal of encouragement, to the people of the western balkans: the often arduous path to europe for them to meet european standards is worthwhile. it is a path which we are supporting with benevolent support. but it is also a signal of encouragement to our own people that it is very possible to achieve solutions to difficult, even the most difficult, questions. it was therefore a sign of hope and confidence to me that we had succeeded in making the salzburg declaration a confirmation and a visible expression of the european perspective of the balkan states. because in times of expansion fatigue, it was important to send that signal and to provide our partners with a predictable environment. because 2006 is the year when the hardest decisions are facing us. the list of guests at our salzburg meeting has made it very clear to us how demanding the road ahead is this year. we had the opportunity to speak with president martti ahtisaari, the un representative for the future of kosovo, and his deputy, albert rohan, who was also a member of the european parliament's delegation to the european union. we also invited christian schwarz-schilling, the high commissioner for bosnia and herzegovina. we had with us søren jensen-petersen, the head of unmik in his delegation, and the successor of ibrahim rugova, the kosovar president fatmir sejdiu. i was also pleased to see that we had a first in this segment of our salzburg meeting, in that the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, mr elmar brok, was with us and took part in our discussions. the balkans are in the middle of europe, and without the balkans, european unity will remain fragmented. we know that the road ahead is a very challenging one, but we are determined to walk it. we are determined to proceed step by step, from the working method, to work on each issue individually, to find solution by solution. the work on european standards is actually the central issue for each of these countries. i had the bosnian prime minister in vienna yesterday and he told me that the decisive factor was not a date, a specific moment in time, but that the decisive factor was working together on european standards. javier solana, who has been following developments for a long time, described what has been achieved since thessaloniki 2003 as a success story, which can be read on the agenda, and that is on the salzburg agenda. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the issue of visas has been of concern to us because we have to deal with the expectations that the people of these countries have placed on us. on the other hand, we must make clear where our options lie and together, step by step, seek solutions to the open problems, also in this delicate area. europe is making a difference in this region, there is no question about that. we have also stressed the responsibility of the countries concerned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have stressed the need for regional cooperation, particularly with regard to the work on a regional free trade area. i am very grateful to the commission and particularly to mr rehn for their commitment. the council and the commission are really working hand in hand and side by side here in the best sense of the word. i thank the commission for its communication at the end of january and i thank it for its willingness to continue to work together now to implement the objectives set out in the salzburg declaration. the specialised ministers, the individual ministers in the national governments, must also continue to work, because they will have to tackle specific problems in a network with the partners from the balkan countries. the ministers of the interior in particular are very involved and bear a great deal of responsibility. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we also discussed the issue of receptivity and incorporated it into our considerations. i myself made this demand more clearly known to all of us in the autumn of last year, and i think it was right. it is not a question of creating an additional obstacle, but of making us more aware of something that is basically a matter of course, namely that homework should not always be required of the candidate but should of course also apply to the european union. we have had a depressing experience together in this joint session, in this moment, when we were all gathered around a large table in salzburg, but it has also given us confidence. the death of slobodan milošević came as news in the middle of our deliberations, and it was a european symbolism to be able to work together at that moment on our common future in this europe. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. we were happy to interrupt the meeting to wait for you because we are extremely concerned and want to discuss this with you. the austrian presidency has started with the thessaloniki ii project. the salzburg declaration does not mention any of this. there is no longer any prospect of membership for the western balkans either. this declaration is a formulaic compromise, a formulaic compromise which is being listened to critically in the balkans and which was not a signal of encouragement, at most a signal of misinterpretation. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. if europe is to be credible, we must maintain the european perspective for the balkans not only in words but also in deeds, and i support commissioner olli rehn in his statements. let me conclude by saying something, mr brok: a third way was tried by the libyan leader gaddafi in the 1980s. he suffered a miserable defeat, thankfully, and so will you.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. let me make a few remarks on the areas which do not concern the enlargement countries, because i shall deal with them in my report. i would just like to say a few words about the middle east. it is not only the events of the last two days, but also the developments of the last weeks and months that are creating ever greater difficulties. the situation in the holy land itself, on both sides, at this hour, and the question of the chances of preventing iran from pursuing a military nuclear programme. and if there is a possible circle here - iran, syria, an agreement in lebanon with hezbollah on all sides and contacts with hamas - then there is a great danger of a connection which is extremely problematic and to which we must find a response, not only to safeguard peace and combat terrorism but also to ensure energy security. i thank you, madam president-in-office, for allowing me to be part of the debate. in addition to the hard political facts to be negotiated here, we must also make it clear that the dialogue of cultures is really taking place, so that the fundamentalists do not succeed in preventing a majority of the moderates, which still exists in all regions. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i would be very interested to know whether there is a definite mandate in terms of content, time and space and whether there is a formal invitation from the congolese authorities for such an action in which the european union is involved. it is of the utmost importance for decision-making here and elsewhere to have clarity on how the presidency of the council and the high representative are working to organise this mandate.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council! i would like to endorse what annemie neyts-uyttebroeck has said in recent days about my group's attitude to israeli policy. i would also like to comment on what you said about this important transition. at this stage, the eu should send a clear message and point to the principles of cooperation, namely non-violence, recognition of existing agreements and recognition of israel's right to exist. this is incredibly important and the eu must not deviate from it. that is why i think it is a big mistake for the eu to continue to provide financial support to the transitional government. the eu should provide humanitarian aid to the palestinian territories, it should help the people there, but not support the authorities there. the fact is that hamas has not recognized israel's right to exist, nor has it renounced violence, and the signal is fatal. hamas has reiterated that it sees the eu's decision to continue the payments as a sign of acceptance of its policies. it still refuses to negotiate with israel because it does not recognize israel's right to exist. the eu's support is intended to promote the peace process. but if you give financial support to those who have declared war on the peace process, then that is wrong. the eu must continue on its present course and must not abandon its main bargaining chip, financial aid. that is why i ask you to review it again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i congratulate you on the historic achievement in luxembourg, which paved the way for croatia, the only country in central europe, other than switzerland, which is not yet a member of the eu, to join. the same applies to the overdue debate on the frontiers of europe, which you have started there with great courage. secondly, i thank you for your clear support in salzburg for the prospect of accession for the other countries of south-eastern europe. i believe, in fact, that we must not waver here. it must be clear that the countries of south-eastern europe are clearly european countries which have a right, once all the criteria are met - including the enlargement criterion for ourselves - to become full members of the european union. thirdly, i would like to say that in palestine - i disagree with mrs koch-mehrin - we must not only provide humanitarian aid but also, which is admittedly difficult, help for pluralism. the fatah state was corrupt and dubious. but a hamas state would be even more dubious! we must support the peace process and pluralism by all means, so that an iranian zone of influence from the gulf to the mediterranean does not emerge. fourth, iran, the world's oldest superpower next to china, is not a monolithic bloc. that is why we must combine toughness with a certain diplomatic intensity. we must not stop counting on talks here too, however unacceptable the current president of the country may be. iran is more than its president. it is one of the oldest countries in the world and we europeans must do everything we can to strengthen the forces of pluralism here too and to prevent a monolithic aggressive development.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the enlargement of the european union has been the most successful part of its foreign policy to date. the european union has been a tool for further advancing the area of stability and peace in europe and the areas of peace, freedom, human rights and the rule of law. this is an important point to bear in mind today and in the future. but we must also recognize that the objective of stability can only be achieved if the european union has the strength to develop in such a way that it can meet the challenges that this entails. that is why, for example, the constitutional treaty was subsequently tried to make enlargement with ten member states really possible in institutional terms and in terms of objectives. and here we are in a difficult situation because the ratification process is not moving forward. we must also note that the copenhagen criteria include the ability of the european union to host as one of the main points, but for good reasons it has hitherto been a mere declamation. at such an interface - towards bulgaria and romania - we must, however, make this point operational and redefine it. we therefore ask the commission to define the absorptive capacity of the european union in this context by the end of the year so that we can use this as an instrument. this is extremely important, because it is not only a constitutional question, but also a question of the financial capacity of the european union and much more. i also think that we must make the european union's capacity to absorb so clear that it can also be a yes or no at the end of the day. the european perspective is of great importance not only for countries which are already in accession negotiations, which have candidate status or which have been promised a prospect of accession after thessaloniki - a promise which, incidentally, should not be withdrawn in order to make this clear once again and to eliminate previous misunderstandings - as an incentive for internal reforms, but also for other countries such as ukraine, countries which are still under dictatorships in europe today and must also have such a prospect in order to secure their view towards the west. the neighbourhood policy alone is not enough. in some cases, the countries or the european union are currently overwhelmed to link this with the prospect of full membership alone, because in many cases it can only be realised in fifteen years. we need something in between to give credibility to this project, something which will give these countries a perspective without putting us under the unrealizable pressure of immediate full membership. this should be open to all countries which are not members of the european union today. i would like to repeat explicitly once again: this can be the final stage if countries such as norway, which is also a member of schengen, decide to do so within the framework of the european economic area. there is a lot that can be done in the areas of the internal market, internal and external security, environmental policy and more in such a multilateral project - if i may use the working title 'european economic area plus' once - . it can also be a stopover. if countries which have an accession perspective today after thessaloniki - such as the countries of the western balkans with different development prospects in terms of time expectations - should decide to say, 'we are using this as an intermediate step towards full membership', the thessaloniki promise will not be overridden. on this basis we can create a new level of flexibility by giving credibility to this perspective, because something can happen immediately and not be negotiated for 15 years and then there is a yes or no in the room. i see that in some countries enlargement is accompanied by referendums and we do not know whether ratification will succeed in the end. that is to say, it is also an attempt not just to pursue an all-or-nothing strategy but to create opportunities to give these countries credible prospects and at the same time to save and advance the european union as a political project. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council! as the chairman of the delegation for south-eastern europe, i fully support the statements and demands of the brok report on each country. each has its own problems and should be judged by its own successes. it would therefore be highly desirable that croatia be considered for early accession. this would be an important stabilising signal for the whole region, especially since croatia is already nowhere near the next two candidate countries, politically or economically. i would like to conclude by addressing one point, hidden in the brok report, which is more prominent in the media, namely the changes to the enlargement strategy which have been suggested. the question 'where are the eu's borders?' is one that no one can answer. mr rehn himself said earlier that there should be an answer to that. and that's what's scaring the citizens. for me personally, the borders of the european union have been reached with the accession of bulgaria, romania and the western balkans. for all other countries, we have devised the new instrument of the neighbourhood policy and we must tackle it. the hasty negotiations with turkey have done more than add to the uncertainty and disorientation of our citizens. for ten years we have been saying: no enlargement without institutional reforms of the eu! but it was only after the last enlargement that the council really did justice to this. and we have all been punished for this by the referendums in france and the netherlands. but to conclude from this that no more recordings are allowed would be fatal. we must urgently acquire the necessary instruments, which were given to us in the constitutional treaty, and thus restore our capacity to absorb. if we do not want to jeopardise our great commitment to the balkans, we must continue to move towards closer ties with the eu in a consistent and targeted manner. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and the rapporteur for his report. all these countries were rightly promised eu membership if they met the criteria. this was and is an important motor for change after the terrible conflicts in the former yugoslavia and under the dictatorship of enver hoxha in albania. a simple glance at the map will show anyone with any sense that this region is in the middle of the eu. stability there ensures stability with us. the opposite is what we all learned in the 1990s. i am afraid that some europeans - and i am sorry to say, madam president of the council, that the vague and vague statements made in salzburg also prove this - are about to let the countries of south-eastern europe down for a second time. that is exactly what we cannot allow!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the change of perspective proposed in the brok report. the debate can no longer be about which country we would prefer to have in the european union, but we must finally ask ourselves what kind of political system the european union can afford to have in order to be able to take decisions and act. that is the key question to be asked. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the concept of reception capacity is included in the copenhagen criteria but is not defined. in my view, this includes at least the political institutional arrangements as contained in the constitutional treaty. commissioner, i have listened carefully. correct me if i'm wrong, but i haven't heard from you about this. the decision, which is an important criterion of acceptability, is the possible source of disagreement between us and the commission. the important criteria include the future financing of the european union and the acceptance of the european union by its citizens. when the credibility issue is raised, it is in line with that credibility and the criteria which can reasonably be applied to admissibility that no other country can be admitted for the foreseeable future after bulgaria and romania. credibility is not just the promise to take people in someday, it's also the conditions under which it's possible. this also means that we have to clarify terms such as enlargement or accession prospects. we must be very clear that the belief that accession will solve tensions and internal security problems is a misconception. these tensions and problems must be resolved before accession negotiations can be opened.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the report calls for the geographical boundaries of the european union to be defined and for the nature of the european union to be defined. some christian democrats, but also some social democrats, have been looking for alternatives to membership of the european union. i would remind my colleagues that a few years ago political scientists and analysts could not have imagined that the iron curtain would one day fall. but he fell, and we're glad of it! i would appeal to the honourable members to refrain from making any assertions about what the european union will look like in twenty, thirty or forty years' time - after the active phase of politics for most of us. i think it is a good thing for us all, given that most of us have been wrong about what will happen in 1989. the second point i would like to make is that everyone has stressed the need to implement the ankara protocol. you're right! but then it should also be said that turkey and the north of the island of cyprus are in favour of a solution. we made promises, too. the old saying 'pacta sunt servanda' applies, which means that the isolation of the north of the island must be ended, as promised by the european union. mr brok, i would like helmut kohl not only to appear in the history books but also to play a part in european politics within the cdu once in a while.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. when we discuss enlargement, we are basically discussing our understanding of the european union. is it an instrumental understanding or an original political understanding that we have of it? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it in the near future. the brok report is positive in that it really brings about a change of perspective in favour of the second option. we politicians are generally told that we cannot praise. but helmut kuhne of the spd has just spoken here on the basis of an excellent paper which the german social democrats have adopted. the most outstanding thing is that it defines the position of the spd on enlargement. bulgaria and romania are decidedly 'yes'! but we must consider disconnecting the countries if the benefits require it. it is not the instruments that are decisive, but the results. there may be an outcome in the negotiations with turkey that is not full membership. and now a key phrase: 'we will no longer tolerate the gradual relaxation of the accession criteria', say the german social democrats. we german free democrats agree with that one hundred percent. the capacity is also defined. the cardinal problem here is that the fundamental consent of the people in the member states is part of the european union's capacity to receive. i think this is absolutely crucial if we are to involve the citizens. if we want to keep them as loyal citizens of the union, we must take their wishes into account!
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is a debate which will naturally be very much dominated by the commission's statements. i would imagine that the members present would be particularly interested in hearing the commission. i would therefore like to limit myself to a few remarks on behalf of the council, because we are convinced that the commission has a great responsibility in applying the new rules and in applying the eu competition rules in order to achieve the objectives of competition policy in line with the lisbon objectives. the sectoral studies which the commission is already working on and intends to deepen are an essential basis for this, and the question of market definition is not insignificant. it should be borne in mind that merger decisions also take account of medium and longterm aspects. economics is dynamic, not static. companies are therefore faced with the daily challenge of preparing for the future and remaining competitive. there are more than 23 million businesses in the european union. every day new businesses are being set up, others are being closed down. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. competitiveness therefore also has a significant impact on the labour market and requires effective competition. competition in the internal market must not be distorted. this is one of the essential foundations for the success of the european economy. the completion of the internal market and economic and monetary union, the enlargement of the european union and the reduction of barriers to international trade and investment will continue to lead to major corporate reorganisations, including in the form of mergers. such reorganisations are welcome insofar as they are in line with the requirements of dynamic competition and are likely to increase the competitiveness of european industry by improving the conditions for growth and raising the standard of living in the community. this is in line with the lisbon objectives we have discussed today. the subject under discussion is currently being discussed in the light of recent examples of concentration, particularly in the energy sector. for citizens and consumers, this is particularly about price developments, which are negatively affected by a lack of competition, but also about considerations regarding the safeguarding of jobs. it is clear to consumers that unjustified price increases can only be avoided if there is sufficient competition. it is also clear that only competitive firms can ensure the long-term preservation of jobs. in this context, a pan-european competition policy must be pursued intensively in the light of the four fundamental freedoms. competition policy also requires that a reorganisation or concentration must not result in lasting harm to competition. as you know, community law therefore contains provisions on these concentrations which are liable to impede effective competition in the common market or in a substantial part of it. i would like to say again that we are convinced that the commission will take the right steps and act responsibly. the rule of law and therefore the predictability of decisions are also essential for the european economic area. this will require further work on the more economic-based approach. if, after an evaluation phase, it appears that the legal framework in merger law needs to be supplemented in this respect, the council will also address this. it is also clear that not every case design can be cast into schemes, but a certain level of abstraction is required. the presidency also expects the commission to exercise the greatest possible discretion, for example in defining markets and identifying efficiencies, in the light of the commission's decisions currently pending.
member of the commission. mr president, europe thrives on breaking down barriers between member states, not on erecting them. open and competitive markets are key drivers for growth and jobs in europe. companies that are successful players in the european market are also well placed to compete globally. the commission will always look with concern at any attempt by national governments, directly or indirectly, to interfere unduly in the process of cross-border corporate restructuring in europe. the treaty enshrines the principle that there should be no unjustified impediment to the fundamental freedoms it establishes – in particular the free movement of capital – or to the right of establishment within it. fundamental to these rights is the freedom for companies to re-structure, including by change of ownership. to deny this possibility to companies as a matter of principle or by failing to implement correctly the provisions of the ec sectoral legislation introducing competition in the markets – such as energy, telecoms and financial services – would amount to a serious restriction of their ability to adapt to the challenges presented by the integration of markets in the eu, to the rapid advances in technology which many industries are experiencing, and generally to the evolving dynamics of doing business in the europe of today. european industry is rising to these challenges, including by the appearance of an increasing number of cross-border european businesses. whilst the effects of individual mergers must be assessed on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the relevant competition rules, mergers between companies based in different member states are likely to increase competition in the member state concerned, thereby contributing to the realisation of concrete benefits for european consumers in the form of lower prices and wider choice. take the energy sector as an example. the green paper published by the commission last week was very clear. sustainable, competitive and secure energy will not be achieved without open and competitive energy markets, based on competition between companies looking to become europe-wide competitors rather than dominant national players. open markets will strengthen europe and allow it to tackle its problems. at the same time, the process of cross-border corporate restructuring enhances the competitiveness of european businesses by equipping it to succeed in global markets. any interference in this process by national governments which is not justified by legitimate interest as provided for in the treaties, secondary legislation or jurisprudence, risks being seriously damaging to europe’s prospects of benefiting from the opportunities presented by market integration and globalisation. the commission, as you know, has two principal legal instruments at its disposal – the single market rules in the ec treaty and article 21 of the ec merger regulation – for addressing undue interference by national authorities in relation to corporate restructuring. it has the duty to enforce these rules accordingly wherever appropriate. as guardian of the ec treaty, and as the institution responsible for merger control on competition grounds at the european level, the commission is determined to guarantee that companies can effectively benefit from the advantages of the eu’s internal market. that is why enforcement of these provisions is, and will remain, one of the commission’s central priorities.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the single market is being tested. in the energy sector in particular, it can be described as being in danger. the promotion of national champions has the effect of creating national monopolies. national monopolies do not mean competition. but that also means that there will be no competition in the european single market. all of this is bad for the consumer. european energy companies also have the problem that if they are not competitive in europe, they are consequently not competitive internationally. this is also worsening the situation in europe. the situation is also worsening for all other companies, because they have to pay the high energy prices and thus also lose international competitiveness. i believe that, although i strongly support the efforts of the commission and in particular the commissioner on this issue, the commission's possibilities are simply limited by nature. the commission's intention to introduce competition law instruments is to apply the famous two-thirds rule of merger law in the energy sector, with the result that the commission has little room for manoeuvre. i know that mrs kroes is thinking of changing that, but that requires unanimity in the council, and i do not think that in the present situation it is possible to achieve such unanimity. it is therefore crucial that the council also address this problem. governments can be expected to follow the spirit of the treaties and european law. the consequence is that we want to have a single market, particularly in the energy sector. i therefore expect the council to look into this matter. i would like to make a comment on the right of takeover: in the last few days we have read in the newspapers that the european right of takeover is supposedly promoting this development. i think that's not accurate. we can expect the member states to implement the right of takeover. this is a business-to-business relationship. it has nothing to do with political influence. political influence is not covered by decisions of the acquis at european level. it's about not doing it and stopping it. it is crucial that this issue is raised openly in the council and that an appeal is made to all those responsible in the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. did you know that yogurt is a matter of national interest? this was the argument of a large founding country when it came to the question of whether it should take over danone, even though danone makes most of its sales and profits abroad. we are having an amazing discussion. everyone is in favour of their companies going on a buying tour in europe and the world. but not in your own country! who in spain complained when telefónica took over the german-british company o2 or banco de santander a major british financial services company? who was upset that france wanted to buy an italian bank or that electricité de france wanted to join enbw or that in italy unicredito was buying hypo-vereinsbank, although in return abn-amro had problems when it wanted to move to italy? we are witnessing a great deal of hypocrisy on the part of the member states and the council: they are locking themselves away at home and want to do business elsewhere. and we are weakening the european economy. it is a fallacy to believe that national protectionism will help us achieve the lisbon objectives and more, when we cannot compete even in our own sector. we need strong companies, and we need companies that go to other countries and compete there. the commission is required at two levels. it must clearly examine whether mergers are in the consumer's interest. will this increase competition? the commission's main task is to examine this matter, and this is often confirmed and sometimes denied. the commission must take a firm stance against the council, because confidence in the member states and the council to think european, to think in the internal market, has suffered greatly in recent years.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. when we talked about the un reform summit at the end of september last year, one of the few real successes we could count on was that the discredited commission on human rights should be replaced by a new human rights council. the only thing that was not clear was what the composition of the committee would be and what the procedures would be. it would have been a serious defeat for the cause of human rights, and indeed for the united nations, if we had failed to replace this discredited commission with a new human rights council in good time. that is why today's vote is an important success of the long negotiations, including those of president eliasson. we congratulate him on that, because there are really improvements. the fact is that the members of this new human rights council must now be elected by secret ballot, that is, by at least 96 states. members of the human rights council can be expelled again by a two-thirds majority if they commit serious human rights violations. it must be held at least three times a year. there is now more continuity in the work, and there is a regular review of the human rights situation in all un member states. that's five major accomplishments. that is why i found it incomprehensible that the united states should try to block this. mr winkler, these were not only positive demands from the united states, but also a demand that the five members of the security council should remain privileged, that they should remain on the human rights council, so to speak, without being elected. this would have been a grave mistake, considering the human rights situation in the people's republic of china. it is good that this has been voted on today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to join my predecessors in this. it is important that this decision is made so that this human rights council is not an unborn child. the protection of human rights in the classical sense is one of the cornerstones of our european values, which will be strengthened by the creation of this new body. the proposal adopted is not optimal, but it is a marked improvement on the commission on human rights, which was still influenced by states which had committed the worst human rights violations. it's an important step for human rights in the world. a functioning body will be able to intervene more quickly in urgent cases and must commit states to advocating, fighting for and promoting human rights. the blockade would have undermined the credibility of the international community in the fight against human rights violations. so it's very good that this project didn't fail. this is also in view of the important work of the many ngos.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i am pleased that you are representing the commission in the debate on this report today. your colleague, mrs fischer boel, cannot be present at this meeting. but that should not prevent us from having a good discussion. you have said that this is not the beginning of a legislative debate, but that we are responding to a request from the wto. this legislative quality assurance was introduced 14 years ago, in 1992. but of course, commissioner, this was not the beginning of quality production in the areas which were then protected, but the question of the products under discussion has been put on the market by producers for a long time and for decades, and has been accepted by consumers, similarly to organic farming. then it was harmonized, it was streamlined, there was a clarification and a safeguard. we have only two areas in agriculture which are quality-oriented when it comes to quality policy. this is the area we are discussing today, and it is organic farming. everything else is food safety. but here we express quality and put the focus on it. you mentioned earlier that this is not a small business, but a billion dollar business. here, in the regions and in the holdings, real added value can be created by the protection granted to them for these geographical or designations of origin or specialties. the higher value added that results from this is understandable, but it also arouses desires. on the one hand, we have the conflict with the united states in particular - and when i say the united states, i mean the big multinationals - which are looking very carefully to see whether they can take over as trademarks in their empire what is now protected here as designations of origin. like coca cola, they want to include feta cheese, parmesan, spruce cucumbers, carlsbad oblats, thuringian roasted sausage, but also tyrolean bacon - both austrian and south tyrolean bacon - in their brands, not because they find it particularly attractive, but because it is worthwhile. that is why they have entered into the wto dispute, and we are now reacting to that. the good thing about the debate is that the wto has said, first of all, that its rules and ours are in line. what is not in conformity or where improvements need to be made is the question of access by third countries to these protected quality names. we're gonna make up for it here, and i think that's reasonable. but let me also point out that there is another lust in this question. if we are producing, for example, parmesan or tyrolean bacon, we might well think: if we buy the pigs on the general market now, they are cheaper than if we have to produce them locally or require special treatment in the regions from which we obtain them, because that of course leads to an increase in the cost of production. but if we do not do this, we run the risk of being caught up in international disputes and wto discussions - the multinationals will not give up for a long time - and of being left to our own devices, of undermining our own quality labels and eventually losing protection. then it was a damn dubious deal, if you think you could buy the raw materials cheaper. that is why we have established and intend to establish that there must be a special relationship between the regions. i would like to say a few words about the procedure. you know, commissioner, that the council has already decided. we are discussing this again, even though everything has been decided, and that is not acceptable. you'll have to wait for the discussion. i hope that we can make this clear in the constitution once it is passed. we have been thinking about whether we should not refer the matter back to committee out of pure anger because we have been put on the back burner again and you have shown no regard for our qualified work. we believe that we would then be demonstrating our disagreement in the wto procedure to the outside world and others might say: 'ah, they don't even agree on themselves. we are in favour of strengthening and securing the eu's position. we therefore leave it at that, but we would like to make it clear on a few points where the council is showing weaknesses and ask you as commissioner to convey that too so that you can reconsider your decisions. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank my colleagues and i would like to pass on some of this praise to my staff. mr mulder, i was delighted to hear your contribution. we'll be content-consistent for a while, but i'm also glad you're praising my commitment. we're both old bones now, and we've been in business a long time, and it's still our business. we have not grown weary of fighting for what we believe is right. if you object to the fact that there are only two quality labels, i object to that as much as you do. we need to expand that. we need to provide not only security in the sense that someone does not fall over when they eat something, but also to value the enjoyment, the quality, the origin and the effort of the generations. this combination of free market economy and quality assurance is exactly what we need. market orientation yes, but please also with recognition of what is being done here. if you ask me earlier whether this is not just an administrative matter, i have to answer that no, it is not an administrative matter, but it has been created over generations and is now being safeguarded by legislation and administration. it's not like we're being forced to do something. if there were no benefits here, we would not have a dispute in the wto. the multinationals, of course, are keenly aware of the added value created here, and this is considerable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. there must be no neglect here. that is part of the information we can provide from the european parliament. i shall also come to the question of cooperation with mrs lulling. she may not be old, but she's older than any of us. anyone who's worked with her knows that's not always easy. it's not just about red, black and green, it's about the person lulling. but at least we have managed to table joint amendments in some areas. i want to mention one very important one. the council has accepted, for good reason, that any natural or legal person having a legitimate interest may cancel such registrations of designations of origin and special quality indications. because when it comes to added value, there will naturally be a desire to convert it into brands. to show that we are not trading here, we have submitted a joint application. i ask the commission to make sure that the council takes it over. if such a protected name is deleted, it cannot be trademarked for five years, so that we can have some leeway here, so that it becomes a little more expensive for those who want to trademark it and who offer something to the people or the regions. we have to be very careful. i hope you will continue to do so. thank you for having such a good discussion here today.
member of the commission. mr president, the rapporteur has received flowers from quite a number of honourable members and, on behalf of the commission, i should like to add a couple of flowers to the bouquet. thank you again for the interesting exchange of views. let me comment on some of the points raised during this debate. as a general comment – mr graefe zu baringdorf and mr castiglione touched upon this point – i should like to stress again that with these proposals the commission wants to bring our legislation into conformity with the findings of the wto panels. this includes numerous aspects of the procedure and elements of simplification, so the system can support the implementation of the wto findings. that was a point mentioned by mr allister and, in my opinion, it addresses his concerns. in response to mr mulder, i reiterate the intention of the commission to further review the various policy issues not related to the wto findings and the wider issue of the agricultural quality policy in the ec over the next year. i have learnt a lot this evening, including the point mr mulder made about edam cheese. i should explain to mr mulder that edam is a type of cheese that can be produced anywhere. it is a codex standard. however, north holland edam is protected, and that is a dutch quality product. so eat more edam from north holland! let me comment in more detail on the exchange of views and address some of the issues you have raised. concerning the logos, the three logos established by commission rules are already different from one another. i also want to make it clear that any advantage given to ec producers – and i believe the use of a community symbol is such an advantage – will be equally open to third country producers. that answer is for mr castiglione and mrs herranz garcía. however, the commission agrees that this needs to be further explored. this will be done within the framework of the wider policy review, which the commission intends to conduct as soon as this proposal has been implemented. several amendments deal with the obligations of the member states and the commission, which mr podkański mentioned. the commission has no intention of altering the current distribution of competence between the member states and the commission. amendments 23 and 24 ask for a time period for the commission to scrutinise and publish applications. i agree that the commission should carry out its duties within a reasonable period of time. mrs lulling and mrs salinas garcía touched upon that. i agree that we should take into account the definition of a reasonable period of time, which is not easy, given the complexity of applications. it is certainly not realistic to have all the applications scrutinised and published in six months; twelve months would be more acceptable. your amendments on controls reflect the aim of the commission proposal, which is to ensure that there is a clear understanding that all over the ec there are authorities in charge of enforcing the community rules on geographical indications and traditional specialities. there is also no doubt that these controls will be carried out within the framework of regulation (ec) no 882/2004 on official controls performed to ensure the verification of compliance with feed and food law. there are points that concern only the geographical indications report that i want to mention. these are the use of ingredients in processed products and the origin of raw materials. i confirm that your proposals concerning the use of protected names in relation to ingredients for processed products meet some of the commission’s concerns. however, the general rules on labelling already cover cases of misleading information. further restrictions on the use of registered names for processed products would mean a major policy change that deserves to be adequately and thoroughly assessed. i took note of various amendments concerning the labelling of origin or other conditions applicable to raw materials. the commission shares mr graefe zu baringdorf’s objective that people should not be misled in this respect. however, we have to be very prudent. any policy change in this field may affect rights already granted to users of certain designations. finally, i shall make a few points on the tsg report. the current regulation on traditional specialities guaranteed has no definition for the term ‘traditional’. we propose to introduce the obligation to prove usage for a time period of at least 25 years. we believe that this is a good compromise. as a result, the commission can in principle accept the following amendments in the report on geographical indications: amendments 1, 10, 11, 15, 25, 29 and 31. of the last-minute amendments tabled for this part-session, the commission can in principle accept amendments 41, 43, 49 and 54. in the report on traditional specialities, it can accept amendments 6, 10, 13 and 16. the commission cannot accept the other amendments to these reports.
deputy writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i am simply representing mr gargani, who, as chairman of the legal affairs committee, is the author of this request. but it's an honor to do this. before i go into the details of the request, let me say a few words about the background. the subject of the professions, and in particular the legal professions, to which this question refers, has a history of several years. in the last parliamentary term, the european parliament addressed this issue in two oral questions in the relevant resolutions, first of all in the light of the activities of the directorate-general for the internal market, headed by mr monti, then commissioner responsible for competition law, and also in the light of the so-called vienna report, which is the outcome of this whole debate. i do not want to hide the fact that we in the legal affairs committee have always been convinced, to a large extent, and even across party lines, that this so-called vienna report was very one-sided in its approach, that it followed a one-sided economic approach and that it did not take sufficient account of the specific role of the professions, in particular the legal professions, as organs of the administration of justice. we also had the great fear - which was partly confirmed by the documents - that the commission had not always drawn the right conclusions from these documents of the vienna report and had deliberately pursued a policy in which we had doubts on certain issues as to whether this was the right way to go. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. they have a different origin, they have a different meaning for the functioning of society. the fact that we are now submitting a new oral question after the last interim report by commissioner kroes - and there will be an accompanying resolution next week - is a continuation of the tradition of the previous legislature. i want to make it very clear that it is, of course, perfectly clear from our point of view that old braids should be cut off. we are no longer in the middle ages, and the guild system is over. nevertheless, the specific features of the professions, and in particular the legal professions, which are the subject of the legal affairs committee, must of course be given special consideration. they're part of the justice system and they have to work. if this does not work, it is bad for the citizen. the citizens are not then afforded adequate legal protection, and an essential element of democracy, the rule of law, is also called into question. it is therefore necessary to examine very carefully and in great detail the regulations governing the professions and to consider carefully what is needed and what is necessary in order to ensure that legal protection and access to justice are as effective and as secure as possible for all citizens, and to do so in practice, taking of course into account in particular the case law of the european court of justice. i would like to come now to a specific problem which was of course raised in this question and which was the reason why we in the legal affairs committee wanted to deal with this issue again in the plenary today. this is the specific role of the fee system in the legal professions. these are of a very special and important nature in many member states of the european union, particularly when it comes to the question of reimbursement rules in court proceedings and when it comes to legal expenses insurance companies wanting to provide reimbursement for their clients on their own. this is not possible in practice without charging systems and is firmly and deeply rooted in the legal tradition of many member states, so that it should not be shaken without necessity, because this is also an essential aspect of consumer protection. this is something that should be made very clear at this point. the european court of justice has in the past dealt with these issues very carefully in its case law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is very important to us that this crucial issue, which is of great importance for the functioning of the legal professions in many member states, should not be dealt with by the commission in the manner that has been suggested by the commission's documents. the commission cannot treat the professions as it treats supermarkets. they have a very special meaning and role. we now have member states in the european union which have abolished fee systems. the interesting thing is that the prices for lawyers and for the ordinary consumer have increased and are sometimes considerably higher on average than in the member states which still have such a system, although this system has ensured that legal protection has remained affordable and accessible to the consumer, especially in terms of price developments. we would now be pleased if commissioner kroes, who has already had the opportunity to speak to us in committee on this matter, would answer our oral question on behalf of the commission. we will then have the opportunity to react to this in the debate and next week in the resolution.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the commission is not prepared to accept this. health policy is essentially a matter for the member states. there's a good reason for that. health systems are funded by contributions and taxes and are tailored to specific needs. the principle of subsidiarity also applies to health services and medical care. article 152 of the eu treaty requires member states to ensure a high level of health protection. the eu can also take action to support member states' policies. i sometimes get the impression that the commission and some of our colleagues would like to compete with national health policies. we have the same problem in health policy as in other areas: europe is sick of not being able to do the important things it should be doing. as a result, the eu is embracing many policy areas that should doubtless be better regulated by the member states and is diligently governing their affairs. this does not mean, of course, that europe should leave health policy alone. the eu must focus on things that have real european added value, and here i can directly echo what my predecessor said: europe should be involved above all in cross-border issues that a member state cannot tackle alone. improved information exchange and closer coordination in the field of control of epidemics and communicable diseases must be a top priority. the health risks posed by avian influenza demonstrate the urgent need for cross-border coordination of measures. this is also true of hiv and aids, a major problem, especially in the new member states, which is increasingly being forgotten and neglected as infection rates rise. the eu should give greater priority to the fight against diseases. my group has tabled amendments to this effect, and i would like to call for their adoption once again. the focus should be on the main public diseases, such as diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular diseases, which need to be the focus of eu action and scarce resources. we should not make it our business to make a shopping list. we have had a lot of discussion in the committee about which diseases and which disease controls should be given priority in the action programme. let us be consistent in our demands here. the parliament's december 2005 resolution on the work programme explicitly calls for action to combat diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular disease. the commission's proposal for an action programme was too general, too broad. it is time we set political priorities and focus on the most widespread diseases. i should like to turn briefly to the budget and the funding of ngos. my group supports the rapporteur's proposal to increase the budget for the action programme to eur 1.2 billion. if we are serious about the priorities we are setting for this programme, we will of course need the appropriate resources. patient associations and ngos are playing an increasingly important role, which justifies eu support for these organisations. but we must ensure that the funding of ngos is based on strict criteria and is transparent. it is not acceptable that some organisations - similar to those in the environmental field - should be considered so generous that they finance brussels offices of the eu commission as if they were subcontractors.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the green group is clearly in favour of an independent, well-equipped health programme. health is number one on the wish list of europeans, and we must today send a very clear signal that health policy is also a priority for us in the european parliament, in the european union. of course, the services and systems are national, but we must discuss the objectives of health policy across borders and together in europe. if a billion euros are spent on tobacco subsidies a year, then health policy must be worth the same amount to us. funding of ngos: as the green group we want to make it very clear that only ngos which are independent of industry are to be funded. unfortunately, we have a lot of ngos that are stretched out in front of the pharmaceutical industry's carts and are its mouthpiece, whose sole task is to advertise overpriced medicines. that is not our claim. we want to support independent ngos. and, mr krahmer, it is a contradiction to say that they should not receive state funds either. what else are they gonna get? should they really be funded and run on a leash by the pharmaceutical industry? we don't want that! of course, these ngos also need funding to carry out their public relations work. we are very keen to support complementary and alternative medicine. i am glad that some positive experiences have already been made with it. we have millions of people in the european union who have had very positive experiences with complementary and alternative medicine, not to mention environmental medicine. it is therefore discriminatory that the european union does not take account of this medicine, which does not even have a shadow existence. if the commission is serious about what it is saying in lisbon, that we are an innovation society, then we must take the knowledge and innovation of alternative and complementary medicine, develop it and make it available to people in the european union. this is really very important, and i think that the commission has put too much emphasis on the interests of the big pharmaceutical industry in its claim to blockbuster pharmaceuticals. this can't go on. we cannot be hiding behind industrial and pharmaceutical research here, but our aim must be to really bring innovation to the fore. complementary and alternative medicine must have its place. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore want to suggest once again to mr trakatellis that he accept our amendment as an addition, in which we state quite clearly that further work should be done in this area only in the postnatal area and only where therapies are available.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr trakatellis, for his excellent report and for the excellent cooperation he has given us. the three common core objectives of eu health and consumer protection policy are clearly and explicitly stated: to protect citizens from risks and hazards beyond their control and which cannot be effectively or fully addressed by individual member states. there's a very clear focus here. strengthening the decision-making capacity of citizens in relation to their health in this context, an initiative by the commission to reduce the restrictions on the information policy of the pharmaceutical industry is also to be commended. thirdly, the integration of health policy into the other community policies. in the field of health, this report introduces three new priority themes which relate to the new challenges of our time: the response to threats - here, for example, the epidemics which are now very clearly in front of us with bird flu. secondly, the prevention of diseases and behaviour patterns - here only smoking, obesity, addictive behaviour and lack of physical activity are examples. thirdly, the necessary cooperation between national health authorities, which certainly needs to be improved on many levels. i do not see subsidiarity being eroded here, but rather better cooperation, synergies and a strengthening of subsidiarity. i think that the separation of consumer protection from health protection is important and correct, since these are two policy areas based on different legal bases and therefore also within the community, which result in different powers of the union. personally, it's amazing to me what we're going to do with 1.5 billion in seven years. i hope that a large part of it will come true. let us remember that the federal republic of germany alone spends 180 billion euros a year on statutory social security. i agree with amendment no 64 on the extension of the financial framework. i think it's the minimum to do any meaningful work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it accounts for only about one fifth of tobacco subsidies. we cannot, of course, satisfy all the wishes of the citizens and institutions of europe in one framework programme. we have tried to do things as fairly and equitably as possible. i see a great opportunity here for us to put europe back into the public eye by working together in public relations.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i also thank mr antonio trakatellis very warmly for his excellent report. it is very difficult to ensure that all legitimate interests are taken into account, but at the same time to be strict. i regret, for example, that cancer is no longer a priority in the new health action programme. but, mr president, you are quite right in pointing out in your report that there must of course be sufficient funds for all the objectives we have set ourselves. we are far from that at present, not to mention that we are going to reject today the commission's proposal for a joint action programme on health and consumer protection as totally unacceptable. the citizens also want more, not less, protection from europe in health policy. among the priorities they identified for european policy, health policy ranks fourth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i cannot understand how the commission could have proposed such a low budgetary estimate, which the council has again rejected. so what we're trying to do here today is to address two cardinal flaws: we want two separate programs, and we want more money. i say this particularly to the council. the further reduction you want - if it were a reality - would mean that we would only have a third of the current financial resources for the future 27 member states. but that would mean that we could not in any way meet the areas of primary and secondary prevention of certain diseases, nor the urgent need for protection against the dangers of the disease risks associated with globalisation.
i am not going to go into detail. before the vote i would like to make an important statement to the conference of presidents. the statement refers to the arrest of opposition figures ahead of the presidential elections in belarus. on 16 march, the conference of presidents took note of the increasing number of opposition politicians, journalists and ngo activists being detained in belarus. the conference of presidents deplores these measures, which seriously undermine the democratic character of the elections and are contrary to all democratic principles. 17 names are now being followed. i beg your pardon for reading the 17 names. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the following persons are involved: the commission has also received a complaint from the polish authorities concerning the use of the term 'secondary' in the context of the 'secondary' procedure. the commission has also received a complaint from the polish authorities concerning the use of the term 'secondary' in the context of the 'secondary' procedure. the conference of presidents calls for the immediate release of these individuals. (loud and long applause) (parliament adopted the resolution)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have just heard from commissioner kyprianou that he is not prepared to agree to the committee's proposals on the distinction between health and consumer protection and that he is also not in agreement with what we are going to propose on the scope. it would therefore be very good if we could express the opinion of the european parliament on these questions by a clear, large and qualified majority. i therefore propose that we postpone this vote until march 2 and not this afternoon. (applause from the centre)
this is noted, but internal factional disputes are not discussed in the plenary. (applause from the centre)
we'll take that under advisement. but that is how we have been dealing with this in the european parliament for years.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the adoption of paragraph 43 means that amendment no 15 is obsolete. because paragraph 43 deals with the name macedonia, or the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, and we do not need another paragraph 43a on the same subject. that's why it's over.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
in writing. in a world of globalisation, standardisation and global access to food, a strong and solid foundation on which to build and develop is the reflection on our origins, our traditions and ultimately our culture. european tradition and european origin form a unity in diversity. and this diversity is what defines europe, its regions and, above all, its people. people have adapted to their regional conditions, which are very different. this has given rise to traditional ways of life and traditional products. we have very specific ideas and expectations about traditional and geographical indications. today, our products are traded all over the world. this, however, raises the need for regulation of these products, which go out into the world as 'ambassadors' of a city or region. we must ensure that what is behind a good name remains good. and we have to make sure that beyond the origin of the products from the region concerned, the reference to the name remains. all this must be regulated as simply as possible, but also effectively. this report fully reflects this objective.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i shall speak for two minutes on behalf of my group. i have been asked by my group to give an official explanation of vote on the brok report. press reports have given the impression in many parts of europe that the european parliament has backed away from its call for full membership for croatia as soon as possible, which it has voted on several times. you know that our group has been a strong advocate of opening accession negotiations with croatia and of bringing them to a successful conclusion before the european elections in 2009. i would like to say on behalf of my group that we are clearly committed to this objective and that the brok report also makes it quite clear that croatia is a candidate country which fulfils the criteria in a special way. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council and parliament. this is not the case. croatia is a central european country which should have been admitted to the european union as early as 2004 and which largely meets the criteria. what we are criticizing are details which are only criticized in a country which is relatively close to accession, whereas turkey does not even guarantee the abolition of torture. i would therefore like to make it clear once again on behalf of my group: croatia is a candidate country. it has to be judged by its performance. the european union must not be left to the mercy of the european parliament, which is the only institution in the world that can do so. (applause from the right)
the commission has already done so. i would like to stress once again, as many or almost all of my colleagues have done before me, that it is not sensible to confine consumer protection and public health to a single programme of action. we need two different action programmes, because there are many different issues being discussed and dealt with. i would like to say that consumer protection is very important and i would therefore ask you to pay particular attention to the fact that we are particularly good at supporting consumer protection organisations in the parliament's proposal, which i hope will be accepted. we have seen that there is a need to catch up, particularly in the new member states, and we want to ensure that consumers there as well as here - we have a need to catch up here too, it is not that we are always the best - get the highest possible common level of standards in terms of consumer protection. this is a very big concern for us. we must therefore ensure that consumer organisations have a good chance of being effective in the interests of the citizens. the consumer protection is what the citizens want, as they have repeatedly told us. we want a europe in which citizens, the people, are the centre of attention, a europe in which their rights are also respected. in this respect, my group is particularly concerned that we should have harmonised consumer protection legislation in the field of services of general economic interest. where, if not in water, postal services, gas or electricity and other areas, it is important to have minimum harmonisation measures to ensure a high level of rights in terms of access, safety, reliability, price, quality and choice and to maximise these protections. because these are the things our citizens care about, the things they need, the things they want.
a writer. the commission is not i note from the speeches that many of those who work on eastern europe have in mind the situation in belarus, which is becoming more acute every day. i would like to point out once again, since mrs ferrero-waldner is here, that her action vis-à-vis parliament in this matter was extremely unfortunate and constitutes a serious violation of the most basic rights of european parliamentarians. we know about the correspondence with mr klich, but it's not working! i have been dealing with belarus for 12 years and i can only say that the commission has never acted in the way it has. i'm just saying that in advance because she's here. the republic of moldova, by contrast, is governed by a communist party but is interested in closer relations with the eu and is an active partner - at least in my view - in the neighbourhood policy. the problem is quite different: it is east of the dniester river. fifteen years after the dissolution of the soviet union, russian troops are still present here, outside the territory of russia. the problem is precisely this: the stationing of russian troops and the violation of the integrity of the republic of moldova, this is the conflict we are dealing with. it's not an ethnic conflict. the problems can therefore, in my view, only be solved by a very strict dialogue between the eu and russia, namely by the ultimate demand for the complete withdrawal of the troops. this is also in the european interest, because it is the only way to ensure full control of the border. the regime that lives off these troops in transnistria can now become a democratic part of moldova. the country's poverty has clearly promoted trafficking in women, and therefore this must also be part of the neighbourhood policy towards moldova.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the only reason why the territory of present-day moldova will not become a member of the european union in the next year or two is that this country was forcibly separated from romania under the hitler-stalin pact. we must not forget this history. it is a deeply european country and we must make a concerted effort to achieve three objectives: first, the dismantling of the criminal and militaristic structure in transnistria by peaceful means. hitler was defeated, thank god, and had to give up his booty. the spoils of stalin were not freed until 1991, and today there are still forces in moscow keeping this dangerous structure alive. the second major task is the democratization of moldova with the rule of law and minority rights, and the third major task we have is the fight against crossborder crime. here i am very grateful to mr albert deß, as the representative of a border region in the upper palatinate, for urging us to fight together as the european union against drug trafficking, human trafficking and arms trafficking - as he is doing now in transnistria - in the interests of this beautiful country on the eastern edge of central europe, which must be integrated, otherwise it will become a sore between our future member state, romania, and ukraine, with which we have entered into a closer partnership since the orange revolution. the democratization process in this region, which is so important for our own destiny, will only succeed if this structure of military injustice finally gives way to a democracy based on the rule of law. this is our task as the european parliament, and i thank mr sonik and others for having pushed this debate through. the european parliament must send out clear signals in this respect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in short, mrs pleštinská said this afternoon that today in slovakia and in many other countries there are candles in the windows in solidarity with the opposition and the freedom movement in belarus. we have brought to the plenary a small symbolic candle, which is burning in the house of mrs pleštinská, in order not to raise a fire alarm, but to make it clear how strongly we are connected with the freedom movement in belarus. (applause from the centre)
a writer. the commission has already done so. the case of the former dictator of chad, hissène habré, should not be seen as an isolated case but rather in the african context, where impunity for former despots is still widespread. i am reminded of charles taylor from liberia or mengistu haile mariam from ethiopia. african dictators have ruled with the utmost violence, oppressed their own people and secured their positions of power through torture, murder and tyranny. but they also have in common that they have found refuge with impunity in other african countries and have not been held accountable anywhere. but this is precisely what we must no longer accept, because the victims and their families have long been fighting for a trial in which the despots must face up to their responsibilities. i therefore welcome the fact that substantial progress has been made in the case of hissène habré. in september 2005, a belgian judge issued an international arrest warrant, which led to hissène habré being placed under house arrest in senegal in november. however, senegal has stressed that hissène habré should be brought before an african court and that the decision should be taken by the african union. the commission has set up a panel at its last meeting in january which will report in july on what such a court should look like. the commission has already done so. i think there are several ways to bring hissène habré to justice. the most realistic option is to extradite him to belgium, as he could be tried quickly in a fair court in europe. the international criminal court could also take up the matter. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is not only a political force, but also a political force. it is now up to the african union to do everything possible to bring the hissène habré case to a close before a court of law. if, on the other hand, extradition to belgium is ruled out, the african union must present a detailed plan for an african court to deal with the matter as quickly as possible. i would be glad if a precedent were set and hissène habré were brought to justice. the numerous victims are demanding it.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the information you have given this house has provoked a lively reaction in our group today - as you can imagine. there is a colleague among the 200 members of the socialist group who is herself a victim of eta terrorism, whose husband was murdered by eta. i hope you will agree with me when i ask my colleague, mrs barbara dührkop dührkop, to say a few words on behalf of our group. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not what the honourable member, mrs dührkop, said at the end would have been my first sentence, namely that our thoughts today are with the men and women murdered by eta and their families. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia. in an hour like this, when we hope for a peaceful future for the whole of the basque country and the whole of the spanish nation, our thoughts turn to the world where people are killed by terrorism or where people are deprived of their liberty, as in these days in belarus, where the opposition is partly disappearing in prisons. it is our moral duty as freely elected members of the european parliament to speak out whenever the protection and dignity of human life is at stake. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to endorse the words of all the speakers who have gone before me and to thank mrs dührkop dührkop in particular. i want to make it clear that there is no single reason that justifies terrorism! it is important that all democratic parties, all citizens living in democracy and peace, say clearly: we do not want to accept terrorism in any way, we want to live differently, peacefully and in friendship with each other. every victim of terrorism is one too many. democracy and human rights are the values we all stand for. i hope that today's eta declaration will actually lead to a political and peaceful solution of the problems in spain. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 103 and rule 130 of the rules of procedure. article 130 deals with the agenda and article 103 deals with statements and proposals by the commission. i am referring, however, not to today's agenda, but to the agenda for the next partsession, and i would like to ask you the following: we have a debate and a resolution on the situation in belarus on the agenda for the next plenary session of the european parliament. i take this opportunity of the presence of the president of the commission and the vice-president of the commission, as well as other members of the commission, to ask the following: the situation in belarus is worrying. i believe that the european union cannot stand by and watch a dictator in europe shamelessly destroy democracy. the european union must therefore consider what measures it can take to show mr lukashenko his limits. i would therefore ask the commission today to put forward appropriate proposals on this item of the agenda for discussion at the next plenary session and to set out the measures which it - the commission - proposes or may propose to take against belarus and its current government and to strengthen the opposition there. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would therefore ask that this item be placed on the agenda of the next conference of presidents.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are situations where you have to communicate. you are certainly right in your interpretation of the rules of procedure, but we have another sitting tomorrow morning, and i would ask the ppe-de group to debate the situation in belarus here tomorrow in the house ... (long applause) to express our solidarity with the democrats in belarus.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree; our group agrees. we can discuss belarus here tomorrow morning, that's not a problem at all. but the hypocritical act you just played here, we have to discuss it with each other. if a group thinks that this issue should have been discussed here today or tomorrow, mr poettering, a telephone call would have been enough. i spoke to you on the telephone five minutes before the beginning of this sitting, and i have not heard a word from you on this subject. i have just asked that we discuss this in the next meeting, and then a colleague asked that we do so now. (disturbance) your democratic capacity is also reflected in your ability to listen! i'll be right with you. a colleague asked that we do it now, we can discuss it in peace. but to rehearse this uprising here as if you and only you were the defenders of the interests of belarus, we cannot participate in this. we can discuss this tomorrow, but not with your monkey show. (screaming and moaning)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. when i first came into the chamber - and i am only speaking because mr schulz has spoken to me - i thought to myself: this is the first sitting since i have been president of the group of the european people's party in which i do not have to speak. now it turns out that you made the statement on eta, and i reacted to it because others have come forward. when i spoke to mr schulz on his initiative five minutes ago, three minutes ago or five minutes ago, i do not remember exactly, i had not in mind at all that there was a discussion about belarus here today. if i had wanted to start this debate - i am playing with my cards open - i would have discussed it not only with mr schulz but also with mr watson, mr cohn-bendit, mr monica frassoni, mr wuertz, mr brian cawley, everyone. i came into this room without knowing about this debate, i heard the reaction of the colleagues, and i meant that i was offering my good will by suggesting that we debate tomorrow morning. i still think that's a good suggestion. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. when we talk about the commission's strategic programme, we must also ask ourselves: what role does the commission itself play in the implementation of this strategic planning? that is the question i want to address. we are in broad agreement with the substance of what you have said and written, mr president of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. i know. defining europe's role in the globalised world in terms of migration flows? i'll see you later. a central challenge! improving europe's energy supply, more energy efficiency, more energy security? unity in the whole house! the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i agree! the european union is a major player in the world economy. i agree! that's wonderful. that's great! we shall hear many speakers today saying: 'that's right! mr barroso is right, that is what we must do! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are negotiating with the council, and mrs grossetête is right, for a billion up or down. the courageous approach which you, mr president of the commission, and your commissioners have advocated in presenting your financial perspective has been cut by 200 billion at the european council. you asked for 1 022 billion for seven years, the council has decided on 840 billion. i wondered where the strategic cry of josé manuel barroso against such a false financial policy was. you said before this parliament: i am fighting for these strategic objectives with this financial allocation. and you said to parliament afterwards: the council's decision is a success. you can't help it, i understand that, because you're not getting any more money, at least not if we don't fight a little bit more for it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that is why i am not directing my criticism so much at you and your commission as at the partner on the other side. we will not achieve these strategic objectives if we define the objectives and fail to provide the necessary financial resources to the institutions that act. that's for sure! i would therefore say that the commission's strategic objectives are the right ones, but you must also deal with the individual countries! as president of the commission, you must call a spade a spade! you must go out with your commissioners in each case and say that you cannot propagandize: we are giving europol more power, we are fighting terrorism and crime more efficiently at european level. the highest level of support for a european issue among european citizens is, incidentally, the common fight against crime, more internal security. your strategic objectives are the right ones. but the commission must come into conflict with those heads of state or government, those ministers and councils of ministers who are not prepared to pay the price on monday for the speeches they made on sunday. that is what i expect from the commission. you can expect us to support your strategic objectives - you have identified the right strategic objectives - but we expect you to stand by us in the battle we are waging as a parliament with the heads of state and government for a bit more credibility in european politics. if we agree to this for 2007, it will be an exciting year and certainly a successful one for the european institutions. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! i do not want to talk about energy policy as such, but about the foreign and security policy measures that go along with it. given the fact that russia this winter - it seems - has turned energy into a political weapon, and given the situation in the middle east, we must see that the question of energy security is an extremely problematic issue, as we have not had for a long time. that is why we must work out and implement several things in closer cooperation between the committee on foreign affairs and, mr chichester, in your committee, such as the demand that russia finally put the energy charter into practice and ratify it, so that a secure energy supply is guaranteed. we must make it clear - perhaps through foreign policy measures, but also through our promotion of competition - that there is a difference in ownership between producers and those who take delivery, who own the pipelines, in order not to increase the possibility for example of gazprom not only to be the largest producer but also to control the supply chains and thus to be in a double trump position. i believe that we must work much more closely with ukraine and the south caucasus to modernise and build energy networks. in particular, however, i think we need a network within the european union, a network which is not directed against someone who is not 'energy nato', but which is an internal network, so that if someone wants to shut down a country, that country automatically gets supplies from all the other countries. then why isn't it shut down? because it would be too expensive for the supplier country, especially since it would then have no revenue at all. we must strive for a network of solidarity which is not directed against others - solidarity clauses, comparable to the nato treaty, i think, is the wrong way - and organize internal solidarity in practice through such networks. i would also like to say explicitly that the decision of the old german government to build this pipeline through the baltic sea, bypassing poland and the baltic states, was a wrong decision. as an example of such a network, we have to ensure that there are branches, for example to poland, to achieve safeguards in this way. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the baltic states are not left behind. this too must be resolved internally. we should discuss this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking mr winkler and mr piebalgs for their comments. i agree with you that it is absolutely necessary to have a truly common energy policy. the question cannot be whether, but how we can achieve a european energy policy that is consistent with the objectives of security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would have expected you to be a little more specific. (may i ask why the clock is not running, i cannot control my time.) they both supported the need for further expansion of renewable energy. i think that is a very good point. i would also have liked to have received more specific proposals. you know, we only have targets for 2010 at the moment. the commission has already set targets for electricity, biofuels and total energy. you also know that the european parliament has called for 20% for 2020. the commission's green paper asks whether new objectives should be set at all. if i am correctly informed, a new target of 15% by 2015 is currently being discussed in the council, which is clearly a step backwards. it is more important to really look now to achieve our target of 12% of total energy consumption from renewable sources by 2010. that is why it is very important and necessary that what you, commissioner piebalgs, announced in parliament happens, namely that a directive on heating and cooling from renewable energies is presented, because that is where the shortcomings lie. this is extremely important to promote security of supply. the example of germany makes it quite clear that germany's withdrawal from nuclear energy will require the replacement of 33 billion kilowatt hours by 2010. the current forecast is for 51 billion kilowatt hours of renewable energy to be produced by 2010. the commission has always been convinced that the real situation in the field of renewable energy sources has exceeded the forecasts. so to those who say that nuclear energy is very important, we have the chance to replace this energy source. we also have the need, because this energy is finite and we are totally dependent on imports for uranium. it is also extremely important to make use of energy efficiency. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have the impression that the new situation since the beginning of this year has made it clear to everyone that energy is not only important for economic development in europe. it's also becoming increasingly clear that we have energy scarcity and political dependencies that are emerging to a degree that obviously has not been seen before by a large part of society. but this crisis also offers a huge opportunity, which is that we can finally have a factual, sober discussion about energy issues and maybe come down from the trees, forget old battles from the day before yesterday or stop carrying beliefs in front of us. but that means - and here i have demand for a lot of what the commission has also put forward - that we simply take a sober stocktaking. what is the situation, what are the opportunities, what are the quantities, where are the quantities, where are the risks, where are the potentials? i am fairly certain that we will not find an answer where the solution lies in one way. it won't be like that anymore, and it never was. but we must try together to talk openly about all the issues and to seek solutions that are broad-based. we cannot - as the polish colleague has just said - do without the existing coal potential, that is out of the question. but we have to think about how we can use it in a clean way. but do not give up! we cannot do without potential in the renewable energy sector. but we also have to be honest and recognize that the potentials are limited and that they're not going to solve the problems of the crowds that we have. i think that is why we cannot avoid saying openly that we cannot do without nuclear energy either. it cannot be done by saying no coal, no nuclear energy, but please do everything co2-free and save the environment. i think we must put an end to this debate, which is shaped by dreams and beliefs. we need a debate that is realistic and sober. our children deserve to have energy in the future, and they deserve to have it in a sufficient form. this is an essential condition for prosperity in our countries in europe. i also think it is immoral for us to buy up all the energy potential in the world because we have the resources, and perhaps leave the countries that do not have these resources - i am talking about developing countries - at the end. we have a duty to use modern technology. we have a moral duty to use nuclear energy too.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. europe is too dependent on fossil fuels. the last few weeks have shown more clearly than ever that this cannot continue. for industry and private consumers, prices are rising dramatically. the security of supply is not really a given, and the climate-friendliness of our current energy supply is not guaranteed either. mrs. morgan has approached katrina. there are a number of other cyclones, and scientists tell us that this is most likely already an effect of climate change. that's why we need to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. i think three things are crucial. the first is nuclear energy: we should not shut down safe nuclear power plants for political reasons. i therefore call for the adoption of the epp amendment on this point. i regret that german chancellor merkel cannot say this in her speech tomorrow because we are in coalition with the social democrats, but i am glad that the social democrats here in the european parliament are beginning to rethink and perhaps in a year's time mrs merkel will be able to defend nuclear energy on behalf of the entire federal government. there are a number of other points that mrs merkel can support and that we can all support - and she will do so in her keynote speech at the summit tomorrow: we need energy efficiency. energy is being wasted in europe and we can no longer afford to do that. we need an efficient expansion of renewable energy. it is essential to increase the use of renewable energy, but we should do so without permanent subsidies. i would therefore like to refer again to the directive which the european parliament is calling for on heating and cooling. the potential here is very great, the cost is relatively low and that is why we should get down to business quickly. i support this resolution because it contains these demands and because we encourage the commission and the council to move more quickly on this.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in view of tomorrow's council and the fact that the heads of state and government will be dealing very intensively with the subject of energy tomorrow, this debate was of great importance today and i would also like to thank all the participants very warmly. i cannot comment on everything that has been said here - and there has been a lot of important things said - for time reasons. i would like to make a few final remarks. mr rübig rightly pointed out that there is a need for a comprehensive debate on this problem and that all areas of activity in the european union must deal with the subject of energy. the presidency is aware of this and is of course also cooperating with the commission, and i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner piebalgs very warmly for his cooperation from the very beginning. i think he was the first commissioner with whom we had a close working relationship and i would like to thank him very much for that. but the member states are also called upon to contribute to this, because only a joint effort will bring us to the goal of security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability, which must be the main priorities in european energy policy. europe should speak with a common energy policy voice to third countries. this was emphasized by several speakers. mr brunetta said so and mr brok, the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, said so. this is also a particularly important task and one to which we must devote ourselves. mr goebbels and commissioner piebalgs have also mentioned solidarity. solidarity is indeed a very important factor and the heads of state and government will make a commitment to this in their declaration and conclusions which they will adopt tomorrow. mr goebbels called for a politique énergique plus solidaire, and that is a good expression. mr turmes has already anticipated what the heads of state or government will say tomorrow. i have to admit, i don't know. maybe someone else has better information. but i can tell you this: the energy debate tomorrow has been well prepared, including by the energy ministers and the general affairs council. we do not know, of course, what the text will ultimately be, which will be adopted by the heads of state or government. but there will be very important things i can assume will be included. it will not be a commitment to national concerns at all, but a european energy policy will be decided tomorrow. that's all we can say for today. mrs ek mentioned the need to maintain competition. i would like to refer you first of all to the debate ten days ago in strasbourg, where i, on behalf of the council, together with the commissioner responsible for competition, stated very clearly that we are very much in favour of, and that we need to maintain, the rules of competition, especially in the field of energy. i would like to mention a small paragraph on the energy policy for europe. the paragraph dealing with exactly what you asked about points out that in fulfilling its main objectives, the energy policy for europe should ensure transparency and non-discriminatory markets; be consistent with competition rules; be consistent with public service obligations and fully respect member states' sovereignty over primary energy sources and choice of energy mix. much of that has been said here, and i can only confirm and sign it. mrs rothe has called for concrete targets for the development of renewable energy sources. i can only agree. the austrian presidency is very ambitious. but as this debate has shown, there is a great deal of disagreement. a coherent, consistent energy policy for europe cannot be built overnight. it is important that tomorrow the heads of state and government give an important impetus, and then the member states, the council and the commission build on these principles, which will be drawn up and adopted tomorrow, so that we finally arrive at what we all want: security of supply, greater efficiency, a constructive dialogue with third countries, so that the use of clean energy is guaranteed for the future and for future generations.
member of the commission. mr president, after such a challenging and interesting debate, i would like to take the liberty of speaking a little longer than usual to end the debate. in the situation we are currently facing, we would usually look to history for courageous decisions which have been taken on energy policy. so far i have found one: it was before the first world war, when winston churchill, who at the time was responsible for the navy, decided to change the fuel for the british navy from coal – which was domestically produced in wales – to oil. when asked about security he said that diversity was the answer. we face as big a challenge as he did. however, we should also have courage. neither opec nor russia hold the ace in our poker game. we do. i believe that, in the current challenge, the most competitive advantage will be that part of the world will not only be energy-efficient, but will also be capable of managing demand. this is the key to success. otherwise, even with the best diversification, we will not be sustainable. this is a key challenge that we have to face. the second important issue is that, if in a more complex environment – not just one in which we switch from coal to oil – we would like to be successful and achieve the goals we have agreed on, we should be aware that we are able to achieve them, just as we have been able to achieve our previous goals. this is crucial. solidarity is extremely important. however, we should all understand that solidarity imposes some ‘homework’ on us to prepare for this, and that there is a price to pay. we should believe that, for example, the power bridge between lithuania and poland is not only a commercial issue, but also one of solidarity. it should be built, but not on the basis of commercial arguments. i heard a lot of sceptical remarks in relation to markets. however, the market actually provides the strength of the european union. there is a lot of emotion about national champions. however, each case will be judged on the basis of european competition law. if there is a need to strengthen the law, that is a different story. debate will always make emotions stronger. but the law will be applied exactly, and competition will prevail. new technologies are definitely necessary. the price of oil is actually stimulating development. i recently received a very interesting proposal concerning super-grids that bring together many offshore wind farms. when you meet representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises dealing with renewables and heating and you ask them what they would support, they claim that oil prices should stay where they are. this gives more diversity and stimulates technological development among our researchers. but, this again brings us back to the fact that we will only be as strong as our will. if we are weak and do not believe in it, nobody else will help us – neither russia nor saudi arabia. we must help ourselves. in this respect, i believe that such debates are necessary. the strategic eu energy review will provide for a very competent debate and for the right decisions to be made. but i still believe that the basic answer lies in our strengths as a union: i.e. in democracy, our vision in international relations and the market. but for the market to work, we should provide for stable and predictable investment conditions. the market will then provide what is asked for. thank you very much for your debate. i really believe we will come back for the debate and agree on the content of a european energy policy.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think we can all agree that the european union is founded on values and that the european union is committed to promoting these values globally in the world. this includes making concrete contributions to peace, sustainable development, respect for human rights and the development and strengthening of democracy worldwide. the european union in particular has a very wide range of instruments to take action in this area. these include trade and development policy, diplomatic initiatives under the common foreign and security policy, and civil and military crisis management operations under the european security and defence policy. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the debate on the european union's involvement in the democratic republic of congo today is a particularly good example. i would also like to mention other activities in this area, such as the african union peacekeeping mission in darfur, amis ii. with the comprehensive africa strategy adopted by the european council at the end of last year, the 'common position on the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts in africa' and the 'esdp action plan to support peace and security in africa', the european union set itself clear objectives: the commitment to peace and security as a prerequisite for african development contained in these documents logically follows the commitment to contribute to the resolution of conflicts in africa by strengthening african crisis management capacities, including through the peace facility for africa, and through corresponding operations under the european security and defence policy. the european union's engagement in the democratic republic of congo reflects the comprehensive nature of these european ambitions: the main basis for the european union's relations with the democratic republic of congo and thus for eu support for the stabilisation of the country is the cotonou agreement, with the european development fund resources available in this context. the peace facility, which i have just mentioned, and which is not directly linked to cotonou, also deserves special mention. part of this money will be used to finance initiatives that contribute very directly to improving the security situation in the drc, such as the provision of decent housing for soldiers and their families or the provision of modern equipment. the drc also demonstrates that the european security and defence policy can make important contributions to the stabilisation of a country with relatively small resources by helping to reform its security sector, not only in the military but also in the civilian sphere. i would like to mention the civilian esdp mission eupol kinshasa, whose duration was recently extended until the end of this year. through training and advising the so-called 'integrated police unit', it makes a key contribution to making the police in the capital kinshasa not only efficient but also in line with the basic concepts of a modern state of law. the esdp military mission eusec congo is supporting the congolese military authorities in pushing forward the necessary reform and modernisation of the armed forces. i do not think it is necessary to mention that the work of the eu special representative for the great lakes region, mr aldo ajello, is also of great importance for the stabilization of the situation in the democratic republic of congo. i should now like to make a few points on the specific mission in the congo. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in copenhagen. firstly, the european union is responding to an explicit request from the united nations. we are relying on the judgment of secretary-general kofi annan. you are certainly aware of the fact that the council has already made a great effort in the past to support the united nations and that the esdp is reinforcing the united nations on the ground. you will agree with me that the european union, as a european union committed to multilateralism, is called upon to make an effective contribution here, as is also the wish of the member states. secondly, both the president of the democratic republic of congo and the two vice-presidents support such a support mission. the high defence council has also explicitly called for this mission and this is also contained in a corresponding press release. this shows us that it is in the interest of the drc to have additional and credible deterrents to prevent a military option. i would like to stress this point: this is a mission to prevent the use of force, and we hope that the presence of this deterrent will prevent the actual use of military means. this deterrence is useful, even if the congolese authorities consider that the forces provided will not have to be used. but they should be available. we do not want to question this congolese assessment either. thirdly, the drc is the largest and most populous country in the region. the european union is, as you know, more involved in the democratic transition process in the congo than in any other african country. the european union has already used a wide range of instruments in the past to end the conflict and to advance the peace process. we, as the european union, have spent 700 million euros on projects to support the transition, 200 million of which alone were for election support. i already mentioned the police mission. as you know, we sent a military mission in 2003 to prevent an escalation of the fighting in the east of the country, which would have jeopardised the final negotiations in the peace process and thus the establishment of the transitional government. the member states now consider it appropriate and necessary to safeguard these investments in peace in the drc and to ensure that peaceful democratic development continues. fourthly, as regards the political-military and military parameters of the mission, they will be developed and defined, as in the case of previous missions, including those in the democratic republic of the congo, in cooperation between the relevant council formations and the operational headquarters.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. as we have heard, the united nations has asked and urged the european union to help secure the elections in the congo by sending a military mission to the country. how are we to respond to that? there are a number of things to consider. on the one hand, we have to ask ourselves: do we as the european union already have the capabilities at this stage to carry out such an operation? secondly, do we not have other priorities in the immediate neighbourhood of the european union, such as the balkans, where peacekeeping is the first and foremost task of the european union? thirdly, is there not a danger that we may get caught up in a conflict which we will not be able to resolve in time? these are the questions which i am asked again and again in this context, also as a member of parliament. on the other hand, we must also - as you have said, mr president-in-office of the council - see the european union's interest in the stability of this country in the heart of africa. the fact that the european union as such is also involved here must be clear to anyone who has ever looked at ceuta, melilla or lampedusa and the terrible scenes that are taking place there at the poverty line. stability in africa is a matter of the european union's own interest and that of its citizens. we must be aware of our responsibility to the un. we must be clear that the prevention of the use of force, which is the aim of this operation, is particularly in line with the european union's security strategy. we should also not forget that a large number of election observers from the european parliament and other parliaments, led by our friend philippe morillon, are already working in the congo to secure the elections. what are our conditions for european union intervention in the congo? firstly, we demand that there be a clear time limit. the task of such an intervention cannot be to stabilize the congo as a whole - that is a long-term task and a task of the united nations. the same is true of the 17,000 un troops in the congo. we must concentrate on contributing to the stabilisation of the elections on 18 june. secondly, there must be a clear succession plan which makes clear how, after this intervention, the united nations on the one hand and the congolese army on the other hand will take over this task. there must be a local limit and it must be clear that things like katanga or the eastern provinces of the congo must remain the responsibility of the united nations and not the european union. it must also be clear that this is a clear european effort. it is not just one or two nations that must be involved here, but more european nations must be genuinely involved in this matter. we need a formal request from the interim government. here too there seems to be some doubt about what the congolese government has now formally said. but above all, we need a convincing concept, one that is capable of convincing potential troublemakers that it is better to accept the results of the elections, and on the other hand to encourage the congolese people to exercise their right to vote. these are the conditions under which the european union and we, as the european parliament, can agree to such action. the point now is to resolve the outstanding issues as quickly as possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the debate of the last few weeks has exposed the whole dilemma of the lack of political conception. i think it is wrong to just ignore it and find only nice words. twelve weeks have passed since the letter of 27 december, which was a surprise even to the un security council, from un under-secretary-general gã©henno, asking for military intervention in the congo, and there are still more questions than answers, and a gap between the demands and the reality. we're not convinced. we are not supporting the joint motion, and i will explain why: of course we are greens in support of democratization in the congo. but how could it be that the question of european involvement is reduced to the question of a military intervention in kinshasa and the counting of soldiers? why are we discussing the deployment of soldiers but not a large number of eu election observers? why is the full range of the potential effects of cfsp and esdp not being examined? why are new justifications being put forward every day, such as the european interest in protecting refugees? i ask you: what does all this have to do with the possibility of democratic elections in the congo? the rhetorical debate of the past few weeks raises the question of whether the operation planned for kinshasa is really about democratization or whether it is about preserving the image of the european union. the first is that the dynamic set in motion by the request has become independent. months after the request and the unsuccessful exploratory missions to the congo and new york, neither a political concept nor a clear mission is in sight. a hand kiss from chirac, ladies and gentlemen, cannot hide the unanswered questions: how are 1,500 soldiers in kinshasa to ensure free elections throughout the congo? how do we disprove the charge of being pro-kabila? how will the eu engage in the wider congo after such a deployment? and when it comes to evacuation - this is the point now - who should be evacuated? do we need a un-mandated combat mission to advance support for democracy in the congo? and, in principle, ladies and gentlemen, if we are so passionately speaking here of european responsibility for africa, how is the debate today compatible with the simultaneous inaction in the ongoing genocide in darfur?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the european union is planning, against all reason, a military operation in the congo. officially, it's about securing the elections, but in the preparation of the elections, things are going pretty badly. for 500 seats in parliament, only 60 candidates have applied, and the deadline for applications is tomorrow evening, thursday evening. the eu wants to send 1 500 troops to the third largest country in africa, a country with an authoritarian regime, and a german spd politician commented that this would be like sending 750 troops to lisbon and saying that they would stabilise all of western europe. militarily, this operation makes no sense. then why this troop deployment? german defense minister franz joseph jung speaks plainly. he says it is about refugee protection and he says: "stability in the resource-rich region also benefits the german economy". the cdu meps in germany say that there are strategic raw materials such as tungsten and manganese. and now the german government has decided to wait until the beginning of may to decide on this military operation. soldiers are saying more and more clearly that they don't want this operation. it is relatively clear: once congo, always congo this will not be limited to four months. the application has no geographical limitation and a time limitation is only very vaguely stated. we therefore ask all members who are sceptical to vote against this motion. i want to make this very clear: this is really about access to raw materials and military deterrence of refugees. we as the left group are quite clear: no, we will not agree to this motion!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are aspects outside the technical debate about this use which should also be discussed here. part of it is playing with dumb prejudices. instead of talking openly about a dark africa where people are constantly killing each other, as it were, because of natural necessity, in my country, in germany, for example, csu politicians are asking whether the german bundeswehr should not be guarding world cup stadiums instead of going to the congo. i think it should be made very clear that this is a garden-dwarf perspective, and that needs to be made clear. i admit, mrs beer, that there are a number of open questions which are indeed serious and which have yet to be resolved. i am also quite confident that they will be resolved, among others, by our colleagues in the german bundestag. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the past few weeks, i believe, serious shortcomings in the european decisionmaking mechanism have been revealed and have yet to be resolved. it is not possible for one side to say: 'we will first ask for operational concepts before we send troops', and the other side to say: 'we will only submit operational concepts when we are sure that we will not have to go alone'. i can't do that. it's self-blocking. without unrealistically demanding treaty changes, we must conclude that there is a need for a very rapid review of decision-making procedures at council level, so that in situations where decisions have to be taken at a shorter time than is the case now, we can actually take those decisions.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i cannot answer all the questions, because, as i said, the precise political, politico-military and military parameters which will form the basis of the final decision of the council are now being worked out, and i am very grateful to mr kuhne for having also spoken in this sense of the need to work out the basis for the decision. mr von wogau asked what the government had said. i said in my first statement that there were very clear statements by the president and the two vice-presidents, and i may perhaps quote only one paragraph from the defence council press release of monday: 'during a meeting held on monday 20 march under the presidency of the head of state, his excellency joseph kabila'. the head of state shall be the chairman of this body. "the high defence council has examined, among other points, the question of the constitution of a european military contingent at the request of the united nations". the council then concluded: 'with a view to strengthening the electoral process security system, the conseil supérieur has recommended, in the light of a report presented by the minister of foreign affairs, that we support the initiative to set up this european special force'. so a clear statement, and there is no reason to doubt it. what was said here about doubts about the usefulness of the mission was also mentioned again in this communiqué. 'it is appropriate to emphasize the essentially dissuasive character of this contingent.' i am very grateful to mr morillon for mentioning this explicitly. i can only repeat what i have already said. i believe that the european union has a responsibility to make a meaningful contribution to the democratic process in the congo. we must be clear that among the wide range of options available to us, we should also consider the use of military missions that we have in the area of democratic development assistance, such as development cooperation and assistance in the building of the rule of law and democracy and the protection of human rights. this is a responsibility of the european union. the council shall assume this responsibility.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will try to answer your questions as fully as i can. i am afraid i will not be able to answer all the questions, also because the negotiations have not yet been concluded on all the questions and there is not yet a council position on all the questions. but i hope i can make some explanations. first of all, i would like to refer to the agreement reached by the european council in december 2005 on the financial allocation of the 10th european development fund and the member states' contribution key, a process which was difficult and which has been worked on for a long time. you are of course aware of the agreement reached, which provides that future development financing for the acp states will not be provided from the general budget but from the 10th european development fund. you know the number. the european council has agreed on the amount of eur 22.6 billion. this is the commitment that the european union made to the acp states at the time of the revision of the cotonou agreement in february 2005. it is important to note that the acp states were assured that aid efforts would be maintained at the level of the 9th edf, excluding the residual funds from previous development funds, plus the effects of inflation, eu growth and taking into account the enlargement of ten new member states. the reason for this is clear: we did not want to reward the inefficiency resulting from the non-spending of funds. this was a clear commitment made by the european union to the acp countries. the commission's original proposal - and i hope this answers your question - was for eur 24.9 billion, calculated on the basis of the 9th edf, including the remaining funds from previous funds. it was therefore right and in line with the commitment to the acp countries to clean up this commission proposal. in fact - and i think this should be acknowledged - the commitment that the eu has made at the level i have mentioned represents a substantial increase in real terms in comparison with the 9th edf, which is known to have a budget of eur 13.8 billion. the average annual contribution will increase for all 15 old member states on the basis of the newly agreed contribution key. the 10 new member states will participate in and contribute to an edf for the first time. this is in line with the council's agreement of may 2005 to significantly increase oda by 2015. you also ask what has happened to the contributions from bulgaria and romania. the calculation of the overall volume of the 10th edf and the individual contributions of the member states underlying the decision has already taken into account the accession of bulgaria and romania, which is expected in 2007. as we know, the new 10th edf cannot start until 2008. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the programme. this is in line with the procedure followed in previous enlargement rounds. the council also allocated eur 18 million from the 9th edf to cooperation with the new cotonou member timor-leste, to cover the european union's development aid following timor-leste's accession to the acp group of states and the ratification of the cotonou agreement for 2007. timor-leste will therefore logically no longer receive support from the asian budget line and will receive funding from the 10th edf from 2008 onwards. the council cannot at this stage give any details of the distribution of the 10th edf resources, since this will be the subject of the negotiations on the legal bases, i.e. the financial protocol to the cotonou agreement and the internal financing agreements for the 10th edf, which will begin shortly. the aim of the austrian presidency is to reach agreement with the acp states on the financial protocol at the acp-eu council of ministers on 1 and 2 june 2006, which i will be able to attend. it is also an open question - because you have raised this, madam - how the octs and management costs are dealt with. this is still a matter of consultation and negotiation. the commission proposal on the distribution of funds to acp partner countries is currently being discussed between the commission and the member states. the support to the acp countries in implementing the regional economic partnership agreements - i believe that was also a question from you - is expected to be provided from the funds of the 10th edf reserved for regional cooperation. the council also provided for the continuation of support to the african union under the 10th edf. we're running out of time. in january, during the commission's discussion with the austrian government, the commissioner responsible, louis michel, urged that action be taken quickly, as the current 9th edf programme should and must be able to move seamlessly into the 10th edf from the beginning of 2008. as louis michel has very forcefully pointed out, we have only about half the time available this time compared with the last time. so we have to act very quickly. to ensure this, the process of country programming has already started in parallel with the negotiations on the 10th edf described above. following the adoption of the european consensus on development and building on the paris declaration, efforts are being made to develop common country framework programmes, within which not only the european commission's country programmes but also those of the member states should operate. we welcome this development and will continue to support it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council. i think it is not so much the distribution of funds, the legal issues, the programmes, etc., but unfortunately the fact that the money has been cut. we all in this house are watching with concern the revision of the cotonou agreement and the negotiations on the 10th european development fund. the council had committed itself to providing more money for development aid. this was announced with much applause at the summits in july and december last year. the commission had calculated that the 10th edf would be close to 25 billion for the period 2008-13. i deeply regret that, contrary to these promises, the council was only able to agree to an amount of less than 23 billion. apart from less money, this means that with increasing official development assistance and a fixed edf budget, there would be a de facto renationalisation of eu development assistance. this would be a step backwards in all our efforts to coordinate eu development aid better. but that can't be in our best interest. i therefore welcome the fact that we in this parliament have drawn up a resolution, in a cross-party way, which aims to remedy this misunderstanding. i call on the council to keep its word and provide the urgently needed funds for eu development aid. two billion euros more or less is not a cardboard stick. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the acp countries, and to extend it to the countries of central and eastern europe.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we have already agreed in this house on many occasions and in great unanimity on the millennium development goals, and we have identified the eradication of poverty on our planet as our most important task for the next few decades. the excellent report by luisa morgantini now provides an assessment of the contribution that economic partnership agreements can make to tackling this task. we expect the commission to give a clear priority in the negotiations to development and poverty reduction in the acp states. i am also referring in my criticism in the next sentence clearly to the speech of the representative of the trade dg at a hearing in the development committee. i must say clearly that we do not want a negotiation in the style and the spirit of a colonial power, but we want to see the sovereignty of decision-making respected by our partners in the acp states. this sovereignty must be promoted by investments in trade infrastructure and, of course, by support for the implementation of national poverty reduction strategies, in line with the principle of subsidiarity, which is also upheld in the eu. if governments decide to be sceptical of the wpa, then there must be alternatives, such as those offered by the cotonou agreement. i wonder why the ppe-de now wants to delete this reference. why does the ppe-de suddenly no longer feel bound by contracts? the ppe-de also calls for the report to be stricken of almost every sentence which gives the acp governments negotiating sovereignty and a political margin of manoeuvre as to whether, to what extent and over what period of time a sector is to be liberalised. why, i wonder. the morgantini report calls for the basic supply of drinking water, education and other key areas of public services to be excluded from liberalisation from the outset. the ppe-de calls for this to be abolished and instead for the liberalisation of the water sector to be geared to affordable prices. i consider that cynical. i think that is unacceptable in view of the poverty in large parts of the acp states. i demand that we reject these motions tomorrow.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the regulation on the financing of european political parties, which we adopted in 2004, was a complete success. the separation between parliament and parliamentary groups on the one hand and political parties on the other has been achieved. this was a longstanding request of the court of auditors, which we have complied with with this regulation. in the meantime, 10 party families have registered; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget line is used to finance these projects. this shows that there is a diversity and a liveliness of political culture at european level. ten party families, that's a great achievement. before, there were only four. so the number has more than doubled. the experience of financing political parties is good. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is hoped that the committee on budgets and the bureau will be able to provide planning security for the whole of the parliamentary term at the beginning of the parliamentary term. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the year 2000 and whether he is prepared to accept the amendments which have been tabled by the committee on budgets. the parties have their own revenues: donations and membership fees. it is not possible, of course, under the eu's financial rules, for them to lose this own revenue if they do not spend it in the same year. i am therefore grateful that we have already met in strasbourg a requirement which appears in the report, namely that the parties may set up reserves of up to 25% of their own resources. it is their own money and the eu's financial rules should not be too restrictive for the parties. the committee also wants the subsidies to be carried over to a new financial year for up to three months, up to a maximum of 25%. politics is an unpredictable business and unforeseeable events must actually lead to a certain amount being spent in the next quarter, so that the parties do not get the december fever and have to have spent virtually everything in december. the report contains other proposals. but i now want to come to the second stage which we are introducing with this report. we need a genuine european statute for european parties. it is not possible that european parties should be required to register and be subject to control under the law of a member state. the desire of all parties is to have equal rights and equal obligations in all member states, and this can only be achieved by a statute. the committee on constitutional affairs is prepared to make a submission on this. the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal, and i am sure that the commission will do so in the near future. the second idea we should discuss is the importance of political communication across borders. in many countries there are political foundations for this purpose. we also believe that european political foundations should be set up at european level. here again the commission is asked to make a proposal, whether it be a legislative proposal or a budgetary proposal. we should consider whether there will not be european lists in future european elections, so that citizens will have two votes: one for the national or regional list and one for a common european list of parties, because only with such a list is it possible to campaign together. we have 25 different campaigns in the european elections, and european lists would be a synthesis of all of them. i would like to end by mentioning the youth of the party. youth is the future. we must pay particular attention to the promotion of youth political organizations, which are the future of the parties, and the parties are part of democracy. the report takes us a big step forward. i thank the secretaries-general of the parties, but also the administration of this house for the effective management of the funds and the secretaries-general for their good suggestions which have led to this report.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank mr leinen for this important report, which provides a good opportunity to both look back at what has been accomplished in the area of european political parties and what could be done in the future. it was only three years ago, in 2003, that the regulation governing the political parties at european level was adopted by this house and the council, on the basis of a proposal put forward by the commission. the institutions were thus translating into practice the objective set by the treaty of amsterdam and the new legal basis offered by the treaty of nice. as the european community treaty acknowledges, political parties at european level are an important factor for integration within the union. they contribute to forming a european awareness, to expressing the political will of the citizens and to promoting political debate at european level. it is a fact that since the entry into force of the regulation, ten european political parties at european level have been established. we could take this as an indication that the european public sphere is being gradually built, where citizens can expect their voices to be increasingly heard by the institutions. i have great sympathy for this, as it is also one of the thoughts in our white paper on communication. we need a european political culture and we need help to promote that. however, there is still a long way to go to connect the european project and the european institutions to the citizens. again, this is one of the key issues that the commission addresses in the white paper on european communication policy. i am convinced that not only governments and parliaments, but also political parties and public bodies have to place the issue of europe at the forefront of public consciousness. we should also reflect on the low turnout for european elections and jointly look into ways of increasing voter participation, as the commission has already proposed in plan d. it is not always easy to see exactly how we could play that role, but i think the institutions would have a common interest in ensuring that there is also a high voter turnout and high participation in the discussion on these elections. mr leinen’s report emphasises that political parties have to work for citizens’ involvement, not only through european elections but in all other aspects of european political life. we fully share this view. there are a number of important issues that are raised in paragraph 12 of the report. they concern the role of the european foundation. as mr leinen mentioned, this concerns the role that european parties can play in european referenda and the enhancement of youth organisations. the commission would welcome a broad and in-depth discussion of these issues. they are all part of our gradual move towards the real european public sphere. again, we have a great deal of sympathy for these proposals. political parties are an essential part of the democratic structure of the union and it is therefore appropriate that they receive some support from the community budget. we take note of the suggestions advanced in the report as regards injecting more flexibility into the public funding system. many of the ideas outlined in the report could be made concrete by an adjustment of the internal rules supplied by parliament. as regards other suggestions, which would imply amendments of the regulation covering european political parties or of the financial regulation, we have to look at those in a broader context. you will notice the careful language that i am using on this point. as you know, we are currently revising the financial regulation and its implementing rules. we should assess the situation in the light of this exercise, as, again, one has to balance the need to look at other financing, or at ngos for example, with a view to finding the best tools to improve the current situation. finally, we take note with interest of the idea underlined in paragraph 4 of the report, namely that the committee on constitutional affairs should consider the question of a european statute for european political parties, which could go further than the existing regulation. among the ideas that the committee should consider is the possibility of better defining rights and obligations for the european parties. the commission will certainly follow with interest and attention the work which will be carried out by the parliamentary committee in this area. i would like to express here my personal commitment to this important reflection. i repeat that this is fully in line with our ideas in the white paper. this has to do with creating a european political public sphere where we can have debate and where the political parties will play a very important role.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i am speaking on behalf of mr lópez-istúriz white, who was the author of the opinion of the legal affairs committee, and i will make a few comments on this for him and for my group. i share the view of the rapporteur, mr leinen, that the current statute must certainly be considered a complete success in principle and that it is entirely right that we have implemented a concrete separation of the funding of the parties from that of the political groups. we also owe it to the citizens to make a change here. political parties take part in shaping the will of the people - in europe, it must be said, of the peoples. it is therefore necessary that the european institutions create the conditions and conditions for these european parties to be able to work sensibly. the following four points are particularly important to me in this context: firstly, a financial framework must be created which makes possible long-term financing which is also long-term and sustainable. however, the grants currently paid to european parties do not allow for truly long-term sustainable planning of activities to a sufficient extent. planning is now tied to the calendar years in the election period. in addition, there may be changes in party financing as new parties are created and then the adjustments to the volume of financing have to be made. i am simply saying that the existing law does not provide sufficient planning security and that therefore changes would be desirable. secondly, we must allow the european parties to build up financial reserves and not lose them over the course of a year. mr leinen has also raised this issue, and it was also a factor in the discussions in the legal affairs committee. the famous phrase "december fever" is aptly applied here. we want to have a sustainable long-term planning of the party's finances and not a situation in which, as it were, just before christmas, money is thrown out the window because it simply has to be spent and otherwise it may be lost. in this context, it is also worth considering the 20% limit for the transfer of funds from one budget line to another and to handle this more flexibly. the european parties must be able to respond to changing requirements, such as those arising from a crisis in political affairs, and to make changes in funding, including to a greater extent than is permitted and provided for in the current statutes. fourthly, in this context, i believe that the statute of european political parties should be amended so that they can act more effectively in the interests of all citizens and fulfil their role as a motor of political will. i do not deny, however, that the parties could of course do a little more on their own to achieve this objective of bringing europe closer to the citizens and involving the citizens in what is happening here in europe. i personally do not think that a european list, alongside the national lists, would be able to solve this problem. lists are abstract and are assigned to particular parties, and many citizens cannot identify with them. what we need is a much greater personalisation of the european electoral process, and there is a very simple way to do this: if at least the two major parties in europe could decide to run with one of their top candidates in the european elections with the aim of electing that man or woman as president of the commission, then in a relatively short time we would have a strong personalisation, a much greater identification with people and with a political, programmatic statement, with which we could probably increase the turnout in european elections considerably by this alone. i hope that the political parties will have the courage to do so.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. as a member of the party of the european left, which was founded in may 2004, i am convinced that european political parties can make an important contribution to the further integration of our continent and, above all, to the emergence of a european consciousness that is increasingly transnational. political parties are not the only, and certainly not the best, actors in our democracy, but they are a central element. it is therefore only to be welcomed that it has been possible to include a corresponding paragraph in the constitution, in the section 'democratic life in the union'. unlike other european parties, the party of the european left is a young european party. it is therefore still to some extent occupied with processes of its own party development. but if i just think of the heated debates recently on the services directive, for example, it has shown a certain capacity for action and a certain profile on this central issue. paragraph 12 of the report calls on all european political parties to contribute more effectively to the public debate on the future of the european union. i would like to express my support for this. the current period of reflection on the european constitution must not be reduced to a pause for thought, that is, a pause from thinking. i personally think it is high time to take new steps, for example in the european elections. parliament has already proposed changes to the electoral law years ago, and why should it not be possible for citizens to finally have a choice between different european lists of european parties in the next european elections? and to quote mr lehne: i do not think this is an 'abstract thing', but a new political approach. this does not prevent anyone from linking this to appropriate personalisation. in conclusion, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr leinen, for his report. the proposals contained in the report on the financial regulation are balanced and are also supported by the party of the european left. more long-term planning certainty and more flexible management of the funds disbursed will improve the ability of all parties to develop their political work.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. allow me to make a somewhat heretical preliminary remark. the important reports are discussed in this house just before midnight and the esoteric rush of resolutions is discussed during the day at the best time of day. if we are talking about parliamentary reform - and there is a proposal from the president of the house - i would say that before we seriously discuss the curtailment of the rights of members, we should talk about making the agenda for plenary sessions so sensible that important issues are also in the right place. this is a matter of european civil law. the commission's efforts to develop european civil law in a wide range of fields through a reference framework in a certain context are simply and profoundly concerned with the fact that it will have an impact on the civil law legislation of the member states and the european union for many generations. there is even some debate about whether the work in question could even lead to a uniform european civil law. i'm saying this with caution. so this is a really important and decisive project. the european parliament has been following the european commission's efforts to establish a european civil law for many years and has expressed its support and approval in a number of resolutions since 1989. we are doing the same with this motion for a resolution. we have reached a very critical stage. the work on the reference framework and the revision of the acquis in the field of consumer protection is currently under way. this critical phase is characterized by the fact that it is now decided whether these works will ultimately be successful or not sufficiently successful, and this depends crucially on the quality of the content that is being determined in these works at the moment. the european parliament therefore considers that what the commission has set in motion is right in principle, but needs a number of improvements. in particular, we have the impression that the cooperation between the academic groups developing the common civil law framework and the networks in practice is not working properly. we want the experience of the network as practitioners to be taken into account by the scientific groups in an appropriate framework, and we are urging this as a legal committee. another important point is that a clear distinction is made between the area b to b, i.e. business to business, and the area business to consumer. we want to protect the consumer, but traders must also have a high degree of contractual freedom and must not be restricted by bureaucratic rules. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is not enough for parliament and the council to express their views on the procedures for drawing up the framework, but they must also be involved in the content of what is being developed within the framework, because they will be the ones who will later adopt the parts of the framework that are to be set into law and then represent them to the citizen. in this context, it is important that parliament should also be involved in the content. we believe that this should be done through two processes. the commission is constantly and fully informing parliament of the progress made in drawing up the reference framework and in improving the consumer acquis, and we have the opportunity to comment on this in a continuous process. the second thing that is to happen, and for which we have already taken the first organisational measures in this house, is the setting up of a project group consisting of rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs from the two committees involved, a working group whose purpose is to closely follow the work of the commission, the scientists and the network and also to provide political guidance on certain legal policy issues, for example on the question of the demarcation between what should be 'business-to-business' and what should be 'business-to-consumer' law. these are crucial points from our point of view, and we believe that they should be settled and that greater involvement by parliament is welcome and necessary. these are the essential elements of the resolution we are discussing. in conclusion, let me say again that i believe this is the most important project that the european commission and the european institutions are undertaking in this election period. this is by far the most important project, and in this context i actually expect that we will try to make it a success, because it is also of great importance for the european single market to grow together and for everyone in this single market to benefit from it.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the political situation in belarus after the elections.
thank you, colleague. the desire to change the agenda was already announced yesterday. i assume that this has been discussed in the political groups. i have announced this morning that the agenda will be changed and i have indicated who wants to change the agenda, by which groups and with how many signatures. no one in the house objected to that. mr krarup, i am sure you will raise this in your group.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is important to me first of all that the message be clear, and that is the message from all the european institutions, that this election was a farce. lukashenko's claim that he was elected cannot be credibly substantiated. he's been using fraud to keep himself in power! that's the truth! the population is becoming less and less convinced of this fraud, otherwise on sunday night, despite threats from lukashenko and the secret service, tens of thousands of people would not have gathered in october square. this is our great hope in belarus: these people in the october square. that is why i would like to send a very special greeting from this house to them, because they are our future partners! the first priority is therefore to recognise these people as partners, to support their democratic activities and to ensure that, if they are arrested, those who arrest them are subject to a visa ban. because what these people are doing is nothing more than exercising their democratic right to express their opinion and to manifest their desire to live in a democracy. i would also like to return to the subject of russia. the g8 summit is currently taking place and it would be urgent to put the question of how we are going to continue our journey with belarus as a special item on the g8 summit agenda. the european union cannot be a serious partner to those who continue to support belarus and lukashenko like pudding. belarus is in the way of a good relationship between russia and the eu, which means that this must be discussed. i expect the presidency to report back to us on the progress of these talks. only then can we take a step forward and support those who are holding out in the square.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr bushill-matthews, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the demographic challenges and solidarity between generations 2005/2147 (ini) (a6-0041/2006).
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr bushill-matthews and the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality for their report, which is truly inspiring. i am pleased with the support parliament has given to our green paper. the parliament's report comes in time to give impetus to the commission's work on the new demography communication, because we will be finalising our communication in the next few weeks, and so the timetable makes it possible to make very practical use of your report. the report contains some very important points which deserve to be included in a new communication drawing conclusions from the reactions we have received to our green paper and from the impact studies funded by a pilot action organised by the european parliament. it will announce how it will be possible to continue cooperation at european level on demographic issues. ladies and gentlemen, europe has achieved extraordinary success in the past period, and i would like to make that clear and to make us aware of it. because the demographic aging of our society is a manifestation of success, and it's at two ends of the pyramid, in two places of the pyramid. life expectancy has been extended by enormous advances in medicine, which has, for example, significantly managed cardiovascular disease, meaning that it has significantly intervened in extending life expectancy in middle age. significant advances in medicine, in child care, and in perinatal care have reduced infant and newborn mortality rates to levels never before seen in history and probably not expected even a few decades ago. that's a definite accomplishment. in some ways, we have, or soon will have, two lives compared to our ancestors. and i was very pleased to find out, in a debate with the insurance companies, that they're starting to work out the mortality tables not at 80, but at 120. this success has its consequences, of course, because demographic ageing is changing our entire society in all its aspects. and i think what's important to realize is that we need a holistic response, a total integrated response. demographic aging is not just a matter of pension systems, it's not just a matter of health care, it's not just a matter of education, it's not just a matter of urban planning, and i could go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and and on and and on and we must therefore work to make active ageing a reality. we need to develop child and elder care services. we need to develop new products and services to better meet the needs of the ageing population, but also, of course, the needs of an ageing society whose age structure is changing. finally, we need to invest more in developing and maintaining human capital so as to achieve high levels of employment and enable older people to remain active for longer. the responses to the green paper consultation, in particular those of the member states, strongly emphasise the need for better reconciliation of private, family and professional life. immigration is already preventing demographic decline in some member states. to have a truly positive impact, it must be accompanied by greater efforts to integrate and better manage diversity. ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the immigration that we have to deal with, that will be a permanent part of our society and our future, is not the solution to the consequences of demographic ageing. he's one of the pieces, but he can never consider himself to be the solution. let me elaborate on some of the guidelines that should be on our work programme for the coming years. we want to put reconciliation between family and working life back on the agenda, because it is clear that european citizens want more children than they actually have. and to fulfill this natural desire and this natural desire of theirs, in my judgment, requires a deep reflection on our society as a whole and on some of our habits, ways and techniques that we use. we want to establish a european forum on population and demography to allow for a deeper understanding of the different aspects of the integration of the demographic dimension into policies, with the support of recognised experts and civil society. in 2007, the commission will report on the measures taken by member states to transpose the age discrimination provisions of directive 2007/78 into national law. every two years, on the occasion of the forum's plenary session, the commission will publish a report on population and demography in europe, which will describe demographic trends in europe in a global context. ladies and gentlemen, europe's added value lies in organising the exchange of information, in comparing best practice and in presenting and disseminating comparable data. we are already doing this in a number of areas, in particular those covered by the lisbon strategy. ladies and gentlemen, the demographic changes are changing our society. it has changed it throughout history and it will change it in the future. our society is getting older, mechanically speaking, demographically, but it's also absolutely certain that it's getting wiser, because wisdom is associated with experience, and it's associated in all societies with those who have been lucky enough to have had the opportunity to draw on experience. i think that in our debates, we will find ways to respond to the challenges that this great achievement of our society brings us, namely, to extend human life and to increase its quality so that life in future generations will go on this way, that is, by deepening the quality of life, deepening the humanistic approaches, deepening those values of society that we value.
adopted by the commission on 27 june. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank mr bushill-matthews for his excellent report. a word to mr špidla: i personally welcome 120 years of life. i have to be 116 before i break even on my pension. i am surprised that the green paper on demographic change did not give more attention to health aspects. an ageing society is not limited to economic aspects. as we can already see, new diseases are coming to the fore: dementia - whether alzheimer's or subcortical dementia - vascular diseases, from coronary heart disease to renal failure, metabolic diseases - here primarily diabetes - osteoarthritis of the spine and large joints, osteoporosis, to name a few. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a question of maintaining both the quality of life and the mobility. we need a social reorientation to meet the challenges. retirement is now a third of life. we need meaningful employment, social responsibilities, fulfilling responsibilities for the elderly, accessible housing, new forms of housing and, if necessary, excellent care and medical care. i do, however, have a few criticisms of the implied and unreflected assumption in the green paper that a population decline would have only negative consequences for the established social system. i therefore ask that the following questions be considered: how can the negative effects of population decline be absorbed by innovation, higher employment rates and modernisation of social protection, and can there also be positive aspects of population decline, for example in the areas of the environment, traffic congestion, land use? can we finally establish a kind of pareto optimum for the population of europe?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. demographic change is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges facing all the member states of the european union today. we should also see demographic change as an opportunity to create a new solidarity across generations, guaranteeing a good education for young people, creating jobs for all and enabling them to age with dignity. a very important step in this direction is that we mainstream the impact of demographic change into all policy areas, both at national and european level. this must also apply to the work of the european commission. we must also learn more from each other and intensify the exchange of experience not only between governments but also between the social partners. they make a vital contribution to what is characteristic of our european social model, namely social cohesion. i therefore welcome the call on the member states to establish new partnerships with the social partners and the call to rapidly carry out a consultation of the social partners on reconciliation of work and family life.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the only way to have a serious discussion of demographic change is to look at people as individuals and not as economic factors. i think that this is precisely the mistake made both in the commission's green paper and in the present report by mr bushill-matthews. i also miss the discussion of demographic change being seen as a global problem. it is clear that in our debate on demographic change, neither the millennium development goals nor the fight against world poverty are of the slightest importance. the problem is not that the european population is declining, but that it is declining disproportionately in the regions, that it is threatening the coexistence of societies and that we are not linking this demographic change within europe with the exploding world population. we are looking at the ageing of society in europe almost exclusively from the perspective of the decline in the labour force, and completely ignoring how productivity develops. at the same time, we are using it to cut social security, sickness, health and pension benefits and to think about extending working life to an unprecedented extent. i am referring only to the study prepared and published by the commission, which covers 71 years. i would like to see a different set of priorities. we need a child-friendly society in which people actually want to live with children. we need a different debate, because it cannot simply be about seeing children as an investment in securing the workforce and securing the retirement pension. and it cannot be that we simply want to find a better balance between work, family, working time and leisure time. it has to be about more than that. it has to be about the child. the child must be the focus of attention and must be considered as an individual. of course, society also has to meet the challenges of ageing, for example by developing human services or urban development, for example, housing for the elderly, transport for children and the elderly. there's a lot more connections here than we think.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr neil parish on his balanced report, which my group expressly supports. the development of non-food crops offers farmers in the european union the opportunity to open up new markets. this is why support and research in this area are crucial. the use of renewable raw materials and the production of energy from renewable sources represents a huge potential for europe's rural areas. i come from a rural area in lower saxony, a large country in the federal republic of germany. for us in lower saxony in particular, bioenergy is of central importance as an income alternative for farmers and forestry workers. in some areas, particularly biogas, we are already at the top of the european market with some 430 biogas plants. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the european parliament will re-examine the eu's strategy for biomass and biofuels in an own-initiative report. the committee on agriculture and rural development will also be preparing an opinion on this. i am pleased, as the author of this opinion, to be able to build on the good work of my colleague neil parish.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. it 's quite remarkable . when we talk about a supply crisis, everyone thinks about whether putin will turn off the gas. the fact that europe is one of the world's largest food importers and that if we maintain this standard of living we can hardly feed ourselves is not mentioned. it is also interesting, when we talk about income alternatives, why, if you grow sugar for consumption, that is, as food, you can't earn any income or hardly any income. why is it possible to make a living growing sugar for bioethanol? these are inconsistencies. now to the question of ecology: what about the use of genetic engineering in the cultivation of renewable raw materials? we have the problem of contamination here, not the problem of coexistence? i say we got it! we also have un-ecological methods of growing renewable raw materials. it's not necessarily ecological. when we come to greenhouse gases, we have to say: they are also bound when we produce for food. so a little more moderation and a little less enthusiasm than the rapporteur shows, and a little more focus on renewable resources that are generated as waste products. it's interesting that when we use grass in milk, it's used worse than when we put it in the biogas plant. so if we want to recycle, it would be important to recycle straw, wood, hedges, but to bind the land we need for food, for growing renewable resources, is a big problem that we should look at more closely and with less enthusiasm.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. biomass is undoubtedly the future of europe's energy supply. however, we must not repeat the mistakes of the past in supporting biomass. i think that the commission has a duty to do more than just to give the market a chance. so do not ask for an eu single market regulation for biomass or for permanent subsidies. we cannot put farmers back on a subsidy track where we have to realize after a few years that our well-intentioned policy cannot be accompanied by wto rules. instead, we have to recognize that with rising oil prices, growing biomass is becoming interesting even without government support. it is only where there is a lack of critical mass for market entry that political support must be provided. the aid programmes must then be limited in time and designed in a degressive manner, and we must allow progress to be made. the keyword is genetic engineering. in the case of energy crops in particular, genetic engineering can bring decisive economic advantages in global competition. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. policies must provide the framework for turning this fragile plant into a powerful source of energy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr parish, for the excellent work he has done in producing this own-initiative report. the energy mix and the share of renewable energy in total energy demand are the most topical issues today, due to current events. this opportunity must be seized in the interest of a wide use of non-food crops. the agricultural reform allows farmers to grow energy crops on land set aside, but food production remains a priority. but we must continue with this first step. that means we need to strengthen research and then development towards modern economic biotechnologies. the main focus is on market entry and competitiveness. in other words, it is important to put the environmentally sound promotion of bioenergy from non-food crops on an economically viable basis in the long term. we still need jobs in rural areas.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i ask for clarification, an insertion. after management expenditure forthe following sentence: any executive agency created or extended to administer this programme
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this house has given important impetus to the emergence of european parties. we now have ten party families, which shows the diversity of political culture. this report marks the beginning of a new phase in the work of these parties, one which is both easier and simpler. european parties are essential to european democracy, and we hope above all that the parties will put forward leading candidates for the office of president of the commission before the next european elections, so that citizens can choose between persons and programmes and help decide what kind of europe they want. (applause from the centre) i thank the chairman and the secretaries-general who have given important suggestions. this budget line is one of the few for which parliament is responsible. i would like to thank the bureau and the administration of this house for the really good management of this sensitive budget line for european political parties. i call for the report to be adopted. (applause from the left)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i would like to stress again, after not being able to take the floor at the vote in strasbourg last week, that it is important that we separate the consumer protection and health protection programmes, even if it was not particularly favourably assessed by the commission, because ultimately both programmes are based on different legal bases and we therefore also have to ensure consumer protection in different ways. secondly, i would like to point out once again in this explanation of vote that it is not a good idea to try to create more agencies in the european union and thus to make the responsibilities of the various officials wider and therefore less transparent. i therefore welcome the report by mrs thyssen from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which takes this concern into account in principle. the fact that we have adopted the report today with the oral amendment on financing has provided a good solution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to the parish report and i would just like to say that europe needs three things to secure its future. first, a healthy environment, especially in terms of air, water and soil. secondly, a healthy and adequate diet and thirdly, energy. the rural areas can provide all three of these things to a sufficient extent and independently of external sources on which we would only become dependent. it was therefore disastrous that tony blair, here in this very chamber a few months ago, should have denigrated our farmers as backward. every penny we invest in agriculture and the countryside is an investment in europe's future. these are three vital areas full of innovation and full of future opportunities. the future of europe is increasingly secure, and this is a revolutionary development which we have taken far too little notice of in our rural areas and in our rural, decentralized structures.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. anyone who has ever flown over africa in broad daylight knows how much the congo is its geostrategic heart. that is why it is necessary that we try to ensure democracy and stability there. but we should regard the current critical debate on this subject as a final warning sign that we must finally create the structures necessary to safeguard europe's interests on a neighbouring continent of such strategic importance. we are right to make policies on other continents, we are taking responsibility for peace and freedom, but we are failing to provide the necessary instruments. we need a european army, a professional army, to supplement our conscripted and other armies. the national armies must continue to defend the homeland, but we still lack the tools to intervene on other continents. we're threatening to take over, and that's why i'm saying yes to this mission. but we must take it seriously, and at last equip our foreign and security policy with the instruments necessary to safeguard peace.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report by mr őry was originally scheduled for wednesday's agenda, and the vote was accordingly scheduled for wednesday. the conference of presidents has now decided to move this report forward to tuesday, but only last thursday. the result is that we have not had the opportunity today to debate it finally in the group, because when we invited our members we assumed that the vote would take place on wednesday and that we could then discuss it finally on tuesday evening. i would therefore be grateful if the honourable members would agree to discuss this tomorrow, but not vote until wednesday.
mr president, i would like to confirm this trend and to say to my group that we are in favour of it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. originally, the title said that the assyrian community in iraq should be discussed. then, at the conference of presidents, the title was changed to "the prisoners in iraq". we are not against the consultation on the situation of prisoners in iraq, but we believe it is urgent that the assyrian community should also be discussed. that is why i ask that we agree to say: we are discussing the assyrian community and the prisoners in iraq.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the images and news that have been coming in since monday last week, mainly from diyarbakır and many other kurdish cities, are shocking. they are strikingly similar to those in gaza or the west bank. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the fact that the turkish authorities have not yet taken any action to deal with the situation in the former yugoslavia. there are hundreds of injured and seriously injured, and hundreds of arrests. we must prevent further escalation. the turkish government has not yet taken any action to prevent the kurdish people from being killed, and it is not possible to say that the turkish government has not taken any action to prevent the kurdish people from being killed. i would ask the commission and you, mr borrell, to contact the mayor of diyarbakir, mr beydemir, and to request the establishment of an ad hoc delegation to investigate in detail the incidents in the affected areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank commissioner neelie kroes for her work as commissioner for competition during the reporting period, which was only half of her term. i believe that parliament has also been able to put forward a good alternative text on the basis of the commission's report. the positive elements of the parliament's text have been mentioned several times. i would like to mention two things that have not been mentioned. firstly, i think it would be desirable for the commission to identify the services of general economic interest as a separate category again next year, i.e. when assessing the year 2005. the commission intends to legislate further in this area in the near future, and it would therefore be useful if we could have a separate overview. secondly, i was somewhat surprised that the 2004 report did not mention postal markets at all. we are following the initiatives to open up the postal sector with great interest and we believe that we will be reading some of these reports in the coming years. but, apart from the report, allow me to make a few brief comments on competition policy in general. it is always said that competition law is at the heart of the european treaties. in any case, it is - and this has been complained about before - very executive-heavy. the current cases we are seeing in europe, however, raise the question of whether competition law is still really paramount or whether other elements have taken on an important role. i think we can honestly say that we as the european parliament very much want to put the full implementation of articles 81 and 82 at the centre of our economic policy. they are also introducing some structural reforms in european antitrust law, which i think is extremely good. but i think that on many issues - like the stop-the-clock shop - it is clear that we need better cooperation between national antitrust authorities. i would therefore urge you to continue where you started in your last speeches.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by congratulating the european parliament and, of course, the rapporteur, david hammerstein mintz and michael cashman, on two very important reports. if i may begin by commenting on the openness of the council, the commission fully supports open council meetings. we already said in plan d in october that the council should be open when it legislates and we support the initiatives taken by the council. i am convinced that opening up the council meetings would increase the credibility of the eu and the interest of its citizens. i know that there is a consensus of principle between our institutions on this issue and it is now up to the member states to act and deliver. i also think that it would be an effective way of ending what we call the blame game, so this is an important issue. transparency also applies to public access to documents and regulation 1049/2001. formally, this legislation only applies to parliament, the council and the commission, but it has nevertheless come to cover many more. the various eu offices and agencies and most bodies have voluntarily adopted corresponding rules on access to documents. in this way, and thanks in large part to the european parliament, the eu institutions have, in a remarkably short time, as the rapporteur, mr michael cashman, said, reached a level of transparency that is very good compared to many member states. that's not to say it can't get better. it can, and it will. in 2003, the commission carried out a study on the way the implementation of the regulation has worked in the first years. in 2004, we published our evaluation report. at that time, the regulation had only been in force for two years but had worked well, and there was no immediate need to revise it, nor any legal obligation to do so. that is why the commission felt it was better to wait for the ratification of the constitutional treaty before we did anything further. the constitution requires new legislation in this area. but we all know the state of the constitutional treaty. in the meantime, the court of justice has also made several proposals to introduce the rules on access to documents. the commission has therefore considered that now is the right time to start a review of the regulation, and the decision to do so is part of the wider 'european transparency initiative' that we decided in the commission in november last year. the report by mr cashman is therefore very timely, at best, when we are looking at how we can improve the rules on public access to documents. the commission and i personally, i can promise you this will look very closely at the recommendations in the report. one of the conclusions drawn by the commission in its evaluation report in january 2004 was that the regulation has been used primarily by eu professionals, lobbyists, consultants and law firms rather than by the general public. that is something we want to change, and we need to do much more to reach the citizens. the first thing we are talking about is public access to documents, the right of the public to be informed, and this is another reason why we want to have a public consultation before we change the legislation. the commission intends to hold such a consultation from july to october this year, and after that we will present a concrete proposal at the end of this year or the beginning of next year. without going into detail on the various recommendations in the report, i can only make a few clarifications. recommendation no 2 calls for greater transparency in the legislative process and a clearer distinction between legislative and administrative documents. this is a very interesting proposal which we will look at carefully. the same recommendation also applies to the official journal and to electronic publication. here, our institutions decided jointly to look at the issue as early as 2004, and the publications office has already published a report on the future of the official journal. recommendation 3 deals with classified documents. here we must be careful not to confuse different things. confidentiality is not in itself a general exception to the right of access to documents. a refusal to disclose a classified document must be justified in the same way as any other document. the procedure is the same and the institution's obligations are the same. the same recommendation also addresses the issue of access to classified information by the european parliament. here, too, we risk mixing things up. parliament's rights in this area are not regulated by the regulation but by annex 1 to the framework agreement between our institutions. the framework agreement is working well, is our experience. in recommendation no 5 i have found several very interesting and useful suggestions for more user-friendly registers and databases. those proposals do not need legislation, because they are about practical details and measures, and the interinstitutional committee set up by this regulation met last november and decided to set up a working group to look at those issues, so a solution may be closer than we think. finally, the commission is very much involved in the issue of public access to documents. we have started a review of the regulation and have started to look at many of the issues raised in the report. we hope for continued support from the european parliament and we expect a lot from the general consultation we will be conducting between july and october. public access to documents is about transparency, about credibility and, basically, about democracy. it is therefore important that we continue to work well together and listen to the public. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr hammerstein mintz, and also mr cashman, on behalf of the ppe-de group in the committee on petitions, for their work and the reports that have resulted from it. they are indeed a major contribution to the fact that there can be no doubt about the european parliament's commitment to making europe more transparent. if i may, i would like to say a few words about the background to the hammerstein mintz report. we have been talking to the friends of the young union about how it is possible that we receive so often news from the national public about certain decisions which are then blamed on the european institutions, even though the council - which is also very prominent this evening - has participated in these decisions on an equal footing. this gave rise to the idea of approaching the european ombudsman in connection with the convention, then through elmar brok, and of trying to bring the european legal situation, which was also decided by the council, into this context. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. it would be a great service to the image of europe, and in this case above all to that of the council and the european union as a whole. i believe that, regardless of the individual issues raised by mr cashman and mr hammerstein mintz, we have less need for action in the commission and in parliament in terms of transparency and openness, but very much so in the council of ministers. the council of ministers is, of course, somewhat more difficult to work with because the facts are not as they are in parliament or the commission. however, i think that in a debate like this one - without wishing to get too close to the austrian presidency - we should be able to ask that it be treated with much more seriousness. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not used in a way that would be contrary to the interests of the community. perhaps you could pass this on to your committee.
the commission has already done so. i apologize for the short notice, but the foreign affairs committee just finished its meeting at this very minute. i am glad that this report has been presented because it represents an important step in the right direction. we would not need to discuss this report if the constitutional treaty were ratified, because that is one of our important wishes in the constitutional treaty: the issue of transparency is crucial to the legitimacy of politics. this means that we must give an answer to the citizens' questions about who is responsible for what when decisions are taken. if one of the two legislatures, the council of ministers, does not meet in public when it comes to legislation, then we have a problem in the long run. we are in this reflection phase, and we could also give an answer there, in order to make it public. of course, i am aware that there are limits - also in relation to the coreper - on where publicity can be made or where publicity can prevent negotiations. there may be some areas where i do not entirely agree with the rapporteur. i would like to ask you, madam commissioner, madam vice-president, to join us in this initiative to make progress here. i would also like to thank the european ombudsman for having issued this positive opinion in his report, because the impetus for this was given by a petition which was submitted by the representatives of the young union of north rhine-westphalia with my help, and we are pleased that it is possible, thanks to the pressure also exerted by young people, to bring about such a debate which will enable us to have more transparency and more democracy.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr georgios papastamkos, very warmly for his report and for the clear and unambiguous positions he has taken on how we envisage a wto agreement. the committee on agriculture and rural development also wishes the doha round to be concluded successfully, but not at any price. it cannot be that only a few, madam commissioner, have the advantage and many others are left behind. what we need are fair trading conditions. i welcome the call in the report for a fundamental reform of the wto. it is not enough that the wto should make trade expansion its main objective. environmental, consumer and animal welfare standards, as well as minimum social standards, must also be set as wto objectives. it is not possible that those who exploit nature and exploit people socially will have advantages at the end of the wto negotiations. it is unfair that european farmers have to meet one food production constraint after another, whereas there are no such constraints on imports. helmut kohl, the former german chancellor, once said that he wanted food imports to be treated in the same way as the automobile industry: cars from japan, the usa and korea could be imported into germany, but they could only be driven on german roads if they met the high technical standards set out here. if food meets the same high standards as we european farmers do, then we are not afraid of global competition. we are willing to face this competition, but we need a degree that involves the many in the increase of wealth, not just a few.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the doha round was about making sure that trade also supports and promotes development. this normative claim is a milestone in the history of international trade relations, and this claim was and is correct. this means that the development perspective must shape the continuation of the negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must take this analysis and this judgment very seriously and it is against this background that the commission is called upon to facilitate and support flexible solutions for the developing countries in the negotiations through the so-called special and preferential treatment. the main thing now is that the hong kong outcome in the current negotiations should not be undermined. the greens therefore reject the proposal in mr papastamkos' report to keep the number of coefficients in the swiss formula as low as possible. this is fundamentally contrary to the spirit of the hong kong compromise and would deprive the developing countries of further room for manoeuvre for independent development. but they need that flexibility, and i call on the council and the commission not to follow such proposals and to adopt a pro-development negotiating strategy.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank mr papastamkos for his report. the large number of amendments in the committee has shown that there are very different ways of assessing it, that there are different interests to be represented and, of course, different priorities to be set. agriculture: it is clear that the common agricultural policy needs to be reformed while maintaining its multifunctional character, which also implies that there must be continued support for farmers in the european union. but care must be taken to ensure that support is used for social and ecologically sustainable regional development in rural areas and not for big agribusiness and banks. the european union's offer to abolish its export refunds by 2013 as part of the cap reform is not very generous. the commission has also been careful to reduce internal support. nama: i think that the swiss formula currently proposed in the field of nama is completely inadequate, because 'equal' does not mean 'equal'. all countries, especially developing countries, must be allowed the right to industrialize at their own pace, which includes the right to protect weak industries. i would also like to draw attention to the negative economic consequences which the sudden disappearance of customs revenue may have for these countries, since customs are often a crucial source of revenue for their national budgets. services: the same applies to an even greater extent to services. last week the director-general of the world trade organisation, pascal lamy, himself reaffirmed that, under the gats rules, all countries are free to liberalize or not to liberalize their services markets, or to decide when and to what extent they want to do so themselves. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. customs preferences: it is right that the report addresses the problem of eroding customs preferences and falling commodity prices. in this context, and in view of the expiry of the acp-eu agreement, parliament should also urge greater emphasis on development objectives in the negotiations on economic partnership agreements. democracy: as regards the democratic dimension, i believe that it is essential to consult more closely not only the interparliamentary union but also the european parliament, national and regional parliaments and the public. trips: i welcome the agreement on the amendment of trips with regard to better access to medicines for developing countries, but i do not think it is sufficient. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to make a few points. my first point is, of course, to thank mr papastamkos, but i would also like to include my own group's colleague, mr javier moreno sánchez, who is our shadow rapporteur. both colleagues and all the other colleagues who have acted as shadow coordinators here have done an excellent job. they have, to a certain extent, worked together to produce a good compromise and a sensible report. there are a few points which are important and which are related to the aspects which you have mentioned, madam commissioner. we are in a very difficult situation here: london has not succeeded, rio has not succeeded, geneva is coming soon. are you ready and able to say something about the negotiations? will geneva be held? how will it be? the second point, which we have raised with the commissioner on several occasions, is whether the commission will be prepared to recognise the role of parliaments in the final declaration this time. we already have the recognition of civil society, but we still lack the role of parliaments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative.
the commission has already done so. i would like to begin by congratulating mr papastamkos on this really excellent report. i know he put a lot of heart into it and worked on it personally. congratulations on this paper. i would like to draw attention to two points. the first point is the geographical indications of origin. the commission and the european community as a whole have unfortunately not been able to find a solution to this important issue of geographical indications of origin. and it's not just about places, it's not just about names, it's about the knowledge that's in the products that come from those places. europe is in many cases the original. a lot of people do that, and we should get paid for it. the second point i would like to make is what has been said by mr mann, mr karim and others here, and which fortunately has had an influence on the report. it is not acceptable that 130 parliamentarians from 80 countries negotiate for three days and not even appear in the final communiqué, while the ngos appear in six places. this raises the question of the democratic legitimacy of this event. who else but the democrats should have a say in this? i would like to thank mr papastamkos for his excellent report.
mr president, i have one short question concerning the point the commissioner just raised, that the april meeting will be a general council meeting. according to the information i have received, the general council meeting might be changed – if it is successful – to a ministerial meeting. in that case, the usual practice is that we have politicians available. could you please evaluate with your fellow commissioners, and with commissioner mandelson, how you would like to proceed in such a case.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would urge that we accept the urgency. it is really necessary, in the interests of spanish fishermen, that fishing should be allowed from 1 may, when the season begins. they have not had the opportunity to pursue their fishing activities for years now, and a delay does not change anything in the current ratification procedure or in the content of the treaties.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we all agree that the european single market is our great opportunity: our great opportunity to find our own way in globalisation with some 450 million people, a path that must be marked by economic prosperity and sound finances, but also by a return that reaches the people. what we need to discuss, and this debate is at the heart of it, is the following question: we have all the instruments we need to make this happen and are we using the instruments we have properly to give this single market the right framework and to influence the processes of economic development in a sustainable way? let me make two comments which go beyond today's debate and the reports: if we do not succeed in bringing the european union's finances back on their own and predictable feet soon, we will not be able to do the job. and if we do not succeed in talking about taboos soon, in talking about the need to have a common tax policy in this european union, we will not be doing our job. i say this because the economic situation in which we find ourselves no longer justifies taboos. i support anyone who brings fresh air into this debate, because if we forget the economic situation, we cannot afford to continue to ritualise discussions and keep fresh air out of our house or out of our discussions. we had economic growth in 2005 that fell behind what we had in 2004. we still have a very high unemployment rate of 9%. and in particular, longterm unemployment is on the rise again. i very much support it and i am very pleased when commissioner almunia says that there are signs of good economic development. but, commissioner almunia, there is no guarantee that this will lead to a self-sustaining recovery in the european union. that is why we must discuss what is on the agenda. when will we finally start to develop a common investment policy in the european union? this is the most urgent requirement we have to face. when do we start investing in research and development together? we've barely made it from 1.8 percent to 1.9 percent in the last decade. when do we start investing in education better and more sustainably, with a coordinated strategy in the member states? when will we unlock the great potential that lies in energy efficiency? this is the key to the next technological revolution. let's get to work. where are the member states' investments, where is the leadership of the european debate in this field? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, there are many shortcomings in implementation in this area which could be addressed if we tackle them and invest more. childcare one of the key issues! those who invest more in childcare have higher birth rates and more people - especially women - in the workforce, as our statistics show. we support all those who want to progress here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. we must not only write own-initiative reports, but we must also be able to discuss them on a different, more stable basis.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not the only one to have a problem with the european parliament. commissioner verheugen said that the employment guidelines were at the heart of the lisbon strategy. that's right, i did. the guidelines for employment policy are now not only formally the basis of the national employment plans, but also have an impact on the design and promotion of the national labour market. it is not unimportant that the council simply dismisses the fourth pillar of european employment policy, the promotion of equal opportunities for women in the labour market. women are much more affected by unemployment than men. they're still the ones with the most part-time jobs. they still receive 15% less than men for similar work. your chances of promotion are less. they still have a much harder time reintegrating into the labour market, especially where there is no universal, open access to full-time childcare. the need to complement gender mainstreaming with active measures to promote women remains. in this respect, i am really grateful to magda kósáné kovács that we were able to find at least a common compromise in the recitals to include measurable indicators for the promotion of equal opportunities in the guidelines. i would also like to draw your attention to a second amendment. we want to abolish guideline 22. we believe that wage costing is a matter for the collective bargaining partners alone and should not be part of political decisions. it is very strange to me to have to say that there seems to be a tacit agreement between the two major groups in parliament that in future government policy decisions in the form of national employment plans will have to ensure that the general wage trend is in line with productivity growth in the business cycle. i thought we had finally overcome the planned economy i know from the gdr in europe, especially since it must be remembered that the guidelines are the guidelines for the european social fund's funding concept. it would be inconsistent for the esf to be involved in wage formation. we should leave that to the social partners and their capacity to act.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the main problem facing the european union is high unemployment. to bring 20 million unemployed back to work, we need a policy change in practice, not on paper. the guidelines are the main instrument for the effective and necessary coordination of the economic policies of the member states. unfortunately, the concrete progress made so far is unsatisfactory. the liberal group therefore calls for renewed efforts. we expect member states to pursue sound budgetary policies, to introduce real structural reforms in the labour market, health and pensions sectors and to invest significantly more in training and research. at european level, we are calling for the creation of a single consolidated tax base for corporate taxation, an improvement in vat systems, facilitation of the internationalisation of companies through the adoption of the 14th companies directive, progress in the elimination of subsidies, the introduction of a community patent and the consequent opening up of markets. only after we have done our homework can we think about what mr bullmann has called for, namely the introduction of taxes at eu level. only by changing policies can europe effectively meet the major challenges.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am, of course, glad that i am able to speak in the approximate time that was originally allotted to me. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his intensive work on this subject. the report again makes it clear that the european union is the opportunity for european citizens to achieve a fair compromise between economic and social conditions in the context of globalisation. but the problem is that the citizens of europe are not aware of this. the 20 million unemployed and the 100 million or so people who fear for their jobs blame the european union rather than globalisation. the others, whose jobs have been secured by the european union and the work of the commission and parliament, are unaware of this and blame it on the national governments. i would like to expressly agree with mr rosati that it would be desirable if the council, which is the only body with competence in this area within the framework of the lisbon strategy, would take these important issues more seriously and if the debates in the european parliament would not be conducted solely between the commission and parliament. it is true that the commission also has an important task to perform, that the measures already decided in the council are also de facto implemented by the member states. but we also have to be honest we will probably see this later in őry's report : the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is therefore very good that the commission - mr špidla has also spoken in the german media - points out that the flexibility of the labour markets is the only thing we can do in europe to give our citizens more work, and that this does not have to bring fear, but on the contrary creates more work. that's what everybody wants. i therefore strongly urge you to make a stronger effort in the member states to ensure that the decisions taken by the council in this respect are finally implemented.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. the green group is in favour of the introduction of free movement. we support the balanced report by mr őry, because transitional periods are very popular with the people themselves, but they do not bring success. the headlines in the german newspapers say that the government has decided not to let the cheap workers into the country, and the government's decision is justified by the desire to protect its own labour markets from the influx of cheap migrant workers from neighbouring countries. but that 's a bluff . the transitional periods do not stop the migrant workers. they come anyway, and they work undercover and as a fake freelancer. the transitional periods drive people into illegality and thus make them even cheaper workers and the object of brutal exploitation without labour protection, without social security and without the security of being paid. people in the illegals have no rights. wage pressures in sensitive sectors and in the labour markets concerned are much greater. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. this one has its own rules and is not controllable. governments that continue to insist on transitional periods are encouraging illegal and semi-legal employment. the social cohesion is thus much more at risk. we must legalise working conditions to enable workers to exercise their rights. more transparency also means better monitoring of labour markets. we must design the de facto european market according to the principle of 'equal pay for equal work and equal working conditions in the same place'. this strengthens national and regional collective bargaining and guarantees equal social rights for all. for example, for the german government, this would mean that it would have to extend the posting of workers directive to all sensitive sectors without further reservations, because we know that in germany and austria the transitional periods for the services sector are linked to the transitional periods for freedom of movement. only proactive labour market regulation can really protect against malfunction. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the lack of freedom of movement for workers from the new eu countries means that many people are forced into undeclared work, in undignified working and living conditions and in illegal employment. it is also discriminatory, since the free movement of persons is a fundamental freedom guaranteed by community law. this freedom has existed for workers since the founding of the european community in 1957. it is unacceptable that it does not apply to millions of people in the european union in 2006. the socialist left and the gue/ngl group in the european parliament have repeatedly urged, in the course of the enlargement process, that the conditions be created so that the accession of new member states to the european union will allow the free movement of workers to take effect without social distortions. the people of the old and new member states should benefit from enlargement, but instead it is always about global competition. while in scandinavian countries it has been demonstrated that free movement of workers does indeed protect existing social standards, in germany the federal government has extended the transitional periods without even indicating what it intends to do in order to use this transitional period to finally enforce the free movement of workers. in fact, my group agrees with mr őry that we do not really need transitional periods. however, the present report shows little sign of awareness of greater social responsibility for the european labour market. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am in favour of free movement of workers for all eu citizens and the introduction of minimum wages and social standards to ensure that people do not fall into poverty. the fight against poverty must be made a top political priority in the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we wanted the eu to enlarge to 10 member states - culturally, economically and politically. as a german mep, i have been campaigning for the project for years and trying to get people involved. one of the conditions for the acceptance of citizens was the right of member states to restrict the free movement of workers in accordance with the situation on national labour markets. the committee on employment and social affairs argued that there had been no massive migration flows and that the transitional measures guaranteed by the treaty should be abolished immediately. i note that in many member states, such as germany, austria or france, the experience is quite different. wherever there are significantly higher hourly wages and social security, there is immigration. it must be controlled, black-collar work and false independence must be prevented. in countries with high unemployment, a further influx of labour does not create new jobs or increase the competitiveness of firms. even though this report is not legally binding - it is only an appeal - it could be misused to put individual countries on the dock, to make people feel against them, to call on consumers to boycott products from these countries. we've been there. anyone who tries to drive a wedge between the old and the new member states is endangering the idea of an eu that is more than a free trade area. i have worked on compromise amendments and i thank our rapporteur, mr csaba őry. the commission is also proposing to reduce the number of transitional provisions, but on the basis of detailed analyses of national labour markets. the commission will also be preparing rules to ensure that workers from the new countries are not placed at a disadvantage compared with third countries. what we need are well-considered decisions. global competition requires appropriate framework conditions in all eu member states, such as reforms of social systems. actionism threatens to derail our common european project.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i too am against second-class membership of the eu. of course, the free movement of workers must be extended to all workers in the eu as soon as possible. but it was not without reason that the possibility was created at the time to restrict access to the national labour market under the 2+3+2 scheme. i think it is rather daring to draw automatic conclusions from the experience of three member states, as the commission does, and to apply them to all the other member states. i would also like to say quite frankly to my esteemed colleague, mr őry, that i understand that he shares the commission's position, as do many other colleagues. but let me also point out in this connection that it was the czech minister for labour, for example, who announced at the end of last year that even his country was considering introducing transitional periods for the free movement of workers in relation to romania and bulgaria. unlike the uk, sweden and ireland, germany has an unemployment rate of not just around 5%, but 12%. right on our doorstep is a country with an unemployment rate of 18%. it is understandable that this inevitably causes many workers to fear for their jobs. and that a government is trying to take this into account, but probably also - especially when you know that germany has already granted the highest percentage of work permits to citizens from the new member states.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. despite the call made in the őry report, i am firmly convinced that in those member states which consider it necessary, the transitional periods for free movement can be maintained. if a country believes that it can continue to control access to the labour market for reasons of labour market policy and economic considerations, it is legitimate. the pacta sunt servanda applies here too, and neither the commission nor this parliament - perhaps not even its majority - should presume to apply appealing pressure to some countries. i think this is a very bad attempt to create a mood on a very urgent subject. i cannot simply compare germany and austria with spain and portugal on this issue. germany is at a crossroads in this respect and the conditions are quite different from those in southern europe. there is so much talk in this parliament about subsidiarity, and suddenly people want to know more about the free movement of workers in brussels and strasbourg than they do in germany or austria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the control of access to the labour market must be maintained for my country for at least the next three years. what is to be valid for the following two years must then be discussed and concluded in the light of the new situation. in conclusion, it should be noted that the population was very much afraid of eastern enlargement because of this problem, and we have always been able to say that these fears are unfounded, these questions are settled by contract for five or seven years.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. meps voted in favour of the commission's proposal to amend the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. we have done so because we want to support the concerns of our group in solidarity with our colleagues. we nevertheless maintain that employment policy is not a matter for the eu. that is why this issue should be dealt with by the member states and not by us here in strasbourg or brussels. if the european union is to succeed, it must focus on its essential tasks. this is the principle of subsidiarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has jumped over the shadow of the services directive, which has suddenly come back to haunt it this past week. commissioner mccreevy, dear charlie, as rapporteur and on behalf of my group i am pleased that the commission has kept its word to the european parliament and followed the overwhelming majority in the plenary. i know that this was an hour's work for the heads of government yesterday, but now the most important law for europe, besides the constitution, is on the right track. we can go along with this, or should we say that the commission is following parliament? the commission has taken a decisive step towards a social europe. and i am particularly pleased, commissioner, that the main sticking point - the principle of the country of origin - is finally off the table. this is the greatest breakthrough for a social europe. i am also very pleased that you have followed parliament's proposals to exclude important sectors from the scope of the services directive, including parttime work, security companies, gambling and the whole health sector. there is, however, a question mark as to the exclusion of social services. we shall have to discuss how this idea of the european commission is to be evaluated and interpreted. i am also pleased that, contrary to initial fears, the sectoral directives also take precedence over the services directive; the commission has also been active in the field of employment policy, and has played an important role in the european parliament, particularly with the posting of workers directive. i think that we have achieved a great success for the people, for social europe and, last but not least, for the european parliament. we have thus demonstrated that we as meps take our rights seriously in the interests of citizens. the council of ministers has now decided. it will be up to him how soon we have sensible legislation. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the commission's recognition of the posting of workers directive as an essential instrument for the protection of workers in the european services market. the services directive should not restrict the posting directive. the posting of workers directive ensures the principle of 'equal pay for equal work at the same place'. however, mr špidla, i wonder how, in view of the criminal energy that is being expended to circumvent this principle in practice, a foreman on the spot as a contact person or a report on the day of the start of work should be sufficient to ensure control by the member states. the scope for controls by the member states must not be restricted if they are intended to protect workers. this must be the guiding principle of the handbook and not the claim that it is a purely bureaucratic burden. the protection of workers must remain the focus and the objective of the posting of workers directive.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. let me say something about three aspects, firstly, simplification. there is no doubt that the european parliament is in principle behind the commission's efforts to simplify legislation. but i also want to make it clear that the pieces here, as in many other cases, are of course in the details and that you have to be careful not to spill the child with the bath. i would like to give an example: if i read in the commission document, for example, that it is intended to simplify all commercial and company law, then i know, as one of the permanent rapporteurs on this subject in the legal affairs committee, that many of the directives and regulations we have found there have been the result of highly complex compromise negotiations and that a simplification proposal always involves the risk of opening pandora's box and, in the end, of calling into question compromises reached after much effort. in this context, the instrument of simplification must be used with great care. i therefore believe that it is quite sensible to consider whether, as in the case of codification, an interinstitutional agreement between the three institutions, which would clearly define the procedure for simplification legislation, should not also be adopted for simplification. the second point i would ask the commission to consider is the question of the priority given to simplification proposals. directives are usually not addressed to citizens but to national legislators, and practitioners end up dealing with laws that are enacted at national level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the commission should give priority to regulations because regulations are directly applicable law and reach the law-seeking public directly. the second theme is impact assessment. i would like to emphasise once again that, from the point of view of the parliamentary majority, an independent element in the impact assessment of legislation is absolutely necessary. in a report in december, parliament called for an independent agency on the american model. i want to make it clear that this is not a conditio sine qua non for me. you can talk about that. however, it is essential for me that there is an independent external factor that must be involved in the impact assessment. it cannot be that the officials who make the proposals are also solely responsible for the evaluation of the legal effects, because the consequence is that this evaluation of the legal effects is nothing but part of the reasoning. that's not what we want. i think it is therefore necessary to reach a reasonable conclusion with the commission on this matter. we have had an interinstitutional agreement since december 2003. this agreement establishes that the commission is in principle responsible for the impact assessment. but this also means that it is essentially sharing responsibility with the legislator, that is to say, with parliament and the council, and that is why we believe that we as parliament also have and should have a say in how the impact assessment is carried out. this is also why we have suspended the decision on the follow-up administrative arrangements within the conference of presidents for the time being, because of course this will have to be renegotiated, also in the light of the decisions we will take on these four reports in may this year. let me refer to a very topical point. since 16 march, advocate general sharpston has delivered a lecture in spain v council, in which she explicitly refers to the impact assessment in her opinion. she said that if there was no adequate impact assessment, it would be an indication that the act was arbitrary. this is a proof that the court of justice is also increasingly concerned with this issue. i think it is crucial - as mr doorn has already pointed out - that comitology decisions also require an impact assessment of the law. there are a number of examples where the real bureaucratic madness was in the comitology decisions and not in the legislation. so here too, we need a reasonable legal impact check. let me come to one very last point. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has relied heavily on the european umbrella organisations in its previous approach to legislative preparation. i am not against the european lobbying associations. but the decision-making processes in these umbrella bodies are sometimes more complicated than in the council of ministers. and what comes out of that is often the condensation of consensus into nonsense. i think we need other consultation mechanisms to get the information directly from the people involved in working life who are concerned with these issues. the consultation mechanism found in the network, for example, which is currently being developed in european contract law and which has defined a limited number of people to be consulted, could be a good example of how these mechanisms can be improved.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all four rapporteurs for their valuable work on this subject, which is moving not only the tables but increasingly the political world as well. i found the contribution of mr gollnisch to this debate particularly refreshing, who made a really lively plea for the introduction of the european constitution, which apparently links us together - something i did not know before. i also believe that with the european constitution we would be in a much better position in the area of normative legislation than we are today. i'm glad we're on the same page. all these reports on better regulation - and i think we must always be clear about this - are not intended to make the individual citizen more familiar with the legal texts, but to provide the member states with a simple text for implementation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. of course, it is in this context that we complain - and i do not mean it ironically that i have to expressly agree with my predecessor on this point - that we have a very opaque legislative process in the area of comitology, which has occasionally been criticised here. i am therefore convinced that we need an external audit of european legislation and that this external audit cannot be carried out by the commission alone. the question is whether this can be done by an agency - you all know our reservations about the creation of more agencies, free to follow the motto: no bureaucratic expansion for the sake of bureaucratic reduction - or by other external bodies. in any case, we as a parliament should be involved in the selection of these external bodies. the four reports we are discussing today therefore provide an excellent basis for parliament and the commission, and possibly the council, to reach a common position on this matter.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i think it has become clear in this debate that the central problem we are discussing here is the evaluation of the impact of legislation. in my view, this has nothing to do with the replacement of democracy by technocracy. that's not the point. of course, the democratic institutions are also responsible. the commission decides on proposals under its own responsibility, as do parliament and the council, of course. it is a crucial point, and that is that we are changing the procedures in terms of our support. we are currently legislating in the european union through learning by doing. we make a decision, and then something comes out that has some impact. if we then find that it has an effect that we do not want, we have the problem that because of the complex procedures that we have in the european union, we cannot, as in national parliaments, change laws just like that, but that we then need a complex procedure that takes many years to develop directives and to change regulations. we need a different instrument than is often available at national level. we need to know what we're doing. the point of impact assessment is to get help, to get people who are independent to tell us what the consequences of our actions are. the political decision is ultimately ours. but we need this help. this is crucial in an economic area of 470 million people for which the commission, the council and parliament have to make decisions. it is therefore crucial that the independent element exists. i would like to make a very clear appeal to the commission once again to work within its own structures to ensure that this independent element is introduced. if this were not to happen, the consequence would be that parliament would be forced - if we take ourselves seriously - to carry out an independent impact assessment itself. that is not the purpose of the 2003 interinstitutional agreement. we want the commission to take this on its own initiative so that we can have a sound basis for decision-making.
member of the commission. with this kind of question it is too risky to embark on an effort to respond without good checking and preparation, so i can make a commitment that we will try as early as possible in the next few days to respond and come back to you with an assessment of the current situation as regards the payments and commitments for greece.
member of the commission. in reply to mr posselt's first question, i would say that estonia, lithuania and slovenia have set 1 january 2007 as the target date for adopting the euro; cyprus, latvia and malta intend to adopt the euro on 1 january 2008; slovakia plans to do so on 1 january 2009; the czech republic and hungary are aiming to join the eurozone in 2010 and poland has not set a target date. at least once every two years, or at the request of a member state, the commission and the european central bank should report to the council on the progress made by member states in fulfilling their obligation to be fully part of economic and monetary union. in february 2006, the commission, in agreement with the european central bank, announced that the next convergence report, covering all non-euro area member states except the two with an opt-out clause, the united kingdom and denmark, would be published in october 2006, i.e. two years after the previous assessment. however, in accordance with article 122 of the treaty, two member states, slovenia and lithuania, have addressed the commission and the european central bank with a request for a separate report on their progress on convergence; the commission and also the european central bank intend to adopt this report on both member states on 16 may 2006. if the assessment of compliance with the economic and legal convergence criteria is positive, the commission would put forward the appropriate proposal and, after consulting parliament, the european council could examine it in mid-june and adopt a decision, if necessary, so that the final proposal for a derogation could be discussed by the ecofin council on 11 july. the commission is of course in regular contact with all the countries which are seeking to join the euro area, and we are following them very closely and cooperating with them in the practical preparations for this important decision. in reply to mr paleckis's question, i must say that the commission will of course apply the principle of equal treatment when assessing the progress of the ten new member states in economic and legal convergence. as i have just said, countries will be assessed in accordance with the procedure and criteria laid down in the treaty, in particular article 122, and the commission obviously has no intention of changing this procedure or introducing additional criteria. as regards the inflation criterion, the treaty, as the honourable members are aware, provides that the member state concerned is obliged to maintain a sustainable price trend and an average inflation rate that is no more than 1.5 percentage points higher than that of at most three member states with the best price stability performance. the commission intends to apply this criterion rigorously in the future, as it has done in the past.
a writer. the commission is not commissioner, thank you for your precise answer. however, you spoke so fast at the beginning, if i may say so, that the german interpretation was actually incomprehensible. i would therefore like to ask you again: did i understand correctly that the last two of these ten countries will be next in 2010, namely the czech republic and hungary? i would like to ask you whether this is really the absolute end of the process or whether there are any among the 10 member states who have asked for a postponement beyond 2010.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission's duty is to enforce the treaties and i take it for granted that on previous occasions, when the euro area was created, or when the twelfth member of the euro area was admitted, the commission and the council of that time, with the opinion of the european parliament, took account of the obligation to enforce the treaties. i am sure that i, as commissioner, and the commission, which is chaired by mr barroso, will not abdicate our obligation to apply the treaties and enforce them. the economic criteria, including inflation, are defined in a protocol annexed to the treaty, with an equivalent legal value, identical to that of the treaty provisions or articles. therefore, we cannot ignore it or transform it. it is true that there is academic discussion about the more or less accurate definition of the criteria, but the convening of an intergovernmental conference and a ratification process will be the procedure for changing the treaties when it is deemed appropriate and when there is a sufficient majority to do so. the commission is not the one to change the treaties and has an obligation to apply them. it is true that there is an asymmetry, because you are required to meet the criteria to enter the euro area and then, once inside, you can break the criteria; once you are a member of the euro area, you can have more inflation, or more debt, or more deficit. in the case of deficit and debt, there are the rules of budgetary discipline (article 104 of the treaty) and the stability and growth pact, and in the case of inflation, there are no such rules, but there are rules which are probably tougher than the legal rules implementing the treaty: the market rules. today, countries in the euro area are suffering considerably from their inability to moderate the evolution of inflation and unit labour costs. i think we also have to take into account the harsh reality of how markets judge those who do not comply with certain rules, apart from the commission's obligation to enforce the rules of the treaty.
member of the commission. mr crowley, the revised stability and growth pact was agreed by the ecofin council almost a year ago, in june 2005, following political agreement at the european council in march last year. the first experiences with the revised pact are positive and encouraging and point to renewed membership or renewed ownership of the framework by the member states. in all the recent cases we have dealt with, when the commission and the council have applied the rules of the excessive deficit procedure, in accordance with the spirit and the letter of the revised pact, there has been full consensus and there have been no difficulties or political disagreements, as on the previous occasion. on the preventive side of the pact, our review of the 2005 stability and convergence programmes in the first months of 2006 showed that the member states had set their medium-term budgetary objective in accordance with the agreed principles. some countries have decided to set even more ambitious targets, reflecting a national strategy to ensure better sustainability of their public finances. and as regards the adjustment path towards the medium-term objective, member states which are not yet in a balanced situation in the medium term generally meet the requirement of a budgetary effort equivalent to at least 0.5% of their gross domestic product in structural terms. to cite a few examples, i would remind you that since last year, when the new pact was adopted, the excessive deficit procedure has been applied to italy, portugal, hungary, the united kingdom and germany, with unanimity in the council and without the political appropriation problems that existed in the previous phase. in answer to your question, therefore, the commission is satisfied with the way the new pact is working.
member of the commission. mr crowley, mr president, france is subject to the excessive deficit procedure and is subject to the procedure laid down in article 104 (7) of the treaty. in compliance with their obligations to implement the council recommendations under the excessive deficit procedure, the french authorities had the commitment and the obligation to bring the government deficit in 2005 below 3%. last week, the french authorities notified the commission that the government deficit at the end of 2005 was below 3%. in the next three weeks, from now until 24 april, eurostat has to analyse the figures notified by the french authorities and explain whether these figures, a deficit of 2.87%, are correct or not. if they were - i hope they are, but i cannot anticipate eurostat's decision - france would have complied with the recommendations in 2005. the french government also expects to bring the deficit below 3% in 2006, and the european commission takes note of this and welcomes the french government's intentions, but we will publish our spring economic forecasts on 8 may. until then i cannot anticipate what our economic forecast will be for this year, but without anticipating the final assessments, i believe that the budgetary situation in france is improving compared with our forecasts a year ago, among other things because the french government and, in particular, the minister of finance, mr thierry breton, have the political commitment - which i am grateful for, i had the opportunity to do so publicly the other day in brussels - to implement the stability and growth pact. it is a sign of how the renewed consensus around the new stability and growth pact is working. a year ago, before the revision of the stability pact, it might have been difficult to hear the french, german or italian ministers, to take the example of the three largest economies in the euro area, repeatedly make the political commitment that their public accounts would be in line with the recommendations they receive from the commission and the council for the implementation of the stability and growth pact. two years ago it would have been impossible; a year ago it was difficult. today it is real, it is a true political commitment. but this does not mean that there are not still difficult stages ahead, because we must not be satisfied with 2.8% deficits. europe, the european union and the major economies of the euro area must continue their fiscal consolidation until the public accounts are in structural equilibrium in the medium term in order to be able to face the major challenges ahead, the first of which is the consequences of population ageing. as for the euro, confidence in the euro area economy is improving day by day, and there are confidence indices, such as the german ifo index, which is beating the record of the last fifteen years. yesterday, data were published on the indicators drawn up by the commission, the services under my responsibility, which have set new records of trust over the last five years. since the previous expansionary phase we had not reached such degrees of confidence. our currency is perfectly stable on the foreign exchange markets, and some sectors of the economy even consider it to be overvalued. the euro is used in financial markets, debt markets, capital markets and money markets on a global scale in a proportion larger than the relative weight of the euro area economy in the world economy. i therefore believe that we must be vigilant, but satisfied with the achievements we have made in the first seven years of economic and monetary union.
member of the commission. when the euro-area member states decided to appoint a permanent president of the eurogroup, i was very pleased. i was convinced that a regular, continuous, permanent dialogue with the president of this body, which is not an organic formation of the council but which has very important discussions and responsibilities in practice, would be an effective decision. when i heard that jean-claude juncker was to be president, i confirmed my confidence. and now i can say that relations with the president of the eurogroup are excellent, our contacts are continuous and the preparation of meetings has improved considerably. i think that the role it plays towards the outside world, expressing the voice, the criteria and the approaches of the euro-area countries, is very much appreciated. i am clearly speaking positively about the institution, the institutionalization, about the person and about the exercise of functions by that institution and that person. i think the euro area's need for economic policy coordination is clear. i was referring earlier to the problems of some euro-zone economies, for example, in coping with losses in competitiveness due to above-average developments in their unit labour costs. there are problems of asset inflation in some euro area economies, there is an obvious need to improve the dialogue between the eurogroup and the president of the european central bank. all these functions are being fulfilled by the eurogroup, and this is largely thanks to the effective and intelligent direction of the eurogroup's work by president juncker.
member of the commission. i am of course discussing the evolution of the economy of the euro area, not just the euro area, but the whole of the european union. but in particular, since you ask me about the eurozone, i discuss the eurozone economy bilaterally with the various ministers of the eurozone and with the president of the european central bank, and collectively once a month at the eurogroup meetings. most eurogroup meetings have a section devoted to the analysis of the economic situation. sometimes the economic situation is analysed in general terms, sometimes a specific aspect of economic developments is examined. in relation to inflation, the responsibility for maintaining inflation, in accordance with the objectives set by the european central bank, lies with the european central bank itself, an independent institution which has a mandate from the other european institutions, under the treaty, to preserve price stability and which exercises its decisions with complete independence, but also establishes a dialogue with the other institutions. the president of the european central bank participates monthly in the meetings of the eurogroup. we are also invited, as the president of the eurogroup and the commissioner responsible for economic and monetary affairs, to participate, with a voice but without a vote, in the meetings of the governing council of the european central bank, and we accept those invitations. and, in particular, on the subject of housing, at the last eurogroup meeting in brussels last march, we discussed, in one of the points, the situation of housing markets, which is not the same in all the countries of the eurozone. there are some eurozone countries with a real estate asset inflation problem and there are other eurozone countries with the opposite situation, which have even had a total stability, if not a decrease over some years, in the prices of housing and other real estate assets. that internal divergence in the eurozone, in terms of real estate asset prices, creates problems, because by definition, there can only be one monetary policy in the eurozone, and the impacts are different. we have discussed the matter. the european commission has committed itself to submitting further analyses and new considerations to the eurogroup in the coming months. if you are particularly interested in our analysis of asset inflation in the housing sector in some eurozone countries, i will send you the latest quarterly report on the eurozone economy, published a few days ago by the services under my responsibility in the commission.
the next item is the report by hannu takkula, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the 'citizens for europe' programme for the period 2007-2013 to promote active european citizenship (com (2005) 0116 - c6-0101/2005 - 2005/0041 (cod)) (a6-0076/2006).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is indeed in a difficult phase at the moment. after the rejection of the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands, european citizens are growing more sceptical of eu institutions and the eu's rapid enlargement. the 'citizens for europe' programme aims to promote active european citizenship and reduce dissatisfaction and alienation. the main objective of the programme - the promotion of european values and achievements and the preservation of cultural diversity in order to promote cohesion among european citizens - is actively supported by my group. the programme is one of the instruments that could help the eu achieve this goal through town partnerships, citizens' projects, the development of european networks in the field of civil society and adult education institutions. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. memorials to the crimes of these totalitarian regimes, whose consequences were felt throughout europe, have been included in the programme and will receive financial support. both are supported by my group. the proposed overall budget is to be eur 235 million under the financial perspective 2007-13. this financial provision of 'citizens for europe' does not, of course, reflect the real significance of the programme, given its ambitious objectives, as an instrument for raising citizens' awareness of their european identity and common values on the one hand, and for strengthening and supporting european integration on the other.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too welcome this programme very much, as it is an attempt to respond to the crisis of confidence in europe which many citizens feel. it is about being able to hold broad local debates on europe's political and cultural identity, but also on its social responsibility and on the future of europe, on the role we want to play in the world. because only if we have the opportunity to talk to many local citizens, young people, the elderly, people in cultural organisations and political associations, about all these political issues in europe, will we reach the people and their hearts sooner than we have in recent months. that is why the question of europe's future is so central to this programme, but so is the question of europe's past. europe is unfortunately the continent which, with its totalitarianism, its national socialism and its stalinism, has brought enormous suffering and murder and crime not only to europe but also to other parts of the world. that's why i think it's right that this programme is a reminder of the totalitarian past of europe, that we have to work on it, that we have to be sensitive and do everything to ensure that something like this cannot happen again. that is why i want to say explicitly: i do not think that it is a question of creating competition with other dictatorial regimes that have existed in europe. it is true that these programmes are being developed at national level - and we are all concerned about this - but it is also true that this european programme refers to european totalitarianism. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal.
let me make one more correction: the translation said that this was the pact of malta. malta is a beautiful island. the yalta pact was mentioned. it's a very small difference.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank mr takkula for his work and i am glad that we in the committee have all really contributed to it. this programme is the only way for most citizens to participate and contribute to the european idea as an active member of our civil society. in fact, the referenda in france and the netherlands have shown the need for us to explain things better, to explain enlargement, to explain the constitutional treaty, to take the fear of globalisation away from people. all this is possible under this programme, with the help of intermediaries who receive money from this programme. i am therefore glad that the commission has mentioned some of them. we don't need to reinvent the wheel. there are institutions which have long been working for european citizenship. if my colleague allister - he is unfortunately no longer here - has said before that he does not want to be a european, then i can only say: i am from the saarland - this is a small country in germany - i am german and i am european. it's like a russian doll. you can be anything, you can't rule anything out. but we are all committed to european values. i am very sorry that we have thrown too much at this question of the nazi and stalinist memorials. in this context, i would like to say to mr sifunakis - who unfortunately is no longer here - that he has exceeded his powers. he's been unsuccessful in committee with his proposal for these memorials. the committee decided otherwise. mr sifunakis goes there and writes to all the colleagues as chairman of the committee, asking them to follow him now. that is something which i believe has never happened in this house in the 16 years that i have been here. i hope the other members of the committee will not follow him. i would like to say one last thing - it has already been said by my colleague from rome - we need the urban partnerships, which do a wonderful job. there, too, a little more money can accomplish more than in many other things that may yet be conceived. i would ask the commissioner to include the three organizations which we want to include in addition. they've done a wonderful job, and you can count on them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the 'active european citizenship' programme, if properly implemented, can be a very valuable tool in overcoming the gap with citizens and the euroscepticism. with a budget of less than 300 million euro for 7 years and 36 programme countries, expectations are high. however, it will be difficult to implement in four different areas of action. i would like to thank mr takkula for his efforts to achieve a balance and to avoid cuts, for example in the case of urban partnerships, which are too small for the budget. these are citizens' projects that strengthen european awareness and identity from the grassroots. we want to support the active civil society projects in the european union, which are so idealistic, and which need our attention and help. we want to support the public relations work of the european houses and the institutes operating throughout europe. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. as a german social democrat, i am also very much interested in the fourth line of action. i'm from nuremberg, the city of the nazi reich party days. today, the city is trying to re-imagine itself and re-position itself as a city of human rights. if we want to actively shape the future, we must become aware of our past, which is why action 4 is so important in the context of active european remembrance. we need the memorial to the victims of the nazi and stalinist repressive regimes and the appropriate places and memorials. but we must also remember all the victims of dictatorships. i therefore ask you to support my group's amendments nos 54 and 55. we should be very careful not to play victim against victim, and i therefore ask for support for these amendments.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank all the participants in this debate for their very interesting points and contributions. we can easily agree that, although the consensus is strong, there are sometimes questions about programmes or european identity, but that identity is none the less emerging. we perhaps see it more from the outside than the inside, but it is complementary to our basic personal, national, local, regional dimensions; it is enriching. it is important to remember tragedies in europe, especially at a time when we are still looking for war criminals on the continent. it is not such a long time ago that many parts of europe were full of bloody places, borders and mass graves, and it is important to remember that. i do not need to answer specific points because i covered them at the start. regarding finance, we are in negotiations. i hope that strong support by parliament, as seen recently in relation to citizenship, youth and education programmes, will be seen at the final meetings of the troika or current negotiations on the financial perspective. we will mainstream citizenship issues via different actions and different programmes, because that is important. the last point concerns the title. i think both the commission and parliament are partially correct. it is only partially correct to state that there is either europe for citizens, or citizens for europe. if you recall john fitzgerald kennedy’s message to the people, europe can be built only on the foundations of mature citizens, and a mature europe can deliver many answers to our citizens. so, we need both: europe for citizens and citizens for europe. i believe that this programme can contribute to such a mature community commission’s position on amendments by parliament: see annex.. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the report by mrs christa prets, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing a community action to promote the european capital of culture event for the years 2007 to 2019 (com (2005) 0209 c6-0157/2005 2005/0102 (cod)) (a6-0061/2006).
member of the commission. mr president, the european capital of culture action is probably one of the most popular european initiatives. it has been appreciated by member states and the general public alike since its birth 20 years ago in 1985, thanks to melina mercouri. the main idea is still to highlight the richness and diversity of european cultures and the features they share, as well as to promote greater mutual acquaintance between european citizens. this is also a topic very close to the previous one. however, our experience has shown that some aspects of the current programme of cooperation need improvement, mainly in four areas: competition between cities, the role of the selection panel, the european dimension of the action, and the monitoring process. that is why last year the commission adopted the proposal that is intended to replace the decision of 1999. that was a parliamentary request voiced by mrs prets and i promised at that time personally to introduce a new proposal. the new system should encourage member states to organise competition at national level between interested cities. a mixed selection panel should evaluate the applications as part of the national competition. that mixed panel will be made up of seven experts appointed by the institutions, together with six experts to be nominated by the member state concerned. the member state will then propose one city to the european institutions. as in the past, the council will make the final decision concerning the designation of the city. in addition, the proposal lays down streamlined and clearer criteria compared to those in the current decision. following the designation of the european capitals, a monitoring process will be put in place to provide cities with support and advice in finalising the preparation of the programme and in particular with a view to ensuring that european added value is effectively reflected. a prize will be awarded to the european capitals of culture that meet the criteria and objectives of that initiative. at the same time, i will propose a substantial increase in the community contribution to such cities participating in the programme via the culture 2007 programme. i am very pleased that parliament, the council and commission have worked in close cooperation in order to find compromise amendments suitable for all. this report is in line with the commission’s approach and clearly improves our proposal, so i think that this new scheme creates a good balance between local and national interests and enhances the european dimension. i am sure that this will increase the transparency of the selection process and the visibility of the action. i would like to confirm that the commission welcomes this report and accepts all the compromise amendments. consequently, i expect adoption of our amended proposal at first reading. i should really like to thank the committee on culture and education and in particular the rapporteur mrs prets for her efficiency and effort.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i have already said all i can say, but i would like to add something because it is my heartfelt desire that this cultural capital should really become what we have always wanted it to be, namely a promoter of european culture. this former governmental cooperation - which was in fact a governmental action - has now become an interinstitutional matter. that means we have a wonderful partnership, and as christa said, we have been heard. for years we have been asking for the jury to really have something to choose from, to really have something to evaluate, to have the cities make an effort to show a european added value and not just what they already have. this action is precisely what really brings home to us the importance of european culture. cities are the cultural carriers and mediators of the european union. you have the chance to bring together a lot of things in this competition; regional cultures can work together across borders. i can only support the idea that it is important to have a competition for that. i can say from germany that the competition for the 2010 european capital of culture was a wonderful event for us. ten cities have tried to be the best. they have taken initiatives, and these have not been sent somewhere, but they are carried on. they have established a network with the hungarian cities, and i think the commission should pay attention to that. the internet portal can be used to disseminate these things as well. i am glad that the commission is now overcoming its administrative hurdles and we have constructed a prize. it is not really a prize, but the money that is due to this city so that it can finally have this money at the beginning of its work. all in all, we have a very good case here, which also helps citizens to understand europe as the great cultural diversity, in the context of what we discussed in the last debate on citizenship.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank christa prets for her dedicated and competent work on this report. although some of the previous speakers have already mentioned the problems that have arisen in individual cases, i would like to emphasize that the history of the european capitals of culture has been, on the whole, a success story. it has benefited the individual cities which have had to reinvent themselves as cultural capitals, but it has also benefited europe as a whole, because through these european capitals of culture it has been possible to demonstrate again and again how diverse, rich and varied european culture is. i would like to focus on two aspects which are particularly important to me in the revision of this report. on the one hand, the idea of sustainability suggests that this cultural capital event should not only have an event character, but should really help to enable more social exchange, more promotion of art and culture, but also new architectural offers. this includes the question of structural change and the importance of cultural offerings for the whole of europe. on the other hand, the objective of having a truly european horizon and exchange and of emphasizing european added value is a very crucial point in the re-conception of this programme. because there's more to do here. the main way to get people excited and engaged is to show what european exchange really is, not just to refer to what you already have, but to meet many european players and to find new offers. this will make the idea of the european capital of culture even more attractive in the coming years.
member of the commission. i think the capital of culture is as popular a programme in the cultural field as erasmus is in the educational field. they're about 20 years apart, and there's a lot to talk about, about experience and about the future, if we care. i am convinced that not only the committee but also parliament want this activity to be even better and more successful, and i think we are moving in that direction. just to add, not only are the 10 cities in germany competing for the title in 2010, but also the 11 cities in hungary are an expression of interest, of a certain competition, of a certain movement or dynamic in the field of culture and cultural heritage, and that is good for all of europe. i just want to thank you and say that we are doing a lot of things that mr. sonik said: information and advice, help, we want to increase the price or financial support, which could reach 1.5 million euros. but it all depends on the vote tomorrow, on the negotiations on the financial perspective. but i am convinced that this activity, this part of cultural cooperation, deserves considerable support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the report by avril doyle, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases (pe-cons 3604/2006 c6-0065/2006 2003/0189a(cod)) (a6-0087/2006) and the report by avril doyle, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on emissions from air-conditioning systems in motor vehicles and amending council directive 70/156/eec (pe-cons 3605/2006 c6-0066/2006 2003/0189b ((cod)) (a6-0090/2006).
the council will be here tomorrow. the commissioner can say something about this today. as far as i know, mr dimas will be here tomorrow. mr. figeľ, is there anything else you'd like to say?
member of the commission. mr president, i can give the assurance that we believe that sustainability is not only a treaty principle but also the most important principle, individually and socially, in building economic progress with social and environmental responsibility. i say that as a member of the commission and as a father and politician, not just because i am replacing my colleague mr dimas. what is not environmentally friendly is not economically sound. you can be confident that we mean it. as to the question on the declaration, i am not in a position to withdraw the declaration, which i delivered on behalf of the european commission, but i can assure you that the adoption of the new legal status – the vote on the conciliation text – will have an impact on the pending cases, which have been mentioned repeatedly. we will revisit or re-examine these cases in the light of this new situation – the outcome of conciliation – especially as we will have new community legislation in this area. that is all i can say at the moment.
member of the commission. i know of no differences. i only know the commission’s position, which i have defended or stated here. we will continue in accordance with it. it is important that you take the commission’s position into account, not corridors, messages or signals. i do not know about them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i must confess that i am not satisfied with the result. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial perspective for the enlarged union, which is based on the work of the standing committee, shows that even with this result, some of the things we urgently need in the sense of european added value have been left behind or will continue to concern us for the next seven years. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget, but that it is not yet ready to take a decision on the budget. mr president, you were right to point out that parliament was not only concerned with figures. parliament was concerned with the qualitative elements, with the start of the reform of european budgetary policy, with new financial instruments, with the reduction of bureaucracy in all procedures, with the safeguarding of parliament's rights in the external policy instruments, and also with clarifying the question of how parliament is involved in a possible review in 2008/2009. in this respect, we have, in our view, sufficiently worked out this overall package of qualitative elements, the reform plans, in the interinstitutional agreement, through joint declarations and through unilateral declarations, and at least we have taken a path that is everywhere a step forward towards a better quality european budgetary policy. what we have now agreed on in terms of figures was for parliament, given our detailed knowledge of the programmes, - we have gone deeper into the analysis than the council has ever done - the absolute pain point. but if, for example, we have succeeded in sending 40,000 more students to european exchanges, for example, in the area of lifelong learning or overall competitiveness for growth and employment, by an additional eur 2.1 billion, then our commitment to european added value has paid off. i would like to express my gratitude to the entire negotiating team, chaired by janusz lewandowski, and to my colleagues ralf walter and jan mulder for their excellent cooperation, and i would also like to express my gratitude to the group coordinators. it is only by being very inter-group and being a united negotiating team and acting together that it was possible to achieve this result. i would like to thank you very much for that. (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. mr president, i am very pleased to be here today to share with you my satisfaction with the agreement reached by negotiators from the european parliament, the council and the commission on the 2007-2013 financial perspectives. i would like, in particular, to congratulate mr böge, mr lewandowski, mr mulder and mr walter for their remarkable job, which i know was done under very difficult conditions. i would also like to thank chancellor schüssel and his finance minister, for their untiring efforts to reach an agreement. i have followed the negotiations very closely, determined to ensure that we reached a good agreement. i can tell you that i am proud of the role played by the commission – namely by commissioner grybauskaitė – during the negotiations, which were very difficult. i truly believe that the outcome of those negotiations is clearly better than the agreement reached at the european council. knowing at first hand how hard it has been to get to this stage, i can honestly say that this is a success. it is good news for europe because it means we now have the funds to match our ambitions for the development of the union over the next seven years. we now have a clear financial framework to boost development of the ten new member states that joined in 2004, and of the two new member states still to come. i am particularly pleased that we will have increased funding for programmes directly related to the new lisbon agenda, namely, research, lifelong learning, trans-european networks, competitiveness and innovation. almost eur 50 billion will be available over the next seven years to enhance the research effort at union level. moreover, for the first time the agreement entails a joint effort with the european investment bank. european investment bank funds act as catalysts for public and private investors in research and technological development, as well as trans-european networks and small and medium-sized enterprises. there will also be significant increases in funding in the important area of justice and home affairs. another of my priorities, as you will recall – it was the subject of my letters to the president-in-office of the council, and of some of my statements here in parliament – was to secure additional funding for programmes that reach out to our citizens, such as culture, youth, health and consumer protection. that has now been achieved. that would not have been possible if we had not worked together to increase that funding after the agreement at the european council. i have also taken note of the comments made on this matter just now by mr böge. our spending on external actions will also increase, enabling us to continue to promote european values in the wider world. thanks to that agreement, it will be possible to enhance substantially the union’s common foreign and security policy. the agreement reached by the negotiators will now have to be endorsed by parliament and the council. we hope this happens without further delay. we have also worked hard to ensure that the future budget of the european union will be based on principles of sound financial management. i also take very good note of what mr böge just said on that: it is not just about figures. figures have increased, yes, but it is not just about figures, it is about transparency, it is about accountability, it is about the quality of the expenditure and the quality of the way we work together – parliament, the council and the commission. it is fair to say that the role of parliament in the process has been strengthened and it will also play an important role in the review of the financial perspectives, which will be one of the top priorities in the coming years. i can confirm to you today something i have said on several occasions: as you know, we have been asked by the council to come up with a proposal for a ‘review clause’ for the future of the financial perspectives and we want to work as closely as possible with parliament on that matter. i know it was difficult. i know that not everybody is happy and nobody will be completely happy – let me say that the commission is not completely happy – but it was once again a good demonstration of our commitment and our spirit of partnership, that is why i want warmly to congratulate all negotiators. i think we should celebrate this achievement and then move swiftly to build on the momentum created by this agreement to accelerate and complete the legislative process necessary to get all programmes up and running as from next year. we have no more time to lose. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! it has been a long and difficult journey, and without the european parliament we would not be where we are today. i would recommend to all of us that we not only look at the national interest or the supposed national interest, but that we look at the common interest, the interests of the european union, of the common europe. if we had not had this in mind, we would not now have this result to which we say 'yes, but'. mr böge has rightly said that we are not entirely satisfied, but we also know that more could not be achieved. i would like to thank my colleagues from the european parliament - janusz lewandowski, who chaired the working group, reimer böge, ralf walter and jan mulder - for their convincing work. we can be proud that we had such a negotiating group that achieved this goal. we have a great responsibility to the european union. it is not so much about money as it is about democracy, parliamentarism, transparency and openness. it is a question of winning the citizens for europe, so that this europe is convincing. we therefore want the national authorities to be responsible for making sure that european money is spent wisely when it is spent at national level. if there are deficits, they cannot always be blamed on the european union, but the national authorities must bear their responsibility. we insist that the european parliament be involved in the audit of european union expenditure in 2008/09. i say with all my heart that the bargaining we have had in recent weeks and months must not be repeated! it must be the last time we've had such unconvincing negotiations. i fully support you, mr president of the european council, in thinking about how we can give the european union an own revenue which does not burden the citizens but which ensures that we have the resources to do europe's job. let's work together to achieve this. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. it's less than we wanted, it's more than many of us expected, and it's a triumph of reason. the interinstitutional agreement sets out a number of elements which i attach particular importance to. the first point is the revision clause. we will return to the whole numbering system in 2008-09. so for those who are now dissatisfied with everything, it is part of the process that has been set in motion in changing the eu budget, so it is a first step. the commission has committed itself to submit proposals to take the necessary further steps in 2008-2009 on the revision clause. the european council in brussels in december agreed on a new approach to financial management. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. what we have promised each other and what we have agreed to do is a great step forward. we have made another major step forward, namely that the member states must now prove their expenditure in a separate report, as mr poettering has just said, in defiance of the motto: 'success is national, failure is in brussels'. the member states must now be held accountable for the actual use of funds by themselves and their authorities: that is an important point that has been agreed. more money has also been raised, and i would like to say specifically here: thank you to reimer böge, to jan mulder, to mr lewandowski. but i would also like to thank our colleague, mr ralf walter, on behalf of my group, who - as the other colleagues confirm - negotiated hard for our group in the final phase. he's from the moselle and used to flooding. whenever the water is at its highest, ralf runs to his highest form. so thank him very much. i would like to conclude by thanking the commission - this is something i rarely say - for its constructive cooperation at this stage. we also thank you, mr schüssel, for your presidency of the council. we know that you will have a lot of work to do. but as constructive as your negotiations have been, you can count on our support among the anti-brexiteers in the council, who you must now win over to your side. i think, all in all, yesterday was a good day. (applause from the centre)
the president of the council. parliament i am very pleased to welcome president borrell, you, ladies and gentlemen, and the members of the commission as president of the council. i am now making my second speech to you, and you may recall what i promised at the beginning of the austrian presidency, namely that we do not want to have a presidency with our own issues, wishes and aspirations, but a team presidency, in which we want to work very well with you, the democratically elected european parliament, with the commission and, of course, with the member states. we can only solve this gigantic task of regaining the confidence of the citizens together, and we must tackle the great tasks which only europe can solve together. we must use all the institutions. it is not worth pointing out or criticizing one institution over another. we are in a boat and must row together firmly so that we can gain pace and reach our destination. i think you can also appreciate that we have been working towards this cooperation within a team presidency from the very beginning. without any major announcements, we have been able to reach a number of solutions with you and the commission in the past weeks and months. i would like to begin by briefly describing the european council. a year ago, under the luxembourg presidency, we set out to give a new impetus to the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. it is not enough to find formulae that are clouded by rhetoric, but we need results and action in the spirit of schuman, who once said: europe will not be built in a day. the european council has also adopted a resolution on the future of the european union, which calls for the european union to take a more active role in the world of work, and for the european union to play a more active role in the world of work. the president of the european trade union confederation, cándido méndez rodriguez, was present. the president of the european employers' association unice, ernest-antoine seillière, took part in the discussions, and for the first time the president of the european central bank, jean-claude trichet, was also present. of course, josep borrell has made a very important contribution, the voice of parliament, to this debate on the economy and employment. we have set ourselves very specific objectives as a presidency. you could see from the media that many of these goals were very controversial. we have not been discouraged and have included some very specific issues in the conclusions, particularly in the area of jobs and growth. the most important thing for us is to improve the employment situation of the approximately 18 million unemployed in europe. in concrete terms, we want to achieve 1% employment growth through the national reform programmes and through an improvement in the framework conditions. this will create about 2 million jobs a year. by 2010, this would be a net addition of 10 million jobs. the second point is that we want to focus very consciously on the education of young people. 85 per cent of young people aged up to 22 years are to receive higher education. we are going to reduce the number of school leavers to 10%, and we are going to make it a point to offer every young person within six months of next year either a job, an apprenticeship or a further training opportunity. the commission will then reduce this period to four months. we have agreed on a pact for gender equality in the world of work. the issue of 'flexicurity' is being discussed very intensively at all levels. the globalisation fund proposed by the commission is a sensible instrument to provide those workers who are facing problems as a result of structural change with a new chance on the labour market through retraining or further training. the next big issue, of course, is how to achieve that. we have decided to concentrate on small and mediumsized enterprises, which in the past have sometimes been treated rather as stepmothers. we have looked at how we can make life easier for the 23 million or so small and mediumsized enterprises by reducing the number of administrative procedures and by abolishing administrative regulations. the commission, with günter verheugen and president barroso, is providing a decisive boost with 'better regulation', a very intensive programme modelled on the dutch programme, which reduces administrative work by 25%. we want to make it easier for young entrepreneurs to start a business. the aim is to have a new plant in place within a week, and a single point of contact to ensure that small businesses do not have to go to 100 administrations, but can act as quickly as possible. i am very grateful to the commission - i know it was not easy internally - for raising the de minimis threshold. the doubling of this threshold is a very important impulse which will enable us to make life much easier and to promote the development of small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the third theme is knowledge and research. we know very well that we cannot compete with our wage levels in europe unless we do more for education, research and knowledge. of course, we set the 3% target in the year 2000. we just didn't follow through. the new thing about these conclusions is that we have got each country to make a commitment in an annex to the conclusions on how to achieve this 3% target in each individual year up to 2010. i say the same thing about the previous debate: if we succeed - and this will of course require considerable effort - then this means that an additional 100 billion euros per year will be invested in research from national budgets and the private sector. this would be the biggest boost to growth that could ever be given in this field. the european investment bank is helping us with 10 billion euros of additional risk capital. if we add the private contributions, we get about 30 billion extra impulses. it is particularly significant to me that the european council has taken up your idea, mr josé manuel, of creating a european institute of technology. this idea was also very controversial at first, because of course some people are afraid that it will create large parallel bureaucracies. others fear that existing facilities of excellence may fall short. i fully support the basic idea put forward by the commission here, namely to create a link between academia and industry, between research and innovation on the one hand and users on the other. it is not a super-authority, but a perfectly developed network which really cooperates with the institutions in the member states. i congratulate josé manuel barroso and the commission on the fact that this proposal has been taken up and supported, and we also expect concrete legislative proposals by june this year. the commission has also made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you heard it: 800 million extra now in the budget compromise. this is a very interesting and important impulse to give young people a new perspective. what was interesting was that i had read some studies carefully which criticised why we had not yet achieved the ambitious goals of our lisbon strategy, jobs, employment. one of the reasons mentioned in the sapir report and also by the european policy centre was that there is too little national ownership - a terrible word. in other words, nobody in the national member states really feels responsible for this. i will go on with a good example: i decided at the last council of ministers in austria that we should raise the coordinator to the level of ministers. our minister of economy and labour will be the political coordinator of this whole process. i will invite each member state to follow this path so that we have political coordinators who can then, if possible in the competition council, look after the implementation of the objectives they have chosen. this would be a very important impulse to make what we have decided to do here credible. a new topic was, of course, energy policy. this is where german chancellor angela merkel started. i also thank tony blair for actually starting this in hampton court. of course, the first of january of this year was a real wake-up call, a wake-up call. the russians cut energy supplies by 30% on the first night, 50% on the second night, while i was sitting with angela merkel at the new year's concert. we have managed to defuse this crisis within four days with the commission, with commissioner piebalgs and many others, but the problems are still there, of course. almost all producers live in areas of political crisis. almost all global conflicts have something to do with energy. we have a lot of fluctuating commodity prices. we have a low diversification. the risk of blackouts in europe is still highest in some areas and at some times. climate change and its consequences are a subject for us. the question of the world's increasing demand for energy needs to be answered, and we also have, of course, enormous security risks that we need to see. this calls for a new joint european effort, and the commission has done a first-class job in preparing the green paper. the european council has taken up this matter and we have defined three objectives: security of supply, competitiveness of our economy and improvement of the quality of the environment. in concrete terms, 20% energy savings have been agreed. i think this is very important, because it is not something that is taken for granted. in reality, this means that the union is aiming to achieve a sustainable decoupling of economic growth and energy consumption. i believe that this is one of the most important decisions of this council and it will require enormous efforts to put it into practice. we want to increase the share of renewable energy from the current 7% to 15%. this, too, has been very controversial and is not an automatic process. we have a lot to do nationally and together. the share of biofuels, which is currently 2%, is to be increased to 8%. the only way to do this is through technology, through research, which includes the issues of second generation biofuels, the implementation of cars 21, cooperation with the automotive industry. there is a huge growth opportunity here that we want to exploit. cross-border electricity trade: we have established 10% of the bridges between the grids and international electricity trade, which means a much lower risk of blackout for our consumers. don't forget the economic opportunity that lies in the pipelines, the networks, the power plants and the security of the grid. this is a volume of investment of between 800 and 1 000 billion euro, mostly private capital. if we use this through a wise common european economic policy, it will be a huge job booster and make us even safer. this is one of them, and we have also had this discussion honestly, without any public debate: there can be no protectionism in a relatively small market like europe. i know what i am talking about, i was minister for economic affairs and energy for six years. the time is over when everyone can create a national champion on his own or thinks he can get around european rules. (applause from the centre) we need to open up the markets here, and it has also been agreed that the electricity and gas markets will be opened up by mid-2007. the instruments are there, the commission has them, and the commission should apply them without further ado, because that is why it is the guardian of the contracts, so that it can guarantee the security of supply for consumers. the energy mix remains important, however, and the choice of energy source remains a national responsibility. i'm making that very clear. each country must decide for itself whether it wants to have nuclear power plants or not. we austrians have a very clear position here - others have too, i know that - and that must be respected. i guarantee that, and of course the european parliament guarantees that too. it will be very important that we look at this not just economically, but in the context of foreign policy. it was therefore agreed that the commission, together with the high representative, javier solana, would present a strategy paper on the external dimension of energy policy. in retrospect, this debate and these decisions will be seen as a real breakthrough towards a new european energy policy. we will also ensure that this issue is not forgotten by means of reviews in each semester of the next presidency. but it also seems to me very important - and it was not easy to achieve this consensus, i had to invest a lot of time in the run-up and i spoke to every single head of government - that i got everyone to adopt the democratic and by a large majority decision of the european parliament on the services directive. (applause from the centre) i also thank the commission for having already put forward a proposal today which, as far as i have seen so far, is in line with this consensus. i would ask that we work as closely as possible in an accelerated second reading procedure to reach a joint decision quickly. i would also like to thank the social partners at european level for their participation. this was not easy for employers, but they cooperated in a very constructive way. after this breakthrough - i see the services directive as such - i am also asking for a similar commitment in a second important area, namely the working time directive. we all know that it is important and good that we make progress in this area. but we will need to be very sensitive to cover national specificities. i think this is a classic area where the principle of subsidiarity can be applied. it is better to have a reasonable compromise than no solution at all. i would be very pleased if we could make real progress together on three levels during the austrian presidency: service, working time directive and budget. that brings me to the budget. it was a difficult birth, i know that myself. some of you are smiling because you know very well, of course, that three presidencies have worked hard on this issue - and this is not taken for granted - luxembourg, the united kingdom and now austria. it is a question of a seven-year budget, it is a question of legal certainty for the programmes, it is a question, especially in the case of the new member states, of being able to implement what they hope for. i really appreciate that we have thought of the whole and not of the individual interests. believe me, i've had to cross a lot of internal security lines to get to this consensus. you know that behind this is also a great deal of commitment by the negotiating team of the austrian presidency - the minister for finance, the minister for foreign affairs and, of course, myself in contact with josé manuel barroso and, thankfully, with josep borrell. we had to be very close to the december compromise, as you know. our security line was 3.5 billion at most. parliament wanted at least 4 billion, and it speaks for the team presidency we have jointly run, that the commission then helped us in the end, that it added the half billion still missing in administrative costs, so that parliament got its wishes fulfilled at least four billion in the programmes . if we now analyse this with the involvement of the european investment bank, we come to some interesting results. there is one billion for strengthening the union's external dimension. a clear strengthening of the common foreign and security policy, plus one billion. then there is 5 billion euros for the lisbon strategy, half from the european budget and the other half from the european investment bank, in cash. the rest is loans: the budget for research is increased to 10 billion, for transeuropean networks to 20 billion, for small and mediumsized enterprises to 30 billion, for a total of 60 billion. there has been a lot of movement, and i think we can wholeheartedly recommend that compromise. i too must now go to coreper and the other member states, but i think we have achieved something here that we can absolutely represent to the outside world. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. but that's not a primary issue today. i am only concerned about one subject because i saw alexander milinkevich upstairs and that was also a subject at the european council. the situation in belarus is of course a dramatic one. i want to say this for myself. i had the honour and pleasure yesterday of having a long, personal conversation with alexander milinkevich. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the opposition is a platform made up of various groups. after the brutal crackdown on the protesters by the state authorities, hundreds are still in prison, thousands of students have lost their university places, workers have lost their jobs, families have lost their income. some member states have joined, the visegrad countries, for example, poland, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary, and austria is also joining in offering scholarships to belarusian students. i would also like to ask the commission to support us in this matter so that we can really help belarus. we must, above all, raise our voices together and demand the immediate release of the prisoners, especially the presidential candidate alexander kosulin. (applause from the centre) we should also stress that the union has no interest in isolating belarus or even the belarusian population. we should above all support belarusian civil society in the realisation of its democratic aspirations. the regime will remain the target of our restrictive measures agreed at the european council as long as authoritarian methods and the systematic repression of civil society continue. we have three months left in the presidency. we have a lot of work to do, i know that. i trust that, as in the past, we will be able to resolve the important issues in very close and good contacts and in good cooperation. i am very confident that you will continue to contribute, even if critically and with a certain degree of challenge, if you have certain ideas or concepts. i promise you full cooperation and i will try to make as much progress as possible at council level, without any big noise or announcements, but rather in the sense of concrete results. this is my programme and i think i can make a good showing in the first half of it. (applause from the centre)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fashionable scepticism and a certain cynicism which is taking hold today, i believe that it is safe to say that europe, despite the difficult times it is experiencing, is moving forward, and the european council of 23 and 24 march has shown that enlarged europe can also move forward. the positive dynamic that started last autumn has put the european level and our institutions back at the heart of the debate. the message from the european council is clear. the main problems of economic growth and employment require a european response. a week before the spring european council, i presented to you here the issues at stake at this meeting, a meeting which was crucial because it was the first time that the renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs was to be implemented. i can tell you today that the objectives set by the commission have been achieved. i am thinking not only of the excellent reception of our green paper on energy, but also of other concrete proposals, in particular the one concerning the european institute of technology. i am not merely speaking on behalf of the commission when i say this, but i am also speaking for the general european interest: i believe that we can honestly welcome the results of this spring european council. guided by the excellent work and perseverance of the austrian presidency, the heads of state and government accepted the principle of partnership for the new lisbon strategy. they expressed their readiness to move up to the next level and also took major decisions that put the effective implementation of our commitments under the new lisbon strategy on track. now we have some mechanisms to follow up. we have 25 national reform programmes. the european parliament, national parliaments, political forces, the social partners and public opinion in general can now enter into a logic of results for measures; they can move from the rhetorical phase to the concrete measurement phase. the order was in english delivery: the concrete presentation of the results. the key example chosen by the european council is the progress towards a genuine energy policy for europe. whoever writes the history of european integration in twenty or twenty-five years' time will be able to say, without exaggeration, that the launch of an energy policy for europe took place in march 2006, under the austrian presidency. we're just getting started, and it's not gonna be easy. there will be resistance, but there is resistance because there is movement. if there was no movement, there would be no resistance! i can assure you on behalf of the commission that it will exercise all its powers in the field of integration, because - and we want to say this emphatically - there is no reason for having 25 energy markets in europe. there is no reason for europe to have 25 national energy policies today. we need a common energy strategy for europe. there is no need for nationalistic reflexes. the member states reaffirmed their willingness to work together to find common solutions and recognised the commission's central role in the establishment of open and competitive markets throughout the union. we have no time to lose on the lisbon agenda and we must now achieve results. it is in this spirit that vice-president verheugen and i met, immediately after the european council, with the national coordinators for the implementation of the lisbon agenda. we have informed them of the commission's willingness to play its full role in supporting and accompanying, but also monitoring the implementation of the national reform programmes. i would like to congratulate chancellor schüssel on his recent announcement that he intends to increase the level of representation for the follow-up of the lisbon process in his country, austria. we are also taking the opportunity to call on all member states to do the same. good technical preparation is of course important and we are very pleased with the technical level achieved for this exercise in the various member states. that said, we also believe that it is important for the success of the programme to raise ownership up the political hierarchy, as the chancellor has just announced in regard to austria. the commission will also continue to provide impetus at european level. we also agreed to start exchanges of practical experience. we believe that the time has come to hold meetings in the various member states, which we will do as from autumn. this close contact with the member states is essential to moving our programme forward but it is not enough. let me here join parliament in its strong message that all the actors involved should be involved more and more widely in this crucial stage of implementation. we have made efforts to clarify the levels of responsibility and competence of the various institutional, economic and social actors at european, national and regional levels. we must now encourage all these actors to make the lisbon strategy their own. i ask you to focus all our energies on the reforms that are essential to prepare europe to meet the challenges of globalisation, and also the challenges of ageing. we can win the battle of globalization. to achieve this we must all also participate in communication efforts and public debate. i welcome the partnership between the european parliament and the national parliaments. in january you discussed the lisbon strategy in this context. i can only encourage you to continue this dialogue and offer you the commission's assistance. your parliament and the national parliaments are the key players in this debate, as they collectively represent the citizens of europe. we will not succeed in the necessary reforms without the broad support of the citizens who are the ultimate beneficiaries of our efforts. there was vision in this european council, but it was also a practical european council. it left everyone with an in-tray of work for the coming months. not least, it gave the commission a clear mandate for action over the coming months, and i want to particularly thank chancellor schüssel for his teamwork, team spirit, the way he understood, the way he supported the role of the commission and the need to give consistency and continuity over time for the work that will follow different presidencies of the european council. that approach of partnership between the council, the commission and parliament is essential. without that spirit and cooperation we will not be able to achieve real progress. one area where the parliament's role has already been decisive in finding a compromise was and is precisely that of the services directive. it took some time to convince the heads of state and government, but eventually the european council backed the line that parliament agreed to and that also received our support. if you remember, from the beginning i have said, and the commission has said, that if there was a real, clear consensus from parliament, we would be ready to work with you to resolve this services directive issue. yesterday, we presented to you our amended proposal and you see that it fully reflects the compromise endorsed by a large majority in this house in february. the revised text preserves the balance between the urgent need to unleash the full potential of the internal market for services and the preservation of our european social model. in parallel, we presented the communication providing clear guidance on the application of community rules on the posting of workers. as for freedom of movement for workers, i also want to commend the announcement made by several member states following the commission report in terms of anticipating the end of the transition period for the free movement of workers. after ireland, britain and sweden, we now have finland, spain, portugal and most recently the netherlands, which have announced their wish to anticipate such freedom of movement for workers, so that is the way for us really to have an enlarged europe that works. we will also follow this amended version of the services directive with a communication on social services of general interest. we are also working hard on health services. on the basis of the text now presented, i expect the council and parliament to conclude the legislative procedure swiftly. i would also like to mention three areas where i believe the european council took decisions which will have a real and lasting impact. first, business: we all know that for new jobs we must look to business and small and medium-sized enterprises, because they create most of the jobs. the decision to cut red tape for new business is a sign that europe is now becoming open for business. as for smes, i was glad that the commission received support for its approach on state aid rules and for cutting administrative burdens. we will take this work forward swiftly. secondly, knowledge: the proposal for a european institute of technology excited some debate. good for you. i take it as a sign that the eit has real importance. a flagship for european excellence in education, research and innovation is a genuinely new idea which needs imagination and drive to work. with the green light from the european council, we will be working to flesh out the plans and to show how the european institute of technology will be an effective catalyst for knowledge and growth in europe. as i said in my introduction, the european council paid particular attention to energy. it put the union on the path to a real energy policy for europe. it endorsed the triple goals of our green paper: sustainable, competitive and secure energy. it also sets out the practical measures to be taken, including some of the 20 specific proposals set out in the commission's green paper: a real internal market for energy, a coherent external policy, effective support for energy efficiency and renewables. the commission's forward programme for energy is now very busy. as a result, i really believe that specific measures will be delivered. it was important for this not to be a one-shot show. now it is very fashionable to talk about energy, and now member states accept what let us be frank two years ago would have been impossible to accept: that we need a common strategy. so, for the june european council, as chancellor schüssel said, the commission and the high representative will come up with some ideas on the external dimension of energy policy. we decided to put that matter under constant review, monitoring it every year at the spring council. that was important in terms of consistency. after all those internal points, the european council was also able to send a strong message of commitment on the belarus situation. the commission is working very actively with the council to promote the strengthening of civil society in belarus and to support independent media so that the citizens of belarus have access to media that is not censored and not controlled by a government that does not respect the fundamental principles of a democratic state. we are now moving in the right direction. we are putting words into action. we know what we should do; we agreed to do it, and now we are doing it. we are doing it in partnership with the european parliament, the european council and member states, and also with businesses, trade unions, consumers and citizens across europe. i believe that is the only way to deliver more growth and new jobs. i believe that is the right way to get out of a very negative situation for europe. as i said earlier, there is now a feeling in europe of scepticism, sometimes cynicism. the right way to change that is to deliver concrete results, to settle the services directive issue, as we have been doing, to settle the financial perspectives, as i hope will now be done. i will not comment on that now, because i did that in my introductory remarks. so, if we can achieve results, we will create the best atmosphere for settling the institutional problems that have to be settled and for creating a new impetus for this europe. that is our duty. we should do more to achieve it. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the president of the european council, mr wolfgang schüssel, spoke of the common responsibility of the european institutions. and the president of the commission has just spoken of the deeds. i have the impression, mr president of the european parliament, that we - including the three of you and the entire european parliament - are today in a situation where this sense of community and this shared responsibility for the future of the european union is becoming clear. i believe that this is a good opportunity, also in other matters that we are not debating today - such as the constitutional treaty, where we have to find a solution - to create, through concrete actions, a psychology that makes it possible to make this european union convincing for the people here. this is our shared responsibility. mr president of the european council, i am very pleased with the way in which you are working with us and with the commission, in a manner that is not spectacular but professional and efficient, and inspired by european conviction, to work actively on the common future of europe. brussels is often wrongly seen as a symbol of bureaucracy. we will succeed if we - and i am addressing the commission in particular - make the lisbon process a success by making it clear that: we want less bureaucracy, we want more freedom for the internal market. the stronger this single market is, the more we will succeed in opening up the market in the european union and the services directive is an important instrument for this; the less legislation, the less subsidies, the more competition, the more competitive we will be in world markets. that is why our line must be: less laws, more freedom for businesses, especially for smes. the less red tape and costs smes have to bear, the more jobs they will be able to create. this is the main concern, because it is not about the economy in the abstract, but about the people of the european union. that is why i am pleased, mr president of the european council, that you have just spoken of young people. because if young people don't have a perspective, then this is actually the worst thing. we must do everything we can to prevent this! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i say she 's right about that . the european union is based on solidarity. we need a european energy policy. but i also say to the polish government: if it is demanding solidarity here, then we expect it to show the same solidarity when it comes to the future of the elements, the substance, the principles of the constitutional treaty. solidarity is not a one-way street. we keep running into each other. we must be united in solidarity for our european future. a final remark, since time is running out. we may have to think about how parliament and the group chairmen can express themselves adequately. it does not have to be as long as the president of the european council and the president of the commission, but we must arrive at a more appropriate distribution of time. mr president, we have just been welcoming. my group has specifically invited him to be here today. we must never lose sight of what is our foundation in the debate on energy and the economy: our values, human rights, human dignity. that is why we are standing up for democracy in belarus. and if we do that, we are also convincing in the defence of human rights in europe and in the world. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission! the european council is a very important institution. the last council meeting showed that the council too has the will to revitalize the european project. we take note of that. my colleague poul nyrup rasmussen, president of the party of european socialists, presented on behalf of our party before the last council meeting an action plan for growth and employment which we had drawn up with the socialist ministers for economic affairs and finance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is what you have just said when you pointed out that the eib's available resources will be used to achieve this. that is a good social democratic way. you can count on our support. as regards energy policy, to which i wish to return because you have placed it at the centre of your report on the european council, it is true that we need a common european strategy. the strategy must first of all take account of the fact that member states decide their own energy policy. i must ask you to allow me to return to the following point. you have repeatedly demonstrated that you were with the chancellor at the new year's concert when russia turned off the gas. i don't know if there's a causal link between the two actions. but let's leave that aside. you could do me a favor and the chancellor - not at the next new year's concert, but when you meet her before - say: "angela, leave the fins of energy policy, as i do. if you take the right step in the nuclear field, you will receive a lot of support, not only in your country but also in germany. the crucial question is: how do we deal with energy policy in solidarity? the council must decide and cannot act like buridan's donkey. he stood between two haystacks and died of hunger at the end because he didn't know which haystack to eat from. i think that is the case in almost all areas of the european council. we have always had the same problem: we hear the council's cheap declarations on european needs, and when the members of the council - your fellow heads of state or government - go home, they have forgotten their european oaths and turn exclusively to their national public. this is precisely the crisis that europe as a whole must overcome as an institution. the european parliament is making its contribution. we have put in place a sensible services directive - the commission said yesterday that it had adopted it - and for me one of the highlights of the outcome of the last council meeting was that the council unanimously said: yes, we are making this the basis of our common position. that's a good sign. it shows that europe is moving forward under the leadership of the european parliament. unfortunately, we cannot leave this to the council and the commission alone. that's why you'll keep on following us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the austrian presidency is doing a good job. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you're a very skilled man. you promised silvio berlusconi that you would help him save europe from communism, only to meet romano prodi a few hours later. you know how to combine different interests in a way that's good for wolfgang schüssel. if we can use this together for the good of the european union, then you have us by your side. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it is true that this spring summit has not failed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the promise to create 10 million jobs is very reminiscent of the rhetoric of the first lisbon summit. the focus on youth is also rather rhetorical. if you look at the youth in france, they don't seem to notice much of it. the globalisation fund is, in my view, a reward for those who refuse to reform, and we have structural and cohesion policies to accompany structural change. martin schulz is also right when he says that the member states are not doing enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common energy policy. the member states are not expected to do much in this respect. it is all the more encouraging that the commission is now finally taking action and bringing proceedings against member states in the energy markets, including protectionism in france. the answer must therefore be not to make promises as in the past but to allow more competition. the commission is finally doing something about this, and that gives hope. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we look at the lisbon strategy in a two-track process - through the european budget on the one hand and the national framework plans on the other - then the question that really arises is whether the compromise now being sought in the context of the european budget is really sufficient to provide the necessary funds. i say no! nor is it the same as if you look at national budgets: the necessary funds for research and development, for training and education are simply not being raised accordingly. you said at your summit that more must be done for small and mediumsized enterprises. that's right! but if i want to do something for small and mediumsized enterprises and create jobs, then i have to do something to make public investment go up. unfortunately, these do not go upwards, not in the member states. i have to do something to boost domestic demand. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the wrong way. we must replace the lisbon strategy with a strategy of european solidarity and sustainability. look at the results: the poverty line has not changed. it has remained at 16% since 2000. longterm unemployment rose from 3.9% to 4.1% over this period. the employment rate improved slightly from 63% to 64%. we are far from what we have planned, and that is because the strategy is wrong. the lisbon strategy, as it is designed, will not bring us anything.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i have two brief remarks. firstly, i am very pleased that we were able to reach agreement on the financial framework last night, and that we now have enough time to get things under way in 2007 and to implement all the programmes. we have great confidence, mr president of the commission, that you will then approve and examine very soon what is being provided by the member states in the structural policy, so that we do not lose time. secondly, since we are talking about the summit. i do not believe that competitiveness can be decreed from above. something like this has to grow from the bottom up. i hope, of course, mr president-in-office, that all the things you have said this morning will be put into practice on the ground. if i see that in germany today it still takes seven to eight weeks before you can start a company, because we send people from pontius to pilate, then something must be done on the ground. i hope that the impulses you have given will also contribute to this. mr schulz, it is well known, particularly in the border area of aachen, how uncompetitive german legislation is in north rhine-westphalia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a question on the rules of procedure. i don't see mr farage in the room. could it be that the united kingdom independence party has taken its place at the top of the rostrum? (cheers and applause)
chairman of the foreign affairs committee. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. in the elections in both palestine and israel, despite the different outcomes, it is still clear to me that the vast majority of citizens on both sides are moderate, that they want peace and that they are in favour of an end to the violence. it is important that we reach an agreement that is sustainable. that is why this must be a negotiated agreement, because only negotiated agreements accepted by both sides are viable. it is important that we contribute to this and that the quartet in particular is present on the ground, on a larger scale than before, through its top people, to provide appropriate security guarantees and support. i am aware that palestine must be a viable state and that we must therefore continue to provide humanitarian aid. how far this can go with the autonomous authority remains to be seen. when i read on xinhua that the new foreign minister of palestine said, "i hope that our dream of having an independent state on the entire territory of historical palestine will be realized one day, and i am sure that there is no room for the state of israel on this land", that is not a good statement these days. maybe that's a wrong quote. but in any case, it should be corrected so that things can move in a sensible direction. it is quite clear that the renunciation of violence and the recognition of the right of the state of israel to exist will continue to be among the essential conditions for good relations with a palestinian government which wants to have support - especially financial support. there is a correlation between regional peace and world peace. that is why we should do our part to ensure that the new team, after the elections, succeeds in making a breakthrough in the new situation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to begin by welcoming our guests from belarus, mr milinkevich and mr vinsuk vyatschorka, on behalf of the green group. our group has great respect for the achievements and courage of the active opposition movement in belarus. they have protested peacefully against the electoral fraud despite the threat of violence. we too believe that lukashenko is no longer legally in office. we admire the sovereignty, calm and clarity with which you, mr milinkevich, handled the difficult situations in the square and in kupala park. i'm very proud of that achievement. we have seen the police brutalizing peaceful protesters in the news. the arrest, the trial, the expulsion of many of their comrades is the result of the fact that they have simply taken away their right to freedom of expression, a fundamental right which is taken for granted in the countries of the european union. but we believe that they are the new power in the country and can bring democracy and economic recovery to this country. we hope that the spirit of freedom in belarus remains awake. mr winkler, i thank you for having accepted many of our demands. but please, in the visa ban, do not forget those who have imprisoned the protesters in this brutal way. you need to be on that list. do not forget also what colleagues have said before that putin holds lukashenko and that this must be put at the centre of the talks with russia. (applause from the centre)
the next item is a statement by the council and the commission on the elections in ukraine.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not what was the most important experience for me as an election observer in ukraine? it was the observation of the genuine dedication with which many citizens exercised their right to vote, which they had won a year ago. it is almost shocking to come back from such an election to germany and hear how insignificant this right is in germany today, how few people know how to evaluate this right correctly. my conclusion from this experience is that europe can benefit enormously from this process in ukraine. we cannot continue with this business as usual, which has crept into the relations between the european union and ukraine a year after the orange revolution. my impression - and i am also referring to the stirring speech given by the writer yuri andruchowytsch in leipzig - is that the hope for europe is already dying in kiev. this can't happen. the council must therefore be more precise and more ambitious in its proposals to ukraine. the former enlargement commissioner, mr verheugen, said that there would be no place for ukraine in the union for another 20 years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just want to answer a few questions. mr tannock, i am deeply impressed by your report on the elections. i would not go so far as to compare ukraine's election law with the law of our countries, as different countries have different election laws, but the important thing is that the elections in ukraine were indeed fair and democratic and i think that is very important. i was also very impressed by the election observers who told us about the great enthusiasm. to preserve this enthusiasm and also the faith in the european union, we must now take concrete steps. we're ready to do that. i am also of the opinion that it is not reasonable to speak of specific periods. but to walk without stumbling, one should take one step ahead of the other. we should, and we shouldn't skip steps. the next step is to seek closer cooperation. there is a specific reason for this and the council will do so together with the commission. we are doing this to help ukraine develop further and also to implement the necessary reforms. if mr kaminski said that we are not entitled to judge elections and parties, he was absolutely right. but we can say with satisfaction that those forces which are in favour of closer relations with the european union have won and have the majority. we should therefore also extend our hands.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'll be brief too. i just want to assure you that we're not going to have a routine here. i'm sorry mrs harms left already, because i would have liked to have told her that in person. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. because if you look at what is involved - apart from a strengthened political dialogue - it is above all cooperation in legal matters and in areas that are particularly important: justice and home affairs. the first point: what is particularly close to our hearts and which was also raised in the debate is, of course, the question of energy policy, which for all of us is increasingly an essential question of foreign policy. in addition, the free trade agreement, which i mentioned earlier. so there can be no question of a routine here. secondly, as the commissioner responsible for this, i have always been extremely precise in my statements, perhaps too precise for some. i would like to make it quite clear that the future cannot be prejudged. i always said in english, "the future cannot be prejudged". but at the moment we are working with the instrument of a neighbourhood policy. the neighborhood policy doesn't provide for membership. i'm not sure how to be more specific. but that does not mean that we will not continue to work for ukraine with a great deal of enthusiasm and fervour, as our president-in-office has said. we are delighted with this election. they represent a very big step forward, and i'm glad that so many of you have watched them and share that view with us.
the debate was closed by the tabling of six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on measures to improve road safety (safety) and transport safety measures, including their financing (security).
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank you very much for dealing with the subject of road safety today. as you know, raising awareness of this issue in all european countries is a particular concern of the austrian presidency, in order to lay another essential foundation for a common european road safety culture. the presidency therefore held the informal meeting in bregenz, austria, on 2 and 3 march, to focus on road safety at european level for two days. in the course of this meeting and in the context of numerous bilateral talks, we also succeeded in living up to the austrian presidency motto 'crossing borders in road safety - creating a trans-european road safety culture'. i am therefore very grateful to the commission for presenting the mid-term review of this european road safety action programme, which was discussed at the informal meeting of transport ministers in bregenz on 2 and 3 march, and most recently at the council of transport ministers in brussels on 27 march. i should like to mention at this point that the austrian presidency of the council also intends to adopt conclusions on road safety at the formal council of ministers meeting in luxembourg on 8 and 9 june 2006. the 2003 european road safety action programme halving the number of road deaths in the european union by 2010 sets eu-wide road safety targets for the period 2003 to 2010. it contains 60 measures to be implemented at eu level, most of them of a non-legislative nature. this was a consistent continuation of the priority given to road safety in the 2001 white paper on transport. the long-term goal behind all efforts in the field of road safety is to ensure that no eu citizen is killed or seriously injured in road accidents in the future. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. the mid-term review of the eu road safety action programme, also presented by vice-president barrot at the above-mentioned meetings, clearly shows that europe is on the right track, but is still moving too slowly. i can only mention two or three striking figures. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. the aim is to have a number of road deaths of around 25 000 in 2010. we could do that if we were better off. if we were to continue with the current result, we would come to 32,500. this means that we must intensify all our efforts to get as close as possible to this ambitious goal. the three essential pillars of a successful transport policy are people, vehicles and infrastructure. the commission has also been able to discuss all three pillars in detail at the meetings mentioned. the worrying thing - and i must emphasize this - is the development of the killed motorcyclists and mopeds. it is the only group of road users in which the number of road deaths is not decreasing but increasing. if this trend is not stopped, in 2010 there will be only half as many road deaths in europe, but one in three of those killed will be a motorcyclist, compared to one in six today. on the infrastructure front, europe must be aware of its responsibility to provide infrastructure operators with the appropriate tools. this is the only way to minimise the risk to road users on our european road networks. in the context of the vehicle, it should be stressed that modern e-safety technology can make a significant contribution to improving road safety. the e-safety technology is intended to provide an intelligent link between man and machine and to enable the driver to abandon routine activities. a major focus of the informal council in bregenz, austria, was on the issue of awareness-raising. in bregenz we had the opportunity to study and compare the awareness-raising activities of our european colleagues in a very compact and concentrated way. as the evaluation of individual campaign activities has shown, targeted awareness-raising can actually do a lot. we in austria have also done a great deal in this respect in recent years: to shake up, to think or to encourage thinking and finally, and this is the most important thing, to bring about a change in behaviour towards greater road safety, fewer road deaths, fewer injured and seriously injured people in road accidents. we also agreed on synergies and increased efficiency that could be achieved by a thematically joint european awareness-raising campaign. we have identified, after a survey, that the topics 'alcohol at the wheel' and 'fatigue at the wheel' should be addressed as a matter of urgency. the commission has gratefully promised to provide support, in particular in organisational terms, in accordance with the rules in force, and has indicated that the high level group on road safety will be asked to develop a proposal in this respect. the commission's intention to establish a 'european day of road safety' is also in the interests of our common objectives in the field of road safety. such an initiative will certainly also help to raise awareness throughout europe. i would like to thank mr barrot in particular for his special commitment. since 2001, significant efforts have been made to make europe's roads safer. a number of legislative measures have been adopted in the technical and regulatory fields, such as provisions on seat belts, digital tachograph, driving and rest periods, driving licences and provisions for professional drivers. the commission has also launched a number of initiatives, such as the cars 21 initiative and the european road safety charter, which are raising awareness among european municipalities, countries, companies, associations, etc. the activities and initiatives of vice-president barrot, which include already announced proposals on daylight, blind mirrors and infrastructure, will also contribute to making our roads safer at european level. in conclusion, if in some member states with a high volume of transit traffic the problem is even greater than in the average european country, then we should start where the sink rates are low, where we sometimes even have to record increasing death rates. because every traffic fatality on europe's roads is one too many. i thank parliament for the opportunity to speak today on this important issue of road safety and i would like to say that we must not relent in our efforts to make europe's roads as safe as possible and thus prevent much suffering and misery.
the commission's vice-president mr president, mr vice-chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the agenda is on two subjects: road safety and safety in transport. i would like to echo mr gorbach's excellent speech and thank him at the outset for his personal commitment to the great cause of road safety. i thank you, mr vice-chancellor, for placing this major problem of road safety at the heart of the austrian presidency's priorities. as i have been led to do in reporting on our assessment, after five years, starting from the programme which the european union set itself in 2000, we must note that the countries which now form the european union had 50 000 road deaths in 2001. and the common goal proposed in 2001 and updated today is to not exceed 25,000 killed in 2010. save 25,000 lives from the future. where are we? in 2005, we had another 41,600 deaths. this corresponds to a reduction of 17.5% in four years. considerable progress has been made, particularly in some states, but it is not enough. as you said, mr gorbach, the number of people killed in the union could rise to 32 500 in 2010 if we do not give this road safety policy a new impetus. increased efforts are needed and disparities between member states need to be corrected. the austrian presidency has enabled us, and i would like to thank it again, to make progress with an agreement on the european driving licence. this driving licence, i remind you, is accompanied by a licence for motorcycles and a progressive licence for the most powerful motorcycles. this should help us to reduce the number of deaths on two wheels which is becoming alarming. beyond this assessment and beyond the progress made during this presidency, the commission will present in 2006 new initiatives which will find their place in the action plan which i will propose in the revised white paper. firstly, a proposal for a directive on the management of road safety in the transeuropean network. it is not for us to explain how to make a road safer, but it is for the european union to verify in each of the member states that safety is given the highest attention when a new road is built or an existing road is improved. secondly, a proposal for a directive which will allow crossborder prosecution in the most serious cases of traffic offences: speeding, drunk driving and failure to wear a seatbelt. it is not normal that a serious offender can escape punishment simply by crossing the border. finally, as you said, mr minister, we are going to fill a gap in the existing legislation with regard to the dead-angle mirrors of heavy goods vehicles. we are also trying to promote the idea of a third "day" fire. some member states already want to be able to ask for this additional equipment for cars. we shall now see, together with my colleague gunther verheugen, how to deal with this issue and what action to take on the recommendations of the cars 21 group, which has listed a whole series of safety equipment which could bring a great deal of benefit to vehicles travelling in europe. to conclude on this first point, mr president, i would like to confirm that our assessment of progress in road safety will become annual. mr gorbach also mentioned the idea of a european road safety day and the launch of awareness campaigns, all of which should be conducted at european level. i can confirm to parliament that we are working with the presidency on all this. now, if you will allow me, i will address the question of the safety of transport modes, including the difficult question of their financing. i know that this is a matter of concern to the european parliament, the council and the commission. following the events of 11 september 2001, the commission proposed a framework regulation to establish common rules in the field of civil aviation security. the support of parliament, as well as that of the council, had been essential to the success of this legislative process. this regulation was accompanied by an interinstitutional declaration in which our three institutions reaffirmed their determination to improve the quality of aviation safety systems in the community. it also appeared necessary to avoid any distortion of internal and external competition. finally, the three institutions took note of the commission's intention to commission a study on the distribution of security funding between public authorities and operators. the commission undertook to submit to the european parliament and the council the results of this study and the proposals which would result from it. a similar position was adopted in 2004 with the adoption of the regulation on the improvement of the safety of ships and port facilities. it was recognised that the effective and uniform application of security measures raised important issues, always related to funding. in this connection, the commission was also to undertake a study with a view to providing information to the european parliament and to consider possible proposals to be made. the commission has since 2004 put in place an inspection system which has contributed significantly to the enhancement of aviation safety. to date, the commission has carried out 69 inspections in all member states. in the light of these inspections, the commission proposed at the end of 2005 the revision of regulation 2320/2002, which is currently being examined by the committee on transport and tourism, for which you, mr president costa, are the rapporteur. with this proposal for revision, the commission presented the first annual report on the implementation of the regulation currently in force, together with the main results of the inspections. i would also point out that the regulatory committee set up by the 2002 framework regulation has done a great deal of work and has led to the adoption of eight implementing regulations. the commission also launched the two required studies which confirmed the importance of the question of financing. as regards aviation, the study was completed in 2004. the results were published on the commission's website. the study on the financing of maritime security will be completed shortly. as soon as the results are available, they will be submitted to you. the study shows that civil aviation safety expenditure in the then 15 member states of the union was between eur 2.5 and 3.6 billion in 2002. this amount can be considered a significant figure, but it should be noted that for intra-community transport the combined airport and security charges and fees represented 1% to 2% of the average air ticket prices. the study also highlighted a certain diversity of funding methods. there are great differences in the role of the state. it also pointed out a certain lack of transparency as regards taxes and security charges. i should like to inform parliament that i have decided to hold a meeting of all air traffic operators tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. the main subject of this consultation will be airport charges, but it will certainly include these safety problems and their cost. as regards maritime security, the preliminary results of the study also confirm that the costs are significant, even if the expenditure in the maritime field is rather limited in relation to the total costs. the european union has more than 1200 seaports and some 3700 port facilities, for which the average investment in security is over 400 000 euro, according to this study, with running costs of over 200 000 euro per year. as far as ship safety is concerned, the average investment is €100,000, with running costs of around €25,000 per year. these are the facts of this complex problem, the importance of which i recognize, but for which i must also admit that it is difficult today to say that a solution can be found which will be mandatory for all. that is why we must think together about these security problems and their financing, and i look forward to hearing your input on this. this is a problem which will obviously have to be dealt with very rigorously in the future. that is what i wanted to say, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i thank you and the austrian presidency for allowing us to have this exchange on both road safety and safety problems.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i share your question and we should discuss in the bureau how we can achieve a reasonable procedure while respecting all the constitutional rights of the institutions. it is not possible that in a debate scheduled for half an hour the council and the commission should speak for 25 minutes together. when are they supposed to debate us? if the two institutions wish to debate among themselves, they can certainly do so in the council. but i want to get back to the point. the issue is not road safety. mr vice-chancellor, i thank you for your remarks and i share them. the key is the simple question: how do we finance aviation security? the problem has been raised in the kosta report. we must discuss this question at last. i would remind you that in 2002 we agreed as a parliament that the member states should take responsibility for the security of air transport caused by terrorism. the fight against terrorism is a public matter, and so is the financing of terrorism. we then, because we could not agree, agreed in the 2002 legislative procedure on the basic regulation at least on an interinstitutional agreement, namely that the commission should present a proposal on public funding of such air safety measures. mr president, i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. after four years you should be able to say - at least you could be so kind as to say - when you will come up with a concrete proposal. there were rumors going around, in april. now it's the end of the year. well, after four years, it's not bearable. mr president-in-office, i would also like you to make it clear that if we agree that the additional measures after 2001 were counter-terrorism measures, do you also think that these are measures which the state must finance? - yes or no? we are of that opinion.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'll try very hard to keep this short. the austrian presidency of the council plans to discuss the question of the financing of security measures at the next council working group, which will meet tomorrow, 6 april, and, above all, to discuss the further procedures in this dossier, especially now that the commission has also announced that it will not present its study on this subject until the end of 2006. in any event, close contact between the council presidency, the commission and parliament is essential on this issue, particularly with a view to reaching a rapid agreement with parliament. i would also like to deal with all the financing issues from the point of view of the council presidency, but that would be out of the question today. i have tried to speak about road safety, which has been a priority in the council in recent weeks and months, in close contact with the commission, which has focused more on the financing of safety in aviation, for example. the difficulty of this question of financing is shown by the fact that there are also differences of opinion in the european parliament, as is clear from the costa report and also from your statement, mr jarzembowski. i know as well as you that we need clear rules for the sake of fair competition and transparency. i also believe that this is really about fighting terrorism, which must be a national responsibility, because if i take this on to the airlines, the responsibility lies with the passenger, and i do not think it should be there. the passenger has the right to be adequately protected against any form of threat. i therefore take the clear view that all this is a national task which we must also face.
the commission's vice-president mr president, mr vice-chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what one of you has said, i am well aware of the importance of road safety and safety problems. we are working on it and i have listened very carefully to your various speeches. i would remind you that in its communication on the impact of the 11 september attacks on the air transport industry, the commission has already stressed that the strengthening of certain security measures by the public authorities following attacks on society as a whole, and not just on the actors involved in transport, should be the responsibility of the public authorities. i think i agree with mr costa on this distinction, which is probably one of the guiding principles for future european institutions. i therefore said, mr president, that the studies on aviation safety had been carried out and that the studies on maritime safety would shortly be brought to the attention of parliament. what these studies show - and i have quoted figures - is that the costs of security measures can be high, even if they appear to be limited in comparison with the overall cost of transport. but still, in absolute terms, they are costs. and i have just told parliament that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, in this confrontation between european transport companies and airports, we will certainly be discussing this matter. it is true that there is a diversity of approaches from one member state to another with regard to funding, and it is also true that there is a lack of transparency and that we must try to assess and correct any distortions of competition. i have noted your impatience, mr georg jarzembowski, mr el khadhraoui and mrs lichtenberger. i would like to point out that, pending the final results of the study on maritime safety, the commission is preparing a report before the summer which will respond to the interinstitutional declaration on the regulation establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation safety and the regulation on the improvement of the safety of ships and port facilities. i can therefore confirm that we will have this report ready before the summer. i am of course going to take advantage of today's debate, even though it is too short to cover the whole subject. i thank parliament for its commitment to this important subject and i thank the presidency for allowing us to raise this difficult but very important issue.
the debate is closed.
the next item is question time (b6-0017/2006). we shall deal with the following questions to the council. question no 1 by mr boguslaw sonik (h-0213/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: violation of the right to freedom of conscience and religion in china the writer is deeply concerned about the persecution of christians in china. although the constitution of the people's republic of china guarantees the right to freedom of conscience and religion, christians are persecuted, imprisoned, and tortured by the communist authorities. research and reports by numerous human rights organizations indicate that since 2001 there has been widespread and massive persecution of christians. the following provinces are particularly affected: zhejiang, jiangsu and hebei. the significance and extent of this problem is most clearly illustrated by the fact that there are an estimated 70 million christians in china. the toleration of this action by the chinese authorities and the indifference to the injustice and suffering inflicted on people in the 21st century because of their religious beliefs is unacceptable. what steps does the council plan to take to protect the fundamental right to freedom of conscience and religion in china? is the problem of persecution of christians being addressed by eu and chinese representatives at ministerial level?
the president of the council. i would like to make it quite clear that we in the council do not have two standards. human rights violations are addressed when they occur. the question of the compatibility of guantánamo with the relevant provisions of international law and in particular humanitarian law has been raised with the united states. i also quoted the president-in-office of the council when she expressed the hope that guantanamo would soon be a thing of the past. we, the council of the european union, have also supported the efforts of the un special rapporteur on torture, mr novak, to combat arbitrary detention and inhuman treatment. we are very much in favour of this question being put to the representatives of the united states, including and starting with the president, and also to the foreign minister. it is not at all true that we are trying to wipe this subject off the table.
president-in-office of the council. firstly, we cannot and should not comment on the national judiciary system if there are legal remedies available nationally that take care of this question. you mentioned the supreme court. the supreme court and other courts in the united states have repeatedly dealt with the question of the legality of a number of things that have happened in connection with the camp. i believe that the legal system of the united states is quite well equipped to deal with this question. i say categorically that we hope that the camp in guantánamo will soon be a matter of the past.
president-in-office of the council. in the discussions that took place at the foreign ministers’ dinner on the occasion of the european council, nobody opposed anything. it was quite clear that this was everybody’s common position. therefore, there is no question of anybody opposing anything because what i have said is clearly the position of all member states.
as they concern the same subject, the following questions will be dealt with together: question no 6 by mr evans (h-0015/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: compensation for air passengers can the council, in the light of the judgment of the european court of justice on compensation for air passengers of 10 january 2006, indicate what it will do to ensure that consumers actually benefit from the protection provided for in this legislation and can exercise their rights? question no 7 by eoin ryan (h-0228/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: rights of air passengers can the council state whether it intends to propose new measures to strengthen the rights of passengers travelling with european airlines?
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, with regard to these questions, and in particular to the question put by mr evans, the council can confirm that it has taken note of the judgment of the court of justice of the european communities of 10 january 2006 in the case of international air transport association, european low fares airline association v department for transport. the council welcomes the court's conclusion that the examination of the questions referred by the national court for a preliminary ruling has not revealed anything that would preclude the validity of articles 5, 6 and 7 of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 of the european parliament and of the council establishing a common system of compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights, in order to repeal the regulation. it should also be recalled that regulation (ec) no 261/2004 of the european parliament and of the council confers certain rights on passengers in the event of denied boarding and in the event of cancellation or delay of flights. article 16 'infringements' of the regulation provides that each member state is to designate a body responsible for the enforcement of this regulation on its territory. where appropriate, that body shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the rights of passengers are respected. there is also provision for passengers to lodge a complaint with a designated body concerning an alleged infringement of this regulation and, finally, article 16 (3) requires that the penalties to be imposed by the member states for infringements of the regulation must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. it is therefore primarily for the member states and the national enforcement bodies to ensure that air passengers actually enjoy the rights conferred on them by the regulation, also on the basis of complaints lodged by them. (the president cut the speaker off) article 211 of the ec treaty also requires the commission to ensure that the provisions of the regulation are effectively applied. the council will monitor the application of the regulation closely. in particular, it will carefully examine the report on the application and results of this regulation, which the commission is required to submit by 1 january 2007 pursuant to article 17 of the regulation. in particular, in connection with mr ryan's question, the council recalls that in 2004, in the context of the codecision procedure, it adopted, together with the european parliament, the above-mentioned regulation on assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding. i would also like to mention that the council will shortly adopt, also under the codecision procedure, together with parliament, a regulation on the rights of disabled and reduced mobility air passengers. finally, it should be noted that the european commission has the right of initiative for proposing legislative acts on the strengthening of air passengers' rights and that no new proposals have been submitted. accordingly, the council does not intend to adopt any further legislative acts in this area in the near future.
the president of the council. i would like to point out once again that this is a matter for the member states. the council can only point out during council meetings that these provisions, which are clear and unambiguous, should be observed and that efforts should be made to ensure that they are complied with. we cannot do more, and i ask for your understanding, but we will do so because the legal situation is clear. in this case, it is simply the responsibility of the member state concerned and it should exercise its responsibility.
the president of the council. if such cases are to become more frequent, this would certainly be a way of resolving the matter in a way that would be satisfactory to the passengers and consumers. but i would point out, mr president, that this too is a matter for the member states. i can only promise you that i will have this discussed in the council and that i will draw attention to this possibility if such complaints become so widespread that action is needed.
the president of the council. i am very concerned about the respect of passenger rights and cooperation with parliament. that is why i answer your question with a resounding yes.
the president of the council. i can only repeat, madam member, what i said earlier in reply to this supplementary question, namely that i am of course prepared and - to use your wording - happy to make the good services available to draw the attention of the member states to the need and importance of taking these matters seriously. i will discuss this matter in council.
as they concern the same subject, the following questions will be dealt with together: question no 8 by mr rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0051/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: financing of the trans-european transport networksthe agreement reached at the european council in december 2005 on the financial perspective for 2007-13 reduced the eur 20 billion originally proposed by the commission for the financing of the trans-european transport networks to eur 7 billion. given the importance of the transeuropean networks for the lisbon strategy and the functioning of the internal market, does the council believe that the amount of eur 7 billion will be sufficient to implement the 30 priority projects planned for the near future? does the commission agree that this substantial reduction of two thirds of the initial appropriations will have a restrictive effect on the transport sector in the broad sense, especially since some of these projects are already experiencing implementation problems? how does he intend to tackle this issue in the current six months? does he intend to seek the solution of the problem by reviewing and/or postponing some of the priority programmes? question no 9 by mr bernd posselt (h-0209/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eurostar and brenner base tunnel how does the presidency assess the development prospects and timetable of the 'master line for europe' high-speed rail link from paris via strasbourg to budapest, including its main branch from munich via the brenner base tunnel to rome, in particular also as regards the german and austrian parts of the two lines? question no 10 by stanislaw jalowiecki (h-0237/06) subject: implementation of the ten-t projects the objectives of the lisbon strategy cannot be achieved without efficient transport networks in europe. the essen european council in 1994, commission decisions 1692/96/ec oj l 228, 9.9.1996, p. 1 and 884/2004/ec oj l 167, 30.4.2004, p. 1, and the report of the high level group chaired by karel van miert, have established community ten-t guidelines and identified 30 priority projects. the author expresses concern that the proposal of the commission, which is responsible for appointing the coordinators for 6 of the 30 projects of the transeuropean transport network, does not take into account a project of strategic importance for the socioeconomic development of central europe, the axis no 23: gdansk-warsaw-brno/bratislava-vienna. is the austrian presidency giving priority to the project of linking the baltic states to central europe? how far has the project progressed and how is it financed?
the president of the council. a total of eur 7.3 billion is earmarked for transport. you have rightly said that we must also implement innovative financing models and not just think about them in order to realise the priority transeuropean networks. i am thinking of the involvement of private financiers and investors. it's the only way. in addition, it will undoubtedly be necessary to set priorities and after a few years it will be possible to conclude that those projects which are most rapidly ready for construction are also likely to have the best prospects of implementation. it will therefore be the primary task of those responsible in the councils to ensure that the priority transeuropean networks recognised as important for employment and economic development are properly prepared with the necessary and associated authorisations.
a writer. president. - the next item is the report (doc. i had asked specifically about the time dimensions of the main line for europe from paris via strasbourg and munich to vienna and the detour through the brenner base tunnel to rome. i would like to ask you about the overall project, but especially about the connection from munich to vienna or rome.
i'm really sorry about that. i take note of what you have said, but the mere delay of other debates very often leads to the problem that question time is shortened. questions which have not been dealt with for reasons of time will be answered in writing (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 8.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the theme for world health day is 'working together for health'. but unfortunately, not much of that cooperation remains. cooperation is mainly a brain drain. we have heard dramatic and impressive figures today. but these are numbers that should also be a source of shame, because they make it clear that europe is facing a healthcare crisis that is not being solved at its root here in europe ; we are trying to solve this crisis of brain drain from these countries. in europe, this is primarily about combating the diseases of civilization, which are caused by diet and environment, while in developing countries we have the situation where people die of diseases that could be cured, such as those that occur during childbirth, where women get fistulas during childbirth, or where it is quite simple - we have just heard this again - that children are not vaccinated and the most necessary measures are not taken. at the same time, we know that demographic change is likely to exacerbate the problem. we are short of people who go into nursing because of the aging of society. i therefore believe that the european union must finally act to prevent this dramatic development. the financial resources have already been mentioned. i have the impression that - we have talked a lot about african countries today - that it is in development policy that money flows to other countries. we have heard today - the example of the green card was mentioned again - that the european commission has no strategy. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. the commission has also been silent on the patent disputes over aids medicines in africa. the european union should have spoken out loudly against pharmaceutical companies watching people die in agony because of patents. i hope your words are followed by action. what we need is a strategy, not a lyric, not a nice word because world health day is coming, but a real solution to the problem. i hope that we have made a start here tonight and that this has been a departure. because we all agreed on the objective: what we need is real action to tackle the problem.
the commission has already done so. 'working together for health' is a very good motto for a world health day, provided it is taken seriously by all those who make speeches, write press statements or send out messages on 7 april. i would like to endorse the words of my predecessor in this respect. this is especially true in dealing with healthcare workers, to whom world health day 2007 is dedicated. i believe that the european parliament should also deal with the fact that 'working together for health' and the improvement of working conditions for health workers in the european union are not being taken seriously enough. on the contrary, i am. i would therefore like to make only four comments. firstly, the debate on the working time directive and the health reforms have made and continue to make the working conditions of people working in the health sector worse. i would remind you of the ongoing dispute over the recognition of standby time as working time and the strike by hospital staff in germany, which has been going on for weeks, which has paralysed many hospitals in germany and has also severely affected the provision of health care. for millions of people, access to health care is restricted, complicated, and not improved or secured. a second observation: the budget adopted by the european council in december 2005 has been reduced compared to the period still in force in the area of health and consumer protection, despite the enlargement of the european union and the increasing health problems. a third observation: although the spring summit of heads of state or government on the lisbon strategy takes place only a few days before the annual world health day, the topics of the lisbon summit play only a minor role. it is about more competitiveness, more stress and strain on the individual, and this is known to be detrimental to the health of the majority of the population. i would like to make a fourth point. the european commission opened a public consultation on the creation of a european defence and arms market two days ago. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the health of workers. armor leads directly to the destruction of health. in this context, however, i would also like to point out the growing importance of military aspects in development policy, which in poor countries should be directed primarily at improving the health of the population. i believe that this is a good opportunity and a good basis for a debate aimed at improving the health of the people living in the european union and the eu's contribution to improving global health. in this context, i also strongly urge a study by the alternative world health report global health watch 2005, which calls in particular for the expansion, the qualitative improvement and the democratisation of the public health sector. the health workers are the lifeblood of the health service. the first thing to be considered is not costs, capital and dubious productivity, but the qualified and responsible involvement of health workers, whose personality, professional and social competence, opinions and suggestions should count. i therefore propose a public consultation of health workers on the following questions: what do you think is the most common cause of illness or the most harmful to health? what is the biggest obstacle to you using your knowledge to maximize public health? what policy framework do you think needs to change to make you work better and improve public health? what do you think the european union should do to improve its contribution to world health, to overcoming hiv/aids, disease and the health consequences of hunger, water scarcity and environmental degradation?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this year's theme is 'people for health, health professionals'. thirty-five million people work in the health sector worldwide, of whom about four million are in the federal republic of germany and well over 12 million in the european union. these figures show that the global south is far from adequately supplied. the opportunities for people to access health services are clearly separated between the first and third worlds. in the short term, it makes sense to double or multiply our emergency aid. but the increase in human resources - both in our own country and in the third world - is essential. let me just briefly touch on conditions in europe. the third world is a subject on which my predecessors have already spoken, and i fully support them. i would like to highlight four european themes: the ageing of our society brings new challenges, new diseases, new therapies and a growing need for care that we cannot already fully meet today. secondly, we must improve the skills and the quality of our health professions in order to meet the criteria of excellence which we claim for ourselves. we need to drastically increase training in all areas of health care to meet these demands. thirdly, we must strengthen our cooperation within the union. even though health policy is subsidiary, we are called upon to intervene positively. health policy must not be reduced to monetary aspects, even if this phrase will certainly ring in the ears of my colleagues in berlin. fourthly, we must maintain the health of people working in the health sector and limit their consumption by means of moderate working hours and workload. in this context, i call on the commission to adopt parliament's position on the question of the working time directive.
member of the commission. mr president, the rapporteur has produced an excellent report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. he has summarised very well all the recent developments of the assembly. it is indeed becoming an increasingly strong parliamentary pillar of acp-eu cooperation. the establishment of the standing committees and the joint drafting of reports by the acp and the eu members of the assembly have led to more frequent and more intense contacts between parliamentarians. the assembly has become a mature forum, where issues of concern to acp and eu parliamentarians are addressed in an open debate where broad consensus on many development issues is emerging and where votes by separate houses have become a rare exception. this framework has allowed the assembly to discuss and reach agreement on a broad variety of issues ranging from governance over finance to trade questions. the resolution calls on the assembly to organise meetings between eu and acp members of parliament at regional or sub-regional level to strengthen regional integration and foster cooperation between national parliaments. the commission is ready to make its contribution to the success of such arrangements. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the commission shares your view on the assembly’s role as a model for cooperation. my colleague mr michel has participated in all the assemblies held since he took office. commissioner michel also looks forward to attending the next assembly which will be held in vienna in june this year.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. the commission is not i should like to begin by thanking mr cornillet for his comprehensive report on our activities during the past year. as the first vice-president of this assembly on the european side, i have naturally taken part in many activities. i would also like to begin by thanking our two co-chairs - the european co-chair, mrs glenys kinnock, who is present, and, in my absence, mrs sharon hay-webster - for their great commitment during the past year. that was exemplary, and we look forward to continuing that work. the main objective of the parliamentary assembly is to strengthen the parliamentary dimension of the cotonou agreement. through our many joint activities, we want to help our colleagues gain weight in their countries and also develop the self-confidence we have developed over the years towards our governments and the executive. we have also drawn common conclusions from these joint experiences and trips to different areas, for example in the field of the reform of the sugar market. it is good that the commissioner for agriculture is here today, because she knows the figures very well and knows what we are doing in europe to reform the sugar market and how little is available in those countries in comparison. this shows - i have been to guyana and jamaica myself - the direct consequences of our reform in these countries. we can inadvertently contribute to the destabilization of an entire country in guyana if we do not cushion our reforms in such a way that adequate compensation is provided there. i would like to draw attention to another important area. we call on the commission to allocate an appropriate share of the european development fund to the political training of parliamentarians and other leaders, so that a political culture can develop in the countries in the form of a lasting strengthening of good governance. in conclusion, i should like to say that we established an official contact with the pan-african parliament at the end of last year. i was able to speak to sharon hay-webster on behalf of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. i have now also become the chairman of this ad hoc delegation. it is important that we create awareness in africa that the continent is a community of destiny and that this is the way in which parliament can play an important role in africa.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to add my voice to the praise that the previous speakers have paid to margrietus van den berg for his excellent report. it highlights the many ways in which the framework contributes to reducing the effectiveness of our aid while allowing corrupt structures to thrive. of course, the criminal energy is usually that of those who sit at the meat-pots themselves in these countries. but very quickly you realize that the money that's been diverted has to go somewhere. we are very quickly involved in europe. it is often our banks that hold these dictators' money in their accounts, and it is often european companies that collude with structures in these countries, ultimately to the detriment of the people there. so let us make sure that we check exactly where budgetary aid is going! i have my doubts whether we as the eu can really give budgetary aid to 28 countries, whether the structures in these 28 countries are such that we can do this with confidence. let us use the legal possibilities to investigate the banks where dirty money is kept and return it to the countries concerned for the public good. let us change the legislation so that our companies can no longer deduct bribes as business expenses from taxation, and let us publicly identify those in europe who do so! name and shame also helps to drain the swamp of corruption. let us also use article 96 of the cotonou agreement to enforce measures against notoriously corrupt regimes. i would like to stress what ana gomes said earlier. i hope that all these people, including their spouses, will never again be granted visas to go shopping in europe, where they spend the money they stole from their people.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr van den berg, i too would like to congratulate you on your report, which tackles one of the most hotly debated issues in development cooperation. the african union estimates that african economies lose about $150 billion a year to corruption, or a quarter of their gross domestic product. i would like to start with the very same aspect that mr gahler has already mentioned, namely that of calling for compulsion to act on our part where it hurts us most. one billion dollars in bribes are paid out every year. - who? who considers the payment of these funds to be investments, transferred to protected accounts in the legitimate expectation of even greater profits? as important as it is to call on and support our partners in the fight against corruption, our primary task should be to remove those who are able to raise these huge amounts of bribes in our countries in the first place and use them to exclude the african continent and other parts of the world. i refer here to article 15 of the un convention against corruption. the european union's member states must make bribery a criminal offence. in my country, germany, it was not so long ago that you could deduct the bribe money from the tax, and it is not punishable to this day. we in parliament should first of all remove this foul-smelling crap from our own doorstep. i join you and the entire development committee in expressing support for the 'publish what you pay' campaigns and even calling for mandatory regulations for multinational companies to disclose information about payments to governments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected. this cannot be allowed within the union. we should therefore call on the union and its member states to close the loopholes of bribery outside the union. if we have criminalized bribery in our own country, if we no longer finance our living standards with the proceeds of corruption, if we no longer praise our banks for their good credit and if we give our investigators the means to hunt down bribe-takers, then we can also stand up to our partners and demand the same contribution to the fight against corruption.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important matter. we are now awaiting the commission's opinion, commissioner kyprianou's opinion. then we can decide what to do.
member of the commission. mr president, i note the points raised by mrs doyle. on behalf of the commission, i would like to reassure the house that the commission undertakes to evaluate the pending infringement procedures with regard to the use of f-gases in denmark and austria, taking into account the spirit in which the final agreement was reached during conciliation. this vote can therefore take place today.
i see that the rapporteur agrees with the statements made by commissioner verheugen and commissioner kyprianou, so we can proceed to the vote.
we come to the elections in belarus in belarus. i would like to take this opportunity to welcome to the gallery the candidate who took part in these elections and who fought for democracy in belarus, mr milinkevich. welcome to the club. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.) you see, mr milinkevich, we want and wish for democracy in our neighbouring country, belarus, across all party lines. have a good time at home.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the votes are closed.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission is concerned about the events occurring in the south-east of turkey and about the outbursts of violence and terrorist attacks that have spread to other cities in the country. we are closely following the situation. according to the information available to the commission, an outburst of violence started on 28 march, in the south-eastern city of diyarbakir following the funeral of pkk members. may i remind honourable members that the pkk is included in the european union’s list of terrorist organisations. the first victims were reported on 29 march in diyarbakir and other fatalities were reported in the following days throughout the region. over the weekend, riots also spread to istanbul, where a molotov cocktail was thrown into a crowded city bus. three civilians were killed. since then other fatalities have been reported, including among the security forces. let me be clear, the european union unequivocally condemns terrorism. the pkk is a terrorist organisation. we are deeply concerned about its recent activities in turkey. we feel that we are victims of these terrorist acts. but at the same time, we deeply deplore human casualties and call on the turkish authorities to shed light on those events, through a comprehensive investigation, and to make sure that the security forces show the necessary strength in face of the demonstrators. the people in the south-east of turkey do not need violence and confrontation; they need peace, stability and prosperity. we urge the turkish government to address in a comprehensive manner – and not only from the security point of view – the problems of this region and of its people, who are for the most part of kurdish origin. the turkish government should take action with a view to enhancing and ensuring economic, social and cultural opportunities for all turkish citizens. in this respect, we look forward to the follow-up of prime minister erdogan’s speech in august 2005. the commission recalls and stresses that under the copenhagen political criteria, turkey must ensure cultural diversity and promote the cultural rights of all its citizens as set out in the revised accession partnership adopted by the council in january 2006. it is also important that turkey facilitates the return of internally displaced people to their original settlements, ensures fair compensation for those who have suffered loss and damage as a result of the security situation, and addresses the abolition of the village guard system. we will continue to monitor the situation in the south-east. we will raise these issues with the turkish authorities as part of our regular monitoring of the political criteria. i am looking forward to a very interesting debate.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i thank the commissioner for his speech. i would like to express, on behalf of my group, our great concern about the situation in turkey that we have seen in the media. over the past week at least 15 people have lost their lives in clashes between demonstrators and turkish security forces in the south-east and in terrorist attacks in istanbul. we strongly condemn the disproportionate use of force by police forces in diyarbakir and kiziltepe. but at the same time, we vehemently denounce the provocations by the pkk, whose leaders deliberately stir up violence and riots. after three municipal buses in istanbul were burnt without any casualties, two young sisters were killed on sunday evening when a bus was attacked. the majority of the kurds, who wish to build a decent life in the towns or to return to their villages, should not be hostage to cynical leadership associated with the military wing of the pkk which wants to escalate the conflict, as well as some people in the ‘deep state’ in turkey. in the light of the recent events we have the feeling that some of our colleagues in the european parliament were not telling the whole story in the e-mails that were circulated recently. they give the impression of a black and white situation in which no turk wants to grant more rights to the kurds and every kurd is an oppressed victim. that is why i believe it is important that we draw attention to the debate that is currently going on in civil society in turkey, amongst intellectuals of turkish and kurdish origin. let me point out what they have said: first, kurdish identity in turkey must finally be officially recognised by the turkish state; second, the policy for assimilating kurds has been a complete failure; third, the turkish state has to make sure that it gets back the trust of the kurds and every citizen of turkey; fourth, there cannot be any peaceful solution that insists that the pkk is the official negotiation partner of the state, because that will not happen. i finish by quoting a former mayor of diyarbakir, who has just pointed out: ‘if we are going to have real peace here, the pkk has to adjust itself to the new world situation. the turkish state is becoming more democratic. the pkk needs to do the same. it should give up the idea of armed struggle and open respectful dialogue with kurds who think differently. it also needs to renovate its leadership. this organisation was formed with a cold war mentality. it needs to evolve’.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not on behalf of the gue/ngl group, and in particular my colleague from the group of the european people's party, vittorio agnoletto, i would like to express my shock at the fighting in the south-east of turkey. for more than a week, we have been hearing and seeing shocking news from a country with which the eu began accession negotiations in october 2005. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the turkish government has initiated a reform process in the context of the eu accession negotiations, but this is insufficient to provide a lasting solution to turkey's social and political problems and conflicts. one thing should be clear to turkey and to all of us in this regard: the democratic deficits of turkey have been and are closely linked to the kurdish question. as long as turkey tries to solve this problem by military means, by repression of the civilian population and by suppression of freedom of expression and thought, there will be no peace in this country and hence no basis for a democratic state. the gulf that runs through society must not deepen until it becomes insurmountable. the turkish president erdoğan has described the murders of women and children as necessary interventions against the tools of terror. so far, 15 people have died, including three children, the youngest of whom was just three years old. of the 278 arrested in diyarbakır, 91 are under 18 years old. if the turkish security forces continue to shoot at civilians in diyarbakir, batman, mardin and many other kurdish towns and the number of people killed continues to rise, then this gulf will become wider and a peaceful solution will be further removed. the european commission and the council are now called upon to use all the means at their disposal to persuade turkey to put an end to the violence. it is necessary to discuss whether the accession negotiations will be suspended if the turkish government and army continue to flout democratic principles and violate human rights. i call for an ad hoc delegation to be sent to turkey to investigate the incidents. i call on all parties to the conflict to put an immediate end to the violence and i call on the turkish government to accept the legally elected representatives of the kurds as negotiating partners and to drop the new charges against them. it cannot and must not be tolerated any longer that 20 million kurds are denied their political and cultural rights and their participation in socio-political decision-making.
a writer. the commission is not we have already discussed the situation in darfur here on several occasions, but not for some time now, although unfortunately the situation there is deteriorating dramatically. in the few months since the beginning of the year alone, according to mr egeland, the un under-secretary-general for darfur, more than 200 000 people have been displaced from their homes and more than 96 villages have been burned to the ground - more than a year after an international initiative was launched to stop all this! this shows the incredible weakness of the international community in darfur, and the fact that the un deputy secretary-general was even prevented from entering the crisis area at all shows that the regime in khartoum is openly shaming, boycotting and ridiculing the international community. that is why it is high time we stopped protesting weakly. the united nations, nato, the united states, the european union and the african union must sit down together to finally pursue a concerted policy on darfur that goes beyond paper resolutions. that means we need a much more massive intervention there than we have so far. of course, the african union is called for first, but we cannot stand by when genocide is taking place there, as the united states has clearly stated, even without drawing the necessary consequences. it is nothing less than genocide. we are currently remembering in sad commemorations the beginning of the genocide in rwanda and burundi, when people also looked away. today, everyone says that we should have intervened. we are in a similar situation now: we look away, we do not act, we do not use our possibilities - which are weak enough - but we are content with verbal protests. this makes the scandal in darfur not only a scandal of the sudanese regime but also a scandal of the international and european institutions. i am therefore very pleased that we are finally taking up this subject again in the european parliament. we must simply be clear that normal, or even semi-normal relations with sudan will only be possible when it finally fulfils its commitments and the international institutions can take action there.
a writer. the commission is not the latest information indicates that at least 14 000 prisoners are being held in iraq without any specific charges being brought against them. amnesty international is very clear that the us and uk occupying powers are in direct violation of international law with these detentions and that the occupying powers have not learned the lessons of abu ghraib. it must be made clear that these prisons in iraq are part of the occupation policy. the occupation of iraq is the real political problem. we should make that very clear. unfortunately, a number of eu countries are directly involved in this occupation: the united kingdom, poland, etc. the eu itself is also involved in iraq, for example through the eurojust-lex programme. i think this program needs to be reviewed, because if the justice system is the way it is right now, with so many prisoners, then this program can't possibly be effective. we must therefore make it clear that we want an end to the occupation of iraq and the human rights violations in the prisons. this must be stated very, very clearly by the european parliament.
a writer. the commission is not first of all, i must say that i find it scandalous that mr pflüger has not said a word about the situation of christians in iraq, which is perhaps understandable when you consider that the money on which his party still lives today is the money of a state called the gdr, in which christians were also massively persecuted. mr ploegger, i agree with you on many points. i have been and am a strong critic of the intervention in iraq, and i also believe that we must take a very sober view of this. the main justification for this intervention was and is, for its proponents, that the human rights situation in iraq should be improved after the brutal regime of saddam hussein. there have indeed been a number of improvements, but unfortunately we must also note a number of critical developments. the first major critical development is that with the intervention in iraq, the very complicated ethnic balance in this artificial state, which was artificially created by the colonial powers after the first world war, has been thrown out of joint and that no one has a concept for a reasonable statehood in iraq. the most affected are the smaller peoples and in particular the small minorities, and these are the assyrians and other small peoples. i am impressed by the efforts of some in this house to speak up for the rights of christians. this minority is persecuted because of their christian faith. who else but our europe, which is 85% christian, can speak for them? we must show solidarity with all those who are persecuted, with all those whose human rights are violated. but there should also be something like a natural bond between the christian majority of europe and the ancient christian minorities in that area, which have a very difficult history behind them and which today suffer in a very special way from the unstable conditions. they are being persecuted because they are christians by extremist elements who - and lady nicholson of winterbourne has said it very well - are politically abusing islam to enslave and oppress unwelcome minorities. it is a politicised islamism that persecutes minorities here. we are rightly critical of the situation in prisons. we must be clear: we have overthrown a dictatorship there, we are building democracy and the rule of law on - i support this goal - and this is something the eu must massively support. but of course we must also be measured by the standards that we are. the conditions of detention and the justice system are the first step towards a functioning rule of law. the same applies, of course, to those prisons which are not run by the iraqis themselves but by others. in conclusion, it must be said that human rights are indivisible, and no one can effectively defend human rights who is blind in one eye.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the decision to discuss this - mr wurtz has said what was necessary - was taken because we wanted the debate. but we also said, with regard to mr abbas's forthcoming visit to brussels or strasbourg, that it was not sensible to take decisions in the form of a resolution today on this subject, which is subject to such political dynamics. that is why we will not be voting in favour of this motion. it is quite clear that the motion is admissible in this chamber and that the chamber is the highest authority in this house. i would like to stress the position of mr cohn-bendit on this point. i would also like to say to the house something that mr cohn-bendit did not say: the conference of presidents is made up of ordinary members of parliament. one of these members is daniel cohn-bendit. and mr cohn-bendit is happy to receive support from other group chairmen in the conference of presidents, who support him in his wishes there - even though there is a risk that there would be no majority if the matter were voted on in plenary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the greens/efa group is in the comfortable position of having two chairmen: monica frassoni and daniel cohn-bendit. i'm always happy to see them, but never together. we have agreed - as mr wurtz and mr schulz have said - that there must be a little bit of goodwill in this house, that we should discuss the matter but not write a resolution, given the state of affairs. everyone agreed with that. of course, it is the parliament's natural right to take the final decision, but what the conference of presidents decided in this case - not everything we do may be right, we are only human beings - was a reasonable decision, and i would be very pleased if parliament followed that decision.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by paying tribute to the lives lost and the communities hurt in the chernobyl devastation. we know from the latvian press that many people are still suffering the consequences, even now. latvia was not directly affected, but we have 6000 liquidators. today half of them are invalids and 500 are dead. my personal contact with chernobyl was very close. on the day of the accident i was kayaking in ukraine and i heard about it only two days later when one of the locals asked me whether i had heard about the accident at the nuclear power station nearby. my second contact with it was through my brother-in-law, an ordinary man who was called to liquidate the consequences of the chernobyl disaster. on the 20th anniversary of the chernobyl accident, the european commission joins the european parliament in a thorough reflection on the consequences of the accident and, in particular, on the lessons learned. firstly, since 1991, the european union has provided important financial assistance to improve nuclear safety in russia, ukraine, armenia and kazakhstan, including the consequences at the chernobyl site itself. to ukraine alone, the community has provided more than half a billion euros in assistance to projects relating to nuclear safety, including assistance to the chernobyl shelter fund. as a measure of continued eu commitment, the commission has also proposed an instrument for nuclear safety to reinforce it outside the european union borders for the period 2007-2013, with a proposed budget of eur 500 million. for the international community, the chernobyl accident represented a turning point, raising awareness of the need for rules and common standards to reduce the risk of an accident to a minimum, as well as preparation for immediate reaction in case of a radiological emergency. a number of international conventions signed under the auspices of the international atomic energy agency reflect the response of the international community in the wake of the accident: the convention on early notification of a nuclear accident; the convention on assistance in the case of a nuclear accident or radiological emergency; the convention on nuclear safety; the convention on the physical protection of nuclear material; and the joint convention on the safety of spent fuel management and on the safety of radioactive waste management. the european atomic energy community and the member states are contracting parties to all these conventions. at european level, i would recall that the chapter in the euratom treaty on health and safety provides both for the protection of the health of workers and of the general public against the dangers arising from radiation. the treaty also obliges member states and operators to supply the commission with regular information on installations and nuclear material in their possession. in addition, secondary legislation reflects the lessons learnt from the chernobyl tragedy. this includes foodstuffs legislation: soon after the accident, restrictions on certain agricultural imports were adopted and some border controls still apply today. if ever needed, a community mechanism will allow prompt fixing of the maximum permitted levels of contamination of foodstuffs and feedingstuffs. secondly, there is secondary legislation on emergency planning: there is an obligation that the necessary emergency plans must be drawn up at a national and local level, including inside the facilities, and emergency teams must be in place. member states must cooperate in emergency planning and in responding to an emergency. thirdly, there is secondary legislation on information in cases of radiological emergency: a community system is in place for the early exchange of information in the event of a radiological emergency. all member states, switzerland, bulgaria, romania and turkey participate in that mechanism. furthermore, all member states have established on their territory a network of facilities for monitoring the levels of radioactivity in the environment. it was such equipment in the nordic countries that detected the chernobyl accident well before it was revealed by the authorities of the soviet union. informing the population covers advance information to people living close to nuclear installations, as well as protection mechanisms to be provided to the population actually affected by such an emergency. the european union has provided financial support for the upgrading of the operating conditions of a number of nuclear installations within the european union. the reactors where sufficient upgrading could not be carried out will be or have been closed down. the staged closure of the remaining reactors in ignalina, bohunice and kozloduy was agreed in the negotiations for accession to the european union. they will be closed and we will provide financial support for the countries concerned. since 1986, the european union has made significant progress particularly in the fields of safety, radiation protection and emergency preparedness. the commission would like to thank parliament yet again for its support of the eu role in nuclear safeguards, as expressed in the resolution of 15 march 2006 on the lisbon strategy. this resolution recalls that the eu possesses globally acknowledged expertise in the area of nuclear energy and notes that this expertise relates, inter alia, to the efficiency and quality of production installations and to decommissioning processes. it is also worth recalling that the council in june 2004 set up a working party on nuclear safety, which is due to produce a final report at the end of this year. parliament is also aware that the commission has made specific legislative proposals intended to provide the union with common rules on nuclear safety, safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, and decommissioning funds. furthermore, the commission will make every effort in the area of research and development to help to find a sustainable solution to the issue of the radioactive waste. once again, i wish to thank parliament for its support and i thank you very much for your attention.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the accident which took place exactly twenty years ago today in the west of what was then the soviet union was the first european environmental tragedy of continental scale. it is our responsibility today to ensure that it remains the only one. on this day, our deepest sympathy goes to the victims of this tragedy and their families, to the workers at the power plant and the rescue workers who sacrificed their lives to save the population from worse, to the residents in the immediate vicinity and to the people who subsequently suffered directly or indirectly from the nuclear fallout, including many children who suffered particularly badly from the consequences. an area of some 40 000 square kilometres, which is about the size of belgium, is so heavily contaminated with radioactivity that it will be uninhabitable and unsuitable for agriculture for decades. i have just been reminded that the explosion at this nuclear power station was not for civilian use but for military experiments. the name chernobyl should be a warning to us today when we discuss the way dictatorships deal with nuclear energy. we must regret that the soviet authorities at the time were, to a large extent, inhuman to the people in the towns and villages around the reactor. over the past 20 years, much has been done around the world to help those affected and to help people cope with the consequences. we should like to thank all the many associations and institutions which have made a contribution to this field. in view of the suffering of the victims, but also in view of the commitment shown by many people in the european union, the anniversary of the chernobyl accident should not be used for political gain and should not be used as an occasion for a debate against nuclear energy. the main objective is to improve and guarantee nuclear safety. the chernobyl power plant has been shut down since december 2000. the european parliament and the european union have welcomed this decision as a major contribution to improving nuclear safety in europe, and we have always worked very well with the commission, commissioner piebalgs. the european union has also made a substantial contribution to the safeguarding of the chernobyl accident site. in december 1997, a fund was set up to cover the chernobyl reactor and protect the population and the environment from further radioactive contamination. the fall of the iron curtain and, in particular, the enlargement of the european union to the east two years ago, have contributed to a safer use of nuclear energy in europe. while in 2001 there were nine nuclear power stations with a total of 27 units of the chernobyl design still connected to the grid, the new member states have committed themselves in the accession treaties to shutting down these power stations in the coming years. it is very important that now, with the help of the 2007-2013 financial perspective compromise, the funds for the decommissioning of these power stations are made available quickly. we cannot leave the candidate countries, which are facing these problems as a result of the chernobyl disaster, to themselves. we must act in solidarity with these countries, and in doing so we must also do something for ourselves. the european union has developed over the years a high standard of safety for nuclear power stations, which our neighbouring countries must now also meet. at the same time, we must continue to promote research into reactor safety. the research framework programme currently being discussed by parliament can make an important contribution to this. we want to continue this policy and we very much hope that we can work together to ensure a safe and secure energy supply in line with sustainable development and a healthy environment. we must therefore, in all our absolutely legitimate security requirements, also consider the peaceful use of nuclear energy in the context of europe's security of supply, and we must all work together to achieve this.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it is very difficult to commemorate the victims of this accident on such an anniversary for various reasons. the suffering of these people is immeasurable. i myself, as mayor of a german city, had the opportunity to look after children of families who had been victims of the chernobyl accident, and this is one of the most bitter experiences i have had in my political life. the cynicism of those responsible is indescribable. and i share the view of my colleague poettering that if we remember this day 20 years ago, we must also remember that it was the result of an accident in a dictatorship. by withholding facts, by covering up and concealing responsibility, time was allowed to pass that would have been necessary to act immediately and reduce human suffering. so if we think of the victims on this day, we must also think of those responsible and realize that they bear a great responsibility, a historic responsibility. i do not share the view of my colleague that this commemoration should not be used to decide in principle on the question of the use of nuclear energy. (applause from the centre) in my group there are different opinions, as in all the groups in this house - perhaps not in the green group, sorry. i have colleagues who have a different view from mine, but each of us must answer the question that chernobyl posed in an exemplary way, in a way that is visible to every individual: is everything that is technically possible also morally responsible? the answer is no. i believe there are three main reasons for scepticism about nuclear power: first, one can argue that there are very few accidents in nuclear power plants. yes, but if they do exist, they are of such dramatic impact that in weighing the small risk that may exist and the catastrophe that it may cause, one must choose the small risk over the small risk. that's clear to me. (applause from the centre) there's a second reason: we've seen, again, in recent weeks, in the case of india, and we're discussing in the context of iran, that the misuse of civilian use by military use is not something new, but something that's been going on for decades. the iaea has never had access to military use, but it has never been able to prevent the ban on proliferation from being circumvented, civilian facilities from being created and civilian facilities from being turned into military use. this risk is too great. (applause from the centre) thirdly, because the transition is so smooth, something else has emerged as an example of the faulty behaviour of the united states of america. the alleged argument that 'we do not negotiate with dictators who want to acquire weapons of mass destruction, like saddam hussein' has been used to start a war in iraq. at the same time, negotiations were held with a dictator who had nuclear weapons - namely, north korea. the message was: "if you have nuclear weapons, if you are not attacked, if you do not have nuclear weapons, you will be attacked militarily". it was an invitation to every dictator in the world to get their hands on nuclear weapons illegally as soon as possible. this too must be discussed in the context of chernobyl. (applause from the centre) i have fought against nuclear energy in my country since my earliest youth. i have not become a green because of this; i would say that this is a fortunate circumstance for the greens. but there are many in my political family who share my views. there are others who do not share it. i would like to make it quite clear to these colleagues here too: i have to respect and support their arguments. there are colleagues in my group who share your view, mr poettering, that it is possible to take that risk. i have to respect that, too. but i would like to add one thing: unfortunately, we are not all able to overcome a certain cynicism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a new nuclear reactor is being built in finland. there are countries in the world that are just now entering civil use. and because the risks are so great, even those who are against nuclear energy on principle must have an interest in us investing as much money as possible in the highest possible safety standards for nuclear energy. this is also a kind of cynicism that we have to endure 20 years after chernobyl. (applause from the left)
a writer. the commission has already done so. the european parliament examined the treaties of accession of romania and bulgaria in april last year and decided to give its consent to the signing of these treaties. that is to say, according to the wishes of this house, romania and bulgaria are to become members of the european union, and the date provided for in the treaty is 1 january 2007. this is the way it is and will remain the way it is and cannot be questioned. the date, not the membership itself, is a matter of some doubt. these treaties expressly provide that by may this year - the commission decided to do so on 16 may - there will be a review of the way in which the two countries have met the requirements of the legal order of the european union and the content of the accession treaties, not only in terms of legislative decisions but also in terms of their implementation, their practical application. i am well aware, of course, that this cannot be a 100 per cent hurdle, because 100 per cent is just paradise, and it will not be produced directly in these two countries either. the question therefore arises whether the critical mass has been reached, and we are waiting for answers. i hope, commissioner, that in your speech which is coming we will be able to get a little closer to the issues. the question is: has the time been sufficient to achieve the necessary implementation by 31 december this year, or do these two countries need another year? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. or is it conceivable that individual chapters - and this is possible even three years after the accession of the two countries - could be abrogated because the treaty and the legal order of the european union have not been sufficiently implemented in these individual areas? can there also be a monitoring process for that period to determine whether it is so or not? these are the questions. we must see from your report, which you presented to the european parliament on 3 april, that there are issues relating to corruption and internal security, organised crime and similar matters, including some issues of the security of trade within the internal market. is there sufficient legislation in these areas? we see that in bulgaria, for example, legislative decisions on the judicial system are being taken only this week. can this be credibly implemented by 16 may? these are questions which we must look at soberly if this process is to work in the interests of both countries and in the interests of the european union. commissioner, i hope you will help us with that. in any event, we believe that it is in the interests of both the european union and the candidate countries, which will in any case become members of the european union, that the treaties are respected and that the implementation has been carried out in a reasonable manner beforehand. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i listened very carefully to the commissioner's answers to the questions. the answers were extremely informative, commissioner, i must say. you can sum it up in one sentence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i'll take care of it. we'll see what you have to say in may. but i will tell you what the socialist group wants today: we want romania and bulgaria to become full members of the european union on 1 january 2007. that is our explicit aim. the governments of both countries represent different political camps. in one country our friends are in power, in another country parties with different political orientations are in power. we are firmly convinced that both governments, regardless of their political background, are making enormous efforts to meet the requirements. i therefore say today on behalf of our group that if you do not see any major obstacles that you would put before us in may, if there is no change in the current approach, then we believe that this objective can be achieved and that the question 'do these countries meet the criteria by 31 december 2006?' which was the subject of our oral question can be answered with a clear 'yes'. if that is not the case, we shall certainly have to discuss it again. but we're assuming that at this point. and that is also the message of all the members of our group, which my colleague, poul nyrup rasmussen, will be presenting to the whole social democratic party family here: we want the membership of these two countries. we want this membership because it is the culmination of a long process. we want them because they are welcome in the european union. we also want them because we see that this process of transformation requires enormous efforts in these countries, but also successfully leads to greater security, stability and democracy. there are no discounts, we all know that, but we are confident that this process can be brought to a positive conclusion, and i would like to say once again for the socialist group: if the criteria are met, then we welcome these countries into the eu. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am glad that we will be able to welcome bulgaria and romania here in the european parliament, in the european union, as soon as possible, because this will achieve something that we have all been working for for many years, namely the reunification of the european continent. i would be much happier if it were clear by now that all the conditions for accession have been met and that the best possible conditions have been created for these two countries to become members of the european union. i can therefore only ask commissioner rehn to do for the report what the commission's task is as guardian of the treaties. as the guardian of the treaties, the commission has to see to it that all the things that have been agreed have been achieved and that the time now available until the end of the year is sufficient to deal with what has not yet been achieved. that is the commission's task and it must draw the appropriate conclusions from it in accordance with the treaty of accession. i myself had the opportunity in recent days to travel to romania with a delegation of the cdu/csu. i would like to emphasize that what we have seen and experienced in bucharest, as well as in other parts of the country, is very impressive. i can only ask all those who are politically responsible - in romania as well as in bulgaria, where there is some need to catch up with the pace of reforms in recent times - to keep up with this pace of reform and not to put their hands in the lap after 16 may and say, 'everything is done now'. we will only be able to achieve this together if we continue this process with commitment. in conclusion, let me say very clearly that these reforms in bulgaria and romania are not needed to pass the beauty contest before commissioner rehn or the european union, but these reforms are necessary for people to live in countries where there is legal certainty and stable democratic institutions serving the interests of the people on the ground. if that is clear, we are on the right track.
the commission has already done so. mr schulz, in the 'other country', where you have not yet been able to identify the political orientation of the government, the liberals are in power. it is difficult for a german social democrat to imagine this, but there are liberal prime ministers in europe, several in fact. ladies and gentlemen, we liberals want bulgaria and romania to join the european union; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. bulgaria and romania will join the european union on 1 january 2007, when all national parliaments ratify the accession treaty, as it currently stands. of course, not everything is perfect yet, much remains to be done. the german judges who were present at the trial report on the attitude of the bulgarian judiciary to the reforms, which contradicts what government representatives say. i therefore personally think it is right that the commission should seriously consider whether monitoring is necessary in the sensitive areas of justice, the economy and the internal market and report back either in may or otherwise in the autumn. when our colleagues in the national parliaments vote on the accession of the two candidate countries, many of them will be able to rely on the latest commission report. we voted against it at a time when it seemed that bulgaria was ahead of romania in the pace of reform. the development since then proves - and this is not surprising - that we are not prophets. so we shouldn't pretend to be either. we must ensure that in future we too vote on future enlargements in good time and not a year and a half before. i want to make this clear: this is not the fault of the candidates for accession, this is our own fault. secondly, the commission cannot recommend postponing accession, the financial times reports today. the paper's right. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the council then had two countries sitting at the table, the majority of which had previously voted against their participation. no, it cannot, and it shows that the postponement clause of the treaty, article 39, is ultimately toothless. the accession of bulgaria and romania is out of the question. both countries have done a great deal. but we too have much to do to improve our enlargement policy. i am very pleased that we are not holding this debate in strasbourg but in brussels.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this is one of the most difficult situations we've ever been in. because what you're doing is wrong. it is impossible for taxpayers' money to be used directly for an authority, a kind of government, that does not abjure violence, that is not for a state to be recognized in its existence. that's why it's impossible to pay money here. on the other hand, we also know that others are stepping into that place and gaining influence. that's another result that's not very good. the only way to make this a proper policy is to welcome the fact that payments to the authority have been suspended, but also to find ways of helping the people directly. but this aid needs to have a high level of visibility, so that we are seen there as those who support social, humanitarian processes. in this way, the people will see that it is worthwhile to be for peace. because the majority of palestinians, as well as the majority of israelis, are for peace. they are tired of violence and want to live together in peace in two states that are viable and whose existence in the region is guaranteed. in this context, we must continue to examine how another legitimate authority in the palestinian area, namely president abbas, can be helpful and has the means to move. the european parliament is the only institution in the world which is directly elected by the people, and it has its own democratic legitimacy. he has renounced violence, he has recognized the right of the state of israel to exist. the commission must examine to what extent this can still be translated into action and support. these two options exist as an alternative to paying the money to the palestinian authority under the hamas government, which has made appalling statements after the suicide bombing, while prime minister olmert has been moderate. i hope that this site will continue to make sensible comments to help the process move forward. i would also like to thank the presidency for its visible efforts to steer the process in this direction.
i have to say, madam president, the planned eu-latin america summit in vienna, which is the occasion for this report, is the largest intergovernmental summit during the austrian presidency of the council. that 's good . so latin america is finally back on the agenda. there will also be an alternative summit of latin american and eu grassroots initiatives in vienna. our group expressly supports this alternative summit. these basic initiatives are fighting in particular against a relationship between latin america and the eu countries based on the ideas of unbridled neoliberal free trade. unfortunately, many of the ideas of this unbridled neoliberal free trade are also contained in the salafranca report. it also states that latin america should be included in the so-called eu security concepts. there are a number of positive developments in latin america which we should support. after this debate, it is relatively clear to me that human rights are comprehensive, i.e. individual, social human rights and human rights to independent development - all these human rights belong together. we should have this comprehensive approach to human rights, and ideological speeches such as those made by mr tannock are not going to help us here. we must give the people of latin america practical, political and other support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the request for an oral reply to the council on the amendment of the protocol on privileges and immunities, tabled by giuseppe gargani on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-0002/2006 b6-0004/2006).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i should like to express a little bit of my surprise that there has been enough time for many important things, such as the one-minute speeches, while the question of whether the european taxpayers' money is being spent properly is now being discussed around the evening break. secondly, i would have been happy to have been able to report today, as the rapporteur for the commission's budget did, that the parliament's administration had done everything properly, that we had only a few problems because it did not fill many of the posts created at the time in connection with enlargement, because we had the highest rate of non-implementation, that is, of carryover, in the history of the parliament's budget, and a few other things. but in the last few days, a story has come to light that, of course, because of its particularity, deserves to be mentioned here. i do think it is wise that we do not give a discharge for the parliament's budget at this stage. i would also like to make it very clear that i regret that the services of this house have not allowed a procedure which would have made it possible to explain why we are not granting discharge. i think it is unacceptable what was said this afternoon in the committee on budgetary control by the legal service of this house against the interests - by the way, mr vice-president, also of the bureau - and against the interests of the members. this is an unacceptable procedure and one which alone deserves special consideration. the second point is equally unacceptable. it will be necessary to examine whether, by providing a plot of land on which a dutch pension fund has built a building, the city of strasbourg is in a lease with us for an amount which is significantly different from the amount it then transfers to the pension fund, not at the expense of the city of strasbourg but for the benefit of the city of strasbourg. i am also very clear here: it is not a question of the seat in strasbourg - which is regulated in the treaties - but whether the purpose and purpose of such a chain of contracts is that we should be paying a direct subsidy - and something else - to the municipal budget of the city of strasbourg over the rent we pay to the city of strasbourg. but since this contractual relationship has not been in existence since yesterday, and if the information i have so far is correct, has been in existence since 1980, it will also be necessary to clarify who in this house has also known about these things in the past and who has not contributed to the interests of the european taxpayers in this context, which would have been protected if we had concluded the lease directly with this pension fund. i guess we could have gotten the building for less. so if someone in this house knew this and did not act in the interests of the european taxpayer, then that is also worth a special check. now, these are exactly the things that we're gonna do to each other. i can therefore only ask - and the rules of procedure provide for other possibilities - that the administration make all the information available to it. i can only ask the city of strasbourg to provide all the information and to cooperate very closely with parliament. if it does not do so, and if everything is discussed under the guise of the european parliament seeking a quick opportunity to leave strasbourg for good, then the city of strasbourg will itself contribute to the occurrence of what it does not want. i have read the press release from the city of strasbourg this afternoon, and with my rudimentary french i have understood it to this extent. this is not yet the form of cooperation i envisage. the city of strasbourg benefits from the european parliament without having to rely on such payments. that is why i am asking you to work closely with us to clarify matters. it is the only way to act in the interests of the taxpayers. and we'll draw the right conclusions from it. i therefore regret that, despite my thanks to all those who have worked in advance, to the services, to the committee secretariat, to the members, i have to recommend that you vote against the report tomorrow and not grant discharge so that we can seriously clarify all the things i have mentioned. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the continuation of the joint debate on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. as rapporteur for the committee on transport and tourism, i would like to stress that the european court of auditors has already developed a tradition of criticism of the transeuropean networks. in his latest report on transparency, he states: the commission introduced complex annual management procedures for the evaluation and selection of ten-t projects, which meant that information relevant for evaluation was not always available. the court also suggests that the commission should also 'develop a clear method for assessing proposals submitted under the ten-t programme and publish it in its handbook'. it's too late. the court also criticised coordination, stating that: 'the coordination of the different sources of community funding for transport infrastructure projects by the different directorates-general does not allow the commission to detect all cases of over- or double-financing.' the budgetary constraints are such that this cannot be tolerated. the court of auditors has even made specific proposals to put an end to this: the commission should establish appropriate legal bases, procedures and instruments to improve coordination of transport infrastructure financing and to identify potential cases of over- and double-financing. this should be done in cooperation with the member states, where appropriate. i 'll add: the responsible must be identified at all levels and consequences must be drawn. there are also shortcomings in road safety and passenger rights. in the field of road safety, only 60% of payment appropriations were used and only 11% of payment appropriations were spent on protecting passenger rights. that too must change in the future. in conclusion, i would like to thank the court of auditors very much. i call on the commission to close these shortcomings and to adopt the proposals so that the annual tradition of criticism by the court of auditors is successfully interrupted next year. as emsa notes in its annexes, the agencies for maritime and aviation safety should continue to make better use of their available resources, even though the agencies were new and experienced some difficulties in starting up in 2004.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. transparency is trust. this is the confidence of the citizens on which all the representatives and staff of the european institutions depend. europe is much better than its reputation here, but to create even more transparency is usually not as difficult as i will show in the following examples of the other institutions. for example, the ecj. when will the judges at the ecj finally reveal their financial interests? when will the court's internal auditor finally complete and make available to us at least some of the work listed in his work programme? when will the ecj finally fully apply the internal control standards? or the court of auditors. when will the members of the court of auditors disclose their financial interests and thus create the necessary transparency? or the committee of the regions. why were so few checks and inspections carried out? why has the internal auditor position been under-filled for such a long period of time? why has the committee of the regions not been able to complete its annual activity report by the time the court of auditors' audit is completed? the committee's deliberations were controversial, particularly within the cor. i am announcing today, as rapporteur for the discharge for the other institutions for 2005, that i will be looking at this very carefully. on the subject of the strasbourg rent scandal, i have just one word to say: i am very pleased that at least a large majority of members are able to separate this case from the fundamental debate on our seat in parliament.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank the rapporteur and the speakers for the work they have put into this report. unfortunately, the commission cannot be seen as a perfectly good financial instrument during the period under consideration. the commission's accounts raise questions. there are unofficial accounts in the commission which we do not know about, which have not been included in the commission's balance sheet and which give the impression of an incomplete discharge report. mr mulder will be tabled tomorrow, at my request, with two oral amendments in which parliament will ask for a report on these accounts, their examination and their transfer to the balance sheet and the budget. i'm asking for your support. we ask the commission to tell us as soon as possible what is going on with these accounts and we thank it for trying to clarify this itself. thankfully, in october 2005 it conducted a written survey among its financial staff with the aim of identifying accounts and their subscribers, those accounts which are directly or indirectly related to commission activities and which are unknown until now. we in germany would call it "black accounts". it is a question of accounts which were already known, but not everywhere, and also of accounts which were previously unknown. the accounts which were already known to date are, for example, rental income from the former commission supermarket 'economat', which has now been privatised, in the commission's premises on rue de la science. the amount involved is several million euros. i think that access to these accounts is unclear, and that is why i am calling for a speedy clarification, and more quickly than the commission has done so far. many questions remain unanswered, such as why these accounts were in the past maintained without the knowledge and control of the commission by persons who were clearly not authorized to do so. it would also be nice to know how many accounts there are. how many were known, we know allegedly how many were unknown, we do not yet know. i wonder why these accounts were not shown in the budget. i do not need to stress how astonishing it is that these substantial sums are being withheld from the budgetary authority which is democratically entitled to do so.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european commission, after years of studying the asset management sector, presented a green paper in august 2005 and invited comments. in total, some 121 responses were received, clearly indicating the importance of the sector. the industry is booming. ucits (corporate social security institutions) are now a brand name, and not just in europe. they are also traded in singapore, taiwan, and hong kong, and they are on the rise in south america. in the european union alone, the value of total investment in this sector last year was over eur 4 600 billion. this is about eur 900 billion more than in 2004. the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament decided to draw up its own own initiative report in response to the european commission's green paper. as rapporteur, i have always had the following objectives in mind: a functioning internal market for ucits, an attractive and safe product offering for investors, especially retail investors, and an efficient asset management industry that does not need to fear increasing global competition. the single market exists today, but it is not yet fully operational. this means that consumers do not have optimal access to comparable products and that industry cannot benefit from economies of scale in a large, single market. five areas need to be revised. first, the area of eligible assets. the eligibility criteria are interpreted differently by the national supervisory authorities. this results in a fund being approved in one country but not in another. the development of the product has its price, and if a product cannot be marketed throughout europe but only for individual countries, this leads to a considerable cost disadvantage. the aim must therefore be to define precisely and uniformly throughout europe the plants which can be selected. i agree with cesr, the committee of european securities regulators, that it should be possible to mix also listed real estate funds, the so-called reits (real estate investment trust), private equity funds and certificates to a certain extent. i also think it is worth considering the inclusion of umbrella hedge funds. secondly, the so-called notification procedure. in other words, the application for authorization in a member state is described in the directive as a notification procedure, but in practice it has become an authorization procedure. the supervisory authorities measure with a different scale and do not communicate sufficiently with each other. the result is uncertainty, loss of time and unnecessary additional costs for industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. thirdly, the area of simplified prospectuses. the commission's recommendation on this subject has been implemented in different ways by the member states. simplified prospectuses are now thin brochures or thick books containing information which varies from one member state to another and is often completely incomprehensible to the consumer. a simple, harmonised prospectus of two to three pages must be developed as quickly as possible and introduced uniformly and compulsorily throughout europe. industry will also benefit from having to provide the same information in each country, always in the national language. fourthly, the issue of crossborder mergers and pooling. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the fifth point is the processing of funds. here the efforts of industry are promising. we should therefore trust industry to solve the problems on its own initiative. the commission seems to share this view. i am firmly convinced that corrective action in these five areas will contribute relatively quickly to a functioning internal market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the lamfalussy principle should apply to amended areas of the directive. this creates flexibility and the ability to adapt to rapidly changing markets. the commission has for some time been examining whether the directive can be adapted to market developments by individual measures or whether a fundamentally new directive will have to be adopted. i have come to the conclusion as rapporteur that a complete reworking of a horizontal asset management policy with full lamfalussy application would be a major project that would take decades. we cannot and should not afford to waste time like this. the subject was discussed three times in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and once in an extended exchange of views. the numerous amendments - some 150 in number - have been reduced by a number of compromise proposals and the overall report was adopted by only one vote against in the econ committee (economic and monetary affairs). the socialist group is now calling into question the compromise reached with its amendment no 6. i think that would destroy the spirit of our own-initiative report and show that parliament is incapable of making a constructive contribution after a long debate. we're not starting from scratch today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial markets are not affected by the crisis. we have a duty to all these citizens as the european parliament. i therefore propose that we vote against the pse amendment, particularly against amendment no 6. if he fails to reach a majority, we would advise the house not to vote in favour of the report.
thank you, mr tajani, and thank you for informing us. i am sure that the members of the house will support what you have said.
thank you very much, mrs frassoni. mrs frassoni referred to the results of the bureau meeting last night, which most of the members are probably not aware of. mrs frassoni, i recommend that you write to the president about this. but i also recommend that you inform your secretaries-general and your co-chairs and ask them to address it in the conference of presidents. the question you raised was settled yesterday in the bureau by a vote with a narrow margin. if you want to come back to that, you will certainly have to do so through the political groups. i'm sure you'll take care of it and write to the president.
the next item is the report by mr titley, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on road safety: the introduction of the ecall system among citizens (2005/2211 (ini)) (a6-0072/2006).
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to express my warmest thanks to parliament and most of all to its rapporteur mr titley for his report – and not only for his report but also for the energy with which he is pushing forward this very important facility for citizens. it is very encouraging to see that parliament recognises ecall as one of the priorities of the e-safety initiative, if not the key priority, and the first building block for the intelligent car initiative which i launched last february. i would also like to thank parliament because it gives the commission continuous support in the efforts to get the member states on board. as the rapporteur said: the difficult part of the project is getting them to sign the memorandum of understanding. i really hope that your report will give a positive signal to the member states so that we can have them all on board. i am pleased also to note that parliament shares our views on the emergency number 112 and calls on member states to make progress in the use of this number. you know that the commission has already taken steps, by organising a high-level conference on 112 in october last year and by setting up an expert group on emergency communication. parliament would like to synchronise the introduction of ecall with the galileo timetable. i agree that galileo will offer better positioning performances once it is operational. however, our target is to roll out ecall as soon as possible, and therefore i encourage the industry to develop a solution based on currently available technologies, such as gps. i agree with parliament that the cost-benefit analysis is critical, especially in making a convincing business case for ecall and i would like to underline the figures that your rapporteur has just quoted. i think this cost-benefit analysis shows that not only can you save lives, you can also save a good deal of money. some member states like finland have started their own analysis, which i welcome, and the commission has started a very comprehensive study called eimpact. the commission believes that the industry can produce in-vehicle systems that fulfil the performance criteria with affordable prices when produced in large volumes, so it is a question of getting started and then introducing the system in all cars. we in the commission do not intend to intervene with the industry on this issue, but we are encouraging equipment manufacturers to work with telecommunication equipment suppliers and mobile network operators in the design of the in-vehicle systems, which require reliability, robustness and functionality. i welcome parliament’s call to the stakeholders to look into the use of incentives. consumer studies indicate that, although they value safety very highly, consumers may not be willing to pay extra for safety features in cars. with the support of parliament we will continue to pursue two lines of discussion on the issue of incentives, namely the financial incentives with the member states and the possible reduction of insurance premiums with the insurance industry. regarding the issue of getting ecall to users in rural and isolated areas, i would like to point out that ecall is for all, including the more affordable car models. it is not a luxury car item but for all citizens and for all cars. how quickly its use will spread will of course depend on many things, for example, whether or not we manage to implement the incentive schemes. i believe that here there will be an after-market solution which will speed up the take-up of ecall. i can assure you that ecall is very high on the commission’s priority list and i am pleased that parliament has helped us by making it one of its priorities. we will therefore continue our common effort to commit member states to ecall.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i thank the commission for its initiative and the rapporteur for his report. it is a welcome contribution to making our roads safer. the everyday madness: road accidents. even the most advanced technology cannot completely avoid it. we are still seeing more than 41 000 people die on our roads every year, and more than 1.6 million are seriously injured. in the future, vehicles will become lifesavers when equipped with ecall, the electronic emergency call system, to call for assistance autonomously in the event of a major accident. of course, the call for help will also be triggered manually, for example, if you witness an accident or find yourself in a life-threatening situation. this makes it much easier for emergency services to reach the scene of an accident, especially if it is in a remote, hard-to-reach area. this will save up to eur 26 billion in accident costs each year. the 4.5 billion investment costs are probably well spent money. up to 7 000 lives can be saved by ecall each year, and approximately 45 000 people can reduce the severity of their injuries. if this isn't worth fighting for, what are we fighting for? more than one third of all accidents involving personal injury occur at night. more than half of these are single accidents. it is still a coincidence today when the victim of such an accident is discovered in time. especially in winter, it is a regular occurrence that motorists succumb to their injuries after accidents on lonely roads. they die of hypothermia, not from the immediate consequences of their accident. after all, the decision about life or death after an accident often falls in what medical doctors call the first "golden hour". in order to ensure that the ecall electronic emergency call system is operational as soon as possible, the european union should make clear to the member states the importance of rapidly establishing a satellite-based system of emergency call points and infrastructures. such a system should be operational by the end of 2009. in addition to the implementation of these infrastructures, industry should be obliged to offer all new vehicles equipped with ecall technology from a certain date. as buyers of lower-priced vehicles in particular are reluctant to invest extra money in safety equipment, i would like the system to be introduced in series production by the automotive industry in order to reduce costs to a minimum as soon as possible. ecall is also vital, especially for motorcyclists who often cannot make their own emergency calls. the same applies to trucks and buses. it is taken for granted that ships and aircraft have long been equipped with a comparable system. emergency services, police and motoring associations, regional politicians, media representatives and even senior citizens' associations in my constituency are hoping for a mandatory introduction of ecall. we're not there yet. i ask you to approve the report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. since all the sensible groups have spoken in favour of the ecall system, i shall not repeat the same arguments and the advantages of this system for the benefit of the people. i would like to focus on one aspect which is a prerequisite for this system, namely that there are emergency call centres and that there are also modern emergency call centres, because i see some white spots in the system of emergency call centres in the 25 european countries. we should also look at the two new countries, bulgaria and romania, because if we want to introduce the system, emergency call systems must also be in place there. i therefore appeal to the commissioner to have a serious discussion with the member states on the implementation of the joint decisions. i do not want to threaten, but community law provides that we even have legislative competence for road safety issues, and emergency call centres are probably one of them - a key prerequisite for promoting road safety. we should therefore ask the member states to get their act together, because it is not helping us if we leave road safety primarily to the member states and then do not even put it into joint decisions. i therefore appeal to you, madam commissioner, to talk seriously with the member states and to use all the possibilities of the commission, because without sensible and ubiquitous emergency call systems such a system is worthless. as you said, mr titley, if there is an accident in the countryside, help must come, not in the big city. but for that to happen, there has to be a nationwide emergency system. commissioner, you have thanked the rapporteur for the energy he has put into this. we should thank you for the energy with which you pursue this project.
the commission has already done so. we have recently discussed in this house the mid-term review of the european road safety action programme. we have all agreed that the chances of achieving the targets we set ourselves, namely halving the number of road deaths by 2010, are relatively low. ecall can help us reduce that number. we know that ecall is not a goal for accident prevention, and we must definitely do better in this area and in the future. but ecall is a system that can dramatically reduce the damage caused by accidents. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. if we can get emergency services to work across the board, that will be a mosaic of help for the injured, a reduction in the number of serious injuries and deaths as well. i do not want to argue about the figures and whether they are all correct as they are now seen. it's completely independent, too. if we can manage to have 7,000 fewer deaths, 7,000 times less human suffering, then it is worth every effort. i therefore support this document, and my group of course supports it massively, and i would like to take this opportunity of thanking the rapporteur and the commission for their work.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. ecall is clearly a win for europe and its citizens. the emphasis is on preventing death and reducing human suffering, but the economic benefits and efficiency gains for road infrastructure must not be ignored. it is a european added value in the field of road safety, which, despite the single european transport market, is still primarily the responsibility of the member states, mr jarzembowski. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is not a good one. the ecall programme gives us a taste of what galileo will be able to do in the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that's why it's worth the effort.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i refer to rule 168 (2) of the rules of procedure. i have heard that there are problems in three groups with this draft resolution, which is why there is a danger that on this important subject, which is of course related to the debate and also to the statute for members, there may be no majority or no large majority. that would be desirable! i therefore ask that this proposal be referred back to the legal affairs committee. if that is not possible or if no decision is taken, i would ask that the vote be postponed until the next part-session. first, however, there is the question of referral back. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we actually wanted to give the european parliament and the administration a discharge today - and i want to make that very clear at the beginning. but in the last two days new events have come to light, new facts too, which we were unable to verify when we were preparing this report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have had several meetings of the committee on budgetary control to review this situation and to work out a solution. however, after careful reading of the rules of procedure, we have not found a legal basis which is perfectly suitable for this, but on the other hand we have complied with the requirements of the financial regulation, so i propose that we vote against discharge in accordance with the second sentence of article 5 (1) (a) of annex v, which does not mean that we do not grant discharge. but we automatically gain six months to check these additional facts that have come to the table and thus have a proper procedure so that all the questions that need to be answered can also be clarified. i therefore ask that the first vote be against it. this will enable all the questions raised to be answered in a clean procedure. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i also agree with the rapporteur's opinion. this regrettable development from a legal point of view does not in any way justify any negative conclusions being drawn today either towards the administration, the city of strasbourg or third parties. we are taking this approach for procedural reasons and are not yet commenting on the matter. i hope the facts will come out soon, so we can get the discharge out soon.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the report was discussed very late yesterday. so attendance was low. i would therefore like to make a brief comment on one of the amendments. the report has been very well received by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. there were some 150 amendments which could be worked out essentially by compromise proposals. the discussion in econ was, among other things, about whether we should recommend to the commission that the weaknesses identified in the current directive be overcome by individual legislative measures and by industry's own initiative, or whether we should propose to the commission that a completely new directive be drawn up. we have decided to go with the former, that is to say, against a completely new directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore call for amendment no 6 to be rejected because it basically upends the logic of the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in accordance with rule 168 of the rules of procedure, my group would like to ask that the speroni report, which concerns the waiver of the immunity of our colleague mr pflüger, not be dealt with, but that it be referred back to the committee on legal affairs. i think that this would be an appropriate decision, because the fact that only eight colleagues in the legal affairs committee decided whether or not to waive immunity casts a bad light on us, and we should avoid that. the lifting of immunity may affect any of us, but it cannot be that less than one third of the members who work in the committee concerned are actually present at the vote, and that is why i ask that we do not vote but that we refer the report back to committee.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would ask you to reject this motion as inadmissible. article 7 finally settles the question of the immunity procedure. article 7 (8) states: 'the report of the committee shall be placed as the first item on the agenda of the meeting immediately following its submission.' it goes on to say: 'the proposal or proposals for a decision contained in this report shall be put to the vote in the first ballot following the debate.' this is a mandatory provision designed to speed up the immunity procedure and, if this proposal were admissible, it would be able to override this mandatory provision in practice. if you do not reject the motion as inadmissible, i would still ask that it be rejected altogether because it is pointless. it is pointless because we in the legal affairs committee took a unanimous decision, because there was no dispute between the groups on the question of this decision and also because article 7 (8) clearly provides for a procedure for this. if you are against the substance of this proposal, all you have to do is vote against it. if he then finds a majority, the result is automatically reversed. in view of this, neither a postponement nor a postponement is appropriate. i therefore ask that this motion for a resolution be put to the vote tomorrow in plenary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have been asked about this subject at the conference of presidents, as have many other colleagues. i am not a lawyer, unlike mr lehne, so i thought it would be a little easier. but now the lawyers have spoken. i must admit that i did not understand what mr lehne said, but perhaps that is my fault. i do not want to comment on the arguments of mrs kaufmann and mr lehne. i have one request, however: we should stipulate that immunity issues will no longer be discussed in the conference of presidents in future, because as chairman of the political group i feel overwhelmed by such a complicated procedure. in my sense of justice, i agreed to refer the matter back, because if a committee has only eight people voting and several groups are not represented at all, then in my sense of legal certainty it might be better to refer the matter back and not make formal mistakes. but if a formal error is caused by a transfer back, it is better to leave it at that. i have been instructed to do better and i therefore think that we should follow mr lehne, but i would also ask that immunity procedures be discussed only in plenary in future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. immunity matters should be dealt with either by the immunity committee or by the plenary. i would like to ask once again that the conference of presidents no longer deal with immunity issues because i feel unable to decide on them in the conference of presidents. that's all i said, and that's all i was going to say. i am not going to take part in such debates in the conference of presidents any longer as the chairman of the group of the european people's party.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not in a position to name the article now. i refer to what you have just said about the council, mr president. i would like to say to the house what i said to the conference of presidents about the council's announcement that it could not be present. i do not think that the european parliament can accept such a statement from the council. i believe that the austrian government has 16 members and 16 state secretaries. these are 32 possible persons who might be able to represent the council here in parliament after 7 p.m. i think it is absolutely inappropriate for a council presidency to declare that it cannot be here after 7 p.m. simply because the parliament's calendar has changed. i wonder what would happen in a national parliament if an executive there said that it would be closed after 7 p.m. this is not acceptable. you should tell the council. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have a monitoring function as a parliament, and just as we naturally expect the commission to be present, we expect the council to be present. we are not talking about the presidency, but about the council as such. i would ask the general secretariat of the council in particular to advise the presidency in such a way as to ensure that it is present. we support what mr schulz has rightly said.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation of political prisoners in russia is very bad. in particular, in the case of mikhail khodorkovsky, prisoners are physically and psychologically exhausted by various measures. while the seriously ill platon lebedev is inadequately cared for beyond the arctic circle, khodorkovsky was attacked in his cell at night. no clear statements have been made about this incident. it's incomprehensible how something like this can happen when the prisoners are under constant surveillance. this incident confirms the dire conditions in russian prisons. the russian presidency of the council of europe is an opportunity to approach russia to urge the government to agree to an independent medical examination of khodorkovsky and lebedev, which has so far been refused. i call on the council and the commission to press russia to ensure that human rights are respected in prisons.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission's proposal to amend the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the european union has long been perceived by the public in our member states as being far too bureaucratic and regulatory. it is therefore high time that we faced up to this justified criticism. less, but better quality - that can ultimately mean more, and it would certainly be good for europe and its citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is not just the commission that is called upon, but parliament itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the question is how the commission and parliament work together as institutions and whether the commission takes due account of parliament's role as legislator. as you know, the announcement by the commission that it would withdraw or amend existing legislative proposals has caused quite a stir in this house, not only from an institutional point of view. the specific proposals have been examined in detail by parliament's committees and an exchange of letters has been subsequently held between the presidents of our institutions. the commission has not adopted the amendments proposed by parliament, but the parliament has not adopted the amendments proposed by the commission. mr commissioner, almost exactly a year ago parliament and the commission adopted a framework agreement which has put cooperation between our two institutions on a new footing. the constitutional committee has therefore examined not only the contractual aspects of the package you have announced, but of course also the framework agreement itself, in particular points 31, 32 and 33. in short, we see a need for regulation that goes beyond the framework agreement. we therefore expect the commission not to close itself off to our proposals but to join them in the spirit of loyal cooperation with parliament. the whole process has shown, firstly, that the general agreement which has been reached so far to inform our house in advance of the commission's intentions is not enough. we must be informed in advance. the timeliness of the procedure means that parliament cannot simply give its opinion on the intended adoption of proposals. we expect, of course, that our position will be taken into account in the final decision of the commission. if the commission decides otherwise than parliament does for important reasons, we expect that this will at least be explained to us. secondly, the commission should adopt a different approach in future, based on the principle of discontinuity applied at national level. each new commission should, immediately after taking office, draw up a list of the legislative proposals made by its predecessor commission, indicating which of the pending legislative proposals it intends to retain. in addition, the annual legislative and work programme should indicate which of the proposals in the legislative process are to be withdrawn or amended. thirdly, the present de-slagging initiative has a package. a package with an attached list of proposals, accompanied by a package justification. apart from the fact that i personally cannot understand why the criterion of competitiveness is being declared the principle of all principles and elevated to a sort of nobility, i would like to stress as rapporteur that a package justification is exactly what we do not want in the future. it was the explanatory statement that caused a lot of irritation. it is not the role of parliament to examine the commission's ideas and to attribute the principles set out in the explanatory statement to each proposal. this is precisely the task of the commission when it wishes to withdraw or amend certain proposals, and that is why we want every single proposal for withdrawal to be justified separately in future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that if you had explained your proposals piece by piece, you would not have gotten bogged down in the thick of your own authority. in that case you would not have announced that you were withdrawing the proposal for a council decision authorizing the accession of the european community to the joint convention on the safety of spent fuel management and on the safety of radioactive waste management. then you would have noticed that this one has already been decided. it is published in the official journal l 30 of 2005. the commission does not have the power to declare invalid laws which have already been adopted. if you had looked at it individually, you would not have announced the withdrawal of proposals which have already been withdrawn, you would probably have noticed the error. mr president, commissioner, the subject of my report concerns the cooperation between our two institutions. the ec treaty contains very little in this area. it also leaves room for the institutions involved, that is, parliament and the commission, to work together in a responsible manner. i hope that my report will help to improve the institutional structure of the union and to promote the duty of loyal cooperation between our two institutions. i thank the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups for the good cooperation which has enabled us to present this report unanimously.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. better regulation is a priority for the commission and the constitutional committee has welcomed this initiative, as has parliament. in fact, there is a lot of rubbish to be found in legislation. it is partly a question of simplification, of codifying legislative packages, but also of withdrawal when they no longer make sense. i would like to thank mrs kaufmann for the excellent report she has presented and i would like to make three comments: chancellor merkel raised the question in the german bundestag on wednesday whether we should not also introduce the concept of discontinuity from one legislative period to another, that is, laws should be abolished and re-introduced. we have seen this problem with the bolkestein directive: the old commission proposed something which the new commission did not want to see any more in this way, partly because things have changed and opinions have changed. i therefore think it would be good if the commission, at least at the beginning of its legislative term, took a look at the proposals on the table and said: we will keep these because they fit our programme and we will withdraw those because they are outdated for content or other reasons. second remark: mr corbett has rightly pointed out that over time parliament has acquired the right to vote and that article 250 (2) is therefore lacking. it simply says that the commission is no longer allowed to withdraw under the council's common position. but it does not say that it cannot do so after parliament's first reading. there is a gap in the treaties which can only be filled acceptably if we are very loyal to each other, if - as has been said here on several occasions - parliament is involved in the commission's ideas of withdrawing projects, especially if we have carried out a first reading. we have even said, mr vice-president, that you yourself can withdraw from the council's common position if the council denatured the commission's proposal. it is said that on two or three occasions the council has taken a decision which was the exact opposite of what the commission wanted to propose. the legal service also told us that in this case you had the right to withdraw. thirdly, you mentioned the growth and employment strategy, and it is on this basis that these 68 regulations have been assessed. i am glad that you say that this is what should be done in the case of european association law. i live in a border region with lorraine and luxembourg, the saar-lor-lux region, and i can tell you the difficulties that civil society organisations have in setting up an association across the border. the interregional press institute of journalists, for example, searched and then acted in a way that was in accordance with french law, because the chairman was in france. other associations then seek luxembourg or german law. that's not fair. you should think about this and maybe come up with a more modern proposal. but overall, we're working well together on this journey.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking both rapporteurs, mrs poli bortone and mrs scheele, for their excellent work and cooperation with my services in working out this compromise. i also wish to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their contribution. it is true that it was not an easy task. you will remember the great differences that separated the views of the three institutions on this issue. however, i believe – and the rapporteurs have rightly said – that we have managed to reach a good compromise. that is a fact. however, as with any compromise, it leaves a little to be desired by all sides, so each side would have preferred to go a bit further in one direction or another. nevertheless, these compromises on both documents have managed to balance the interests of all involved: consumers, industry and economic operators. but this is a delicate and sensitive balance and i believe that the two documents should be adopted as agreed in the compromise, because anything else would upset this balance and would definitely upset the compromise. these two regulations state that, if economic operators voluntarily use claims or other marketing tools to sell their products, they have to be truthful and accurate and the claims must be scientifically based. this means that it is the consumer’s choice – it is ultimately for the consumer to decide – but the consumer has to be presented with correct, accurate and scientifically-based information in order to make this informed choice. i agree with the rapporteur that this is a very important step in the long-term struggle that has just begun for the health and nutrition of european citizens. the health claims regulation will prevent consumers from being misled by unsubstantiated or misleading claims. at the same time, it will provide harmonised rules allowing products to circulate freely in the internal market. it will also create a clear legal environment, a level playing field for economic operators to ensure fair competition, and it will encourage investment in innovative food practices. for example, in addition to the list of permitted nutritional claims or the list of physiological function claims, it will now allow, through an authorisation procedure, claims related to the reduction of a disease risk, something that until now has been prohibited. so, these harmonised rules will be of great interest to the european food industry but, through the process we have adopted in the legislation, we also guarantee consumer protection. also, for health claims based on newly developed data, the compromise now provides for a simpler and faster procedure in order to boost innovation in the area of food. i am sure parliament recognises the effort that both the commission and the council have made on that point. on the nutrient profiles, which have already been described, these are products that, on the basis of the claims, are made to appear better to consumers, encouraging more consumption. we therefore need proper criteria in this respect. the nutrient profile is one good criterion that could be used and the proposed compromise introduces flexibility in order to facilitate the application and use of these claims. in the context of this compromise, i should like to make the following statement:‘in establishing the nutrient profiles referred to in article 4(1) through the regulatory committee procedure, the commission undertakes to accompany the proposed commission measures, submitted to the standing committee on the food chain and animal health, with an explanatory note outlining the criteria that will be taken into account for the establishment of the nutrient profiles.’ as i have said, i believe that this is a good compromise which covers the interests of all the key stakeholders. on the regulation concerning the addition of vitamins and minerals, again we have reached a good compromise. on the basis of this compromise, i should like to make the following statement: ‘further to its statement accompanying the adoption of the common position, the commission has the intention to present, as soon as possible and in any case within two years of the adoption of the regulation, a proposal for the revision of directive 90/496/eec on nutrition labelling for foodstuffs. in that context, the commission has the intention to consider the review of the rule concerning the meaning of ‘significant amount’ as mentioned in the annex to that directive.’ i very much hope that parliament will support this compromise package, which regulates the composition aspects of foods and ensures the safety of the product. it also introduces appropriate specific rules on labelling, presentation and advertising, and at the same time provides the basis for scrutinising and if necessary regulating the addition of certain other substances, as already mentioned by the rapporteur. that will ensure a very high level of protection for public health and consumer protection and at the same time allow the industry to have a stable, concise, clear regulatory environment that will allow for innovation and the need to remain competitive at community and international level. in conclusion, may i again thank the two rapporteurs and everyone else who has cooperated in achieving this compromise. i am looking forward to an interesting debate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we fought against this law for three years, and in the meantime we had achieved good stage victories. in fact, tomorrow we'll only have the choice between the devil and beelzebub. we must accept the compromise package from the informal trilogue, even though we do not like it at all, commissioner. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. that's the facts! the law - and the compromise - is also a form of disenfranchisement of the citizen: the classification of foodstuffs into good and bad by means of mythical nutritional profiles. to date, after three years of discussion, the commission has not been able to present even a rough outline for these profiles. so tomorrow we are forced to vote for something that does not exist! is this the reliable policy we are being forced to adopt? the science says - and i disagree with you, mrs poli bortone - that the whole approach is nonsense, because food advertising is not responsible for people becoming fatter. this is a very complex, societal problem. you can't eliminate that by censoring advertising. the approach of wanting to evaluate individual foods is really wrong and, in my view, stupid. do you eat dry cornflakes all day? i'm not doing it. but we have not lost completely - and i am a little proud of that - not least because of our opposition. we have also saved the fresh produce in particular. we should not even have been able to say that fruit is healthy without providing a scientific test for the fruit at the time of its sale. that shows the ridiculousness of the whole approach! and we saved the cough drops, too. it's a shame you have to do this. we have also introduced rescue clauses for smes. it's a shame that we have to do this, that there are laws that require this. that makes all sunday speeches lies! mr verheugen just had another one. smes will suffer under this law. it's going to cost jobs. it will destroy laws. it will not bring any added value to the consumer because it will not reduce obesity and because we already have laws that protect the consumer from misleading advertising. the council and the commission know all this, but they have stood as a concrete wall against this parliament - in the closest shoulder to shoulder that i have ever seen. i have the impression that the council is entirely in the hands of commission officials, in the hands of officials who themselves want to make more and more policy, legitimized by nothing and no one, but well paid by the citizen; not controlled, but well paid by the citizen. and the citizen must pay the price in the end. the citizen must pay for this law by losing his job. this law is the exact opposite of what is always said in these fine speeches by the commission: cutting red tape, better legislation, the lisbon agenda, etc. this law is designed to massively increase the european scepticism of our citizens! i mean, we can't let that happen, and we have to agree tomorrow, or we're going to have something very terrible. that's what i said at the beginning. but i am convinced that something can still be done about this bureaucratic madness. i shall ask the german government to consider whether it can bring an action against this regulation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am glad that the poli bortone report is finally bringing reason back to the european parliament and that we are hopefully giving the green light tomorrow and thus giving consumer protection a boost. today is about more honesty. are we going to allow consumers to be sold foods that are too fatty, too sweet, too salty, and that companies can boast about health promises? nobody wants to ban the sale of fries, coke or candy. but we cannot allow these foods to continue to be masked as health and wellness. it is not about banning advertising, but about new marketing rules. we need minimum standards to ensure fairness in marketing. harmonised rules create legal certainty, and businesses also benefit. a survey showed that 70% of consumers trust manufacturers' health claims. this regulation is therefore a key piece of legislation, not only for greater transparency in consumer protection, but also for greater health protection. currently, over 200 million adults and 14 million children in the european union are overweight or obese. diet-related type ii diabetes is increasing dramatically, especially in children. we're facing the problem that obesity and lack of exercise may replace smoking as the number one cause of death in statistics. we therefore think that this compromise is a good compromise and a good package. i would have liked to see more objectivity and honesty in this debate. in germany alone, we are dealing with 71 billion euros of consequential costs from diet-related problems, which makes it clear that we have to deal with this. i also hope that the german government will not follow mrs sommer's suggestion and bring a legal action. any government, not just the german government, which first approves in the council and then complains would make a laughing stock of itself and lose credibility. so i hope that tomorrow we will be setting a milestone for more consumer and health protection.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after the council ignored parliament's unequivocal vote on health claims at first reading, we now come to a compromise which i will agree to with a grinding of teeth, because, as mrs sommer rightly said, we now have a choice between a major and a minor evil. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade mark is protected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not subject to the same restrictions as those imposed on the other member states. i still believe that the nutritional profiles are a misguided concept. obesity and overweight are very serious problems. the emotional debate on this will be brought back to us at the latest with the green paper on the promotion of healthy eating. i would like to make a quick point here: advertising does not make you fat. the causes of obesity are many and highly complex, and the solution is not to impose further bans. we should not be looking for a solution against the food industry, but with it.
the commission has already done so. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very good one. but what has been presented here is really only characterized by high bureaucracy; it's not very useful, and it's really just saying: there are bad food manufacturers, there are juvenile consumers, there are bad and good foods, and the bad ones contain salt, fat and sugar. this is now to be corrected by nutrient profiles. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because these nutritional profiles, i can't even begin to imagine them. and i still hear the statement from mr podger of the food safety authority, who has made it quite clear that he does not know how to create such profiles. that is why this proposal is legislation in the dark, far from reality, far from social processes and far from the citizen. it will be very, very difficult to explain this bureaucratic work to the citizen. of course, you can go in and say, "well, we're just going to have scientifically backed data now". everyone wants to, but we're not going to get there with this legislation. so it is not really very good that we are passing this legislation in this form. and it was not good that the commission and the council had put forward exactly the same proposal at second reading, because the first approach of parliament after the first reading was the basis for further, targeted discussion. what we are doing now is suppressing competition and the market economy. i don't think that's good for our society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to congratulate mrs scheele on her report, which is a good dossier with amendments. i would like to thank mrs poli bortone, who has certainly put a lot of work into a complex and comprehensive report, but unfortunately it does not meet my expectations. the council and the commission have still used their position of power against parliament and we are now forced to agree to prevent even greater damage. the heads of the administrative community, the council and the commission, have prevailed against the political will of a majority in parliament. a good draft which was changed at first reading was effectively skeletonized. i'm not against nutritional profiles, but there are basics to a dossier. firstly, the commission's specific proposals are lacking, a pre-production model, so to speak. the expertise of medical, nutritional and psychological experts must be taken into account, as must a balanced positioning. i ask about the european added value, about the feasibility and the possibilities of how smes can continue to survive here. i also wonder whether consumer protection should and can be not only a form of protection but also a form of help in making one's own decisions. the scientific evidence suggests that the expected impact on the eating and consumption behaviour of europeans, especially children, is likely to be zero. but then we have created a new bureaucratic monster which convinces our citizens that europe is worthwhile. we'll swallow this toad. there are nutritional profiles for toads, for example, "too slippery". but i hope it's the last toad.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to thank you very much, commissioner wallström. you are one of the truly outstanding figures in the commission, who is committed not only to plan d but also to the democratization of europe as a whole and to greater effectiveness in the commission's action. i would like to say on behalf of our group that you are one of the figures who can be described as an asset for progress in europe. your speech also made it clear once again that we can trust and rely on you as vice-president of the commission in charge of plan d. what has been the result of this period of reflection which has always - mr méndez de vigo has said this - threatened to degenerate into a siesta? the citizens of europe want more transparency. they want to understand better what's going on inside the institutions. they want a clearer division of powers: who does what, where, when, on what legal basis? they want more efficiency in legislation and administration. the citizens of europe want subsidiarity to be strengthened. not everything has to be in brussels, some things can be done at home. not everything can be solved at home, so it should be settled in brussels. that is a clear message. the citizens therefore also want the eu to be strengthened in international politics. they want the eu to be an effective organ for fighting crime. we know all that! this is our task, the council's and the commission's. but it's all in the constitution. we all know that we need the constitution if we are to meet these demands of the citizens. it is clearer than ever, at the very end of the reflection phase, that it is not possible to meet the demands of citizens on the basis of the treaty of nice. this was not possible at 15 years old, so nice had to be changed and replaced by a constitution, and now we are soon 27 and have no constitution. how can it be now? the commission is the guardian of the treaties. no one should, without a shadow of a doubt, have to fight for this constitution more than the president of the commission. so thank you, mrs wallström, but let me be clear to the president of the commission: how can you go to an interparliamentary conference like last week, where the overwhelming majority of the national and european parliamentarians present are in favour of the constitution, and the next president of the council, mr vanhanen, at the same time declares that during his presidency of the council he wants to have the constitution symbolically ratified in finland, and then, as president of the commission, leave a doubt about it - and the doubt exists - that you yourself are prepared to say to the heads of state and government: if you do not implement the constitution with me, this enlarged europe will be reduced to immobility, to immobility? i'll give you an example. the last informal council meeting on the services directive in luxembourg was attended by 25 labour ministers and representatives of the commission and the european parliament. after the first two and a half hours of debate, each minister had three minutes to speak. that is a lot in relation to the european parliament, but it is not proportionate to the matter on the agenda. with an elephant body like ecofin you cannot make sensible policy in europe. this is the opposite of good administration, clear legislation and effectiveness! we are reaching our limits with the structures we have today. if you want to make europe more democratic, more transparent and more effective, we have to deliver to the people , you don't have to formulate it, you have to put it into practice. we need the constitution. as long as messages emanate from the commission's bureau, and in particular from its president, which cast doubt on the european union's determination to uphold the constitution, the opponents of the constitution may think that we have given up. no, the supporters of the constitution, mrs wallström, are behind you, and they are in the majority. there are opponents of the constitution in this parliament. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) they are a minority who are now speaking out. the overwhelming majority in this house is for the constitution. the overwhelming majority of member states are in favour of the constitution. the overwhelming majority in the commission is in favour of the constitution. so we have every chance. then let us fight together. that is also true of mr barroso. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the commission and not insignificant parts of this parliament have distanced themselves very far from the citizens of europe. citizens not only want to understand better what is going on in the institutions, they want to be more involved. they want to be consulted, they want to be able to decide, they want to be able to participate in the debate on the future of europe, and they want this to be taken into account. i have a different idea of the term 'listening' that mr barroso uses over and over again. this is where we need to change something so that we can finally have a real debate on the future of the european union. in his hundred trips, the president should have not just preached, but really listened. all those involved could have heard from many people concrete ideas of what the european union should look like in the future. a few days after the european social forum in athens, the european commission held a press conference to present its initiative for a citizens' agenda, or a citizen-centred policy programme. but if anyone had expected that there would be even a reference to the discussions during the european social forum, which was attended by at least 35 000 people, he was mistaken. however, the members of my group take this forum seriously and have contributed to the debate both before and during the forum on the european appeal 'europe gives citizens the say' and on the charter of principles for a different europe. this refutes all the assumptions that leftists within the european union would not be willing to discuss the future of the eu or to participate in a constitutional debate. i share the basic ideas of both papers. we need a genuinely democratic debate on the future of europe and the way forward. and this debate can only proceed from the premise that the dignity of every human being must be inviolable, that it must be respected and protected. that is why i find it grotesque when the president of the european commission says on 10 may 2006 that we must deliver results for europe through a basic programme that is close to the people. we have adopted today our proposal for a programme of principles close to the citizen, the communication proposes eleven initiatives aimed primarily at the internal market. this is where president barroso is remaining loyal. it maintains its basic view that the european union's objective must be to remain globally competitive. but that will never lead to a truly solidarity-based, social europe, with social cohesion at the forefront. and that is what the citizens of europe are criticizing! this is the path they don't want to be part of. they want a different set of priorities, and i think that should finally be taken into account. we must deal with this in the context of the constitutional process and the discussions on plan d within the european union.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because this is an idea that has brought us decades of peace and prosperity that few regions of the world have experienced in history. we should remember that, and that is a crucial point. this is simply taken for granted and no longer positively assessed. the fact that there will be no more war is no longer enough, although it is still a crucial point. we know how thin the ice of civilization is. but we are not even able to tell our citizens the real reasons for european unification, because we are only talking about the small stuff. and the small stuff is what governments talk about. if i remember that some have only talked about their net contributor role and the others get five billion, but complain that they did not get the extra ten million, and only talk about these ten million and then this is called a lack of solidarity of the europeans, then we should not be surprised that we have a situation in the population as we find it today. i would like to ask the national governments to tell the truth once again and to inform the population fully, and i would ask the commission not to relieve the governments of this responsibility and not to be too cautious in this matter. i hope that the paper presented here is a first starting point. but there should be no misunderstanding. it is right that we should try to bring europe back to its present form and make progress in important areas, because only progress is convincing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. it must be made clear that we are campaigning for the constitution and want to make good use of the time until the constitution enters into force, but that we are only achieving crucial objectives with the constitution, and not only in the institutional field, as regards voting rights, the number of seats, foreign and security policy, but above all for the citizens. it must be made clear that the citizens' constitution is the only thing that is at the centre of the debate, that this is not just a union of states but also a union of citizens, that there are citizens' rights, that the charter of fundamental rights is of fundamental importance for a future understanding of the european union, and that the european elections have something to do with the fact that the president of the commission is elected by the citizens and that the commission is linked to the will of the people. these are the crucial points we must advance, and here we are sometimes not courageous enough. i was very encouraged that a young member state, estonia, ratified this constitution by a vote of 73 to 1 on europe day - schuman day - two years after joining the european union. the finnish parliament's great achievement last week is also noteworthy. i hope that this will be an incentive for the next council presidencies, such as portugal. i expect the german presidency of the council to fulfil its obligation under the coalition agreement, as chancellor merkel said in the bundestag last week: we want this constitutional agreement and we will take all the initiatives to ratify it! i hope, madam vice-president, that the commission will join in with full courage! (applause from the right)
mr president, madam vice-president wallström, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the basic question is: what do citizens want from political institutions? they want solutions, sometimes -- yes, sometimes -- a vision, and they want their problems, their fears, their worries to be taken seriously. the results of france and the netherlands show that we have not been sufficiently successful as a european union. but this rejection has not plunged the european union into crisis. it has only made clear the crisis in which the union was already caught. according to eurobarometer, only 38% of citizens in germany believe that their vote counts. so we need an active effort to get the people to agree to the eu, and now is the chance to do so. the first step is very simple. we must make it credible that the no of two eu countries is accepted as such. worse than a no is a no that is not taken seriously by the politicians. this does not mean that the constitution is dead, but that there must not be a vote on a constitutional treaty in its unchanged form. the constitution must be revised. the constitutional elements and the special policies must be separated. it is simply necessary to make clear that the union's objectives and values are not the same as, for example, specific policies on fisheries or e-waste. and the argument, the daily political argument, we need that too. it is usually in the field of technical policy. if the whole debate on the services directive has shown one thing, it is that the public is interested in what is happening here. arguments are the salt in the soup of democracy. i am not satisfied with the result - as many of you know - of the services directive, but i was satisfied that 30 000 people demonstrated in strasbourg. this is a real dialogue with the citizen, and compared to that, plan d sometimes has something artificial. but it must also be clear that we must respect the separation of powers. i therefore say quite clearly that anyone who promises here and now that national welfare state models can be transferred to the european level is deceiving the citizens. we have neither the money nor the legal basis, we have no jurisdiction. if you want to make social policy - and that is perfectly fine - then please do so from the national parliament. if we make empty promises, the 20 million unemployed will not have any prospects, and everyone else will make us feel more, not less, weary of europe. that is why i am calling for the european union to be democratized in its powers, to do its job well, and to ensure that at the next european elections we have a european-wide referendum on the revised text of the constitution and that we elect the president of the commission from among our own ranks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam vice-president, the european citizens' agenda is a well-intentioned initiative, but in the end it is a missed opportunity and therefore a disappointment. it is a missed opportunity because you give the impression that the whole programme could be fulfilled by the existing treaty of nice and that the constitutional treaty could be put on the back burner. at least that is the impression mr barroso has given in his speeches and statements, and that is what the citizens of europe have understood. the new plan d would have to do both. they should present the major challenges, also present solutions, but also say what is wrong with the existing treaty and what could be better with the new treaty. you're not making that communication. they hide behind governments and leave much of the work to us here in parliament. that's not enough. all the actionism about completing the internal market will not help to overcome the prejudices against the new treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this plan d does nothing to overcome these prejudices. the day of truth will come when we have to pass the treaty in the remaining states. i can only say that many small projects for europe do not replace the great european project of the constitution. i hope you manage to combine the two. only then did you do your job.
the commission has already done so. i also thank the rapporteur, who has worked very competently and cooperatively. the subject of marco polo has been discussed and evaluated at length, so i shall confine myself to a few points. the positive aspect is that the financial resources and instruments of marco polo are clearly better than those of its predecessors, from pact 1 to marco polo i. however, they are clearly too low in relation to the challenge of transport displacement. we must therefore first of all be very careful that projects are, firstly, essentially crossborder in order to ensure european added value and, secondly, that the reduction of the minimum funding thresholds by half actually strengthens and involves smes more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. fifthly, ensuring that the sustainability of the instruments is checked by the commission evaluating which projects will survive after six to ten years and, sixthly, by the commission checking which of the rejected projects will be realised even without funding, in order to minimise the carry-over effects of future programmes. the rack report is an uncontroversial report which should be implemented politically as soon as possible. the added value of these measures is immediately visible to the citizens; this is what we need at the moment.
in writing. after long discussions and much persuasion, we have not been able to find reality again. the composition of a particular food is not the decisive factor, but the overall picture in the interaction between a healthy, balanced diet adapted to the person in his particular situation (activity, age, sex). all of this should go into a profile. but because these factors are constantly changing, we have to recognize that there are no nutritional profiles, only the path of education and upbringing. the rural women in germany call this "learning everyday skills". this is best communicated in the family and through school and general education. i also hope that the further consideration of a "lighthouse designation" is just a silly joke. but who knows what "so clever a man" might come up with? an example of the unrealistic approach is that beverages with an alcohol content of more than 1.2% by volume (wine) may not be labelled. on the one hand, scientific profiles are required, on the other hand, the dissemination of scientific findings is prohibited. moreover, wine is already regulated in eu regulations, which must also apply here. we have discussed a great deal, but as the compromise shows, not enough. i supported the amendments in the hope that this would make the lazy compromise tolerable.
in writing. i reject the regulation on nutrition and health claims as adopted by the member states. the regulation provides for the compulsory establishment of nutrition profiles for all foodstuffs. furthermore, food may only be advertised with health and nutrition claims if these claims have been recognised in advance in a uniform european procedure. these regulations, which are supposed to combat poor dietary habits, create a high technical and bureaucratic burden for food manufacturers without addressing the root of the problem: obesity cannot be effectively combated by regulatory interventions, but only by changing eating and living habits. less time in front of the tv or computer and more exercise would be needed. the whole regulation also deprives the consumer of his rights and ultimately of his right to exercise his own judgement. the single authorisation procedure for health claims at the european food authority is a matter of concern. this is an unnecessary bureaucratic monster, which is particularly burdensome for our mediumsized enterprises. large companies can more easily afford this additional effort for an application. the additional costs for smes, on the other hand, are of an existential nature. this law is a counter to all efforts to cut red tape and to the proposals for 'better regulation'.
president of the commission. mr president, i am delighted to have the opportunity to present to you today the results of our assessment of bulgaria’s and romania’s preparations for accession and i look forward to discussing this with you. i would like to thank parliament, in particular its committee on foreign affairs, the chairman mr brok and the rapporteurs mr van orden and mr moscovici for their contribution to this important exercise. i very much appreciate the concerted spirit of our frequent discussions on this subject. as you know, the decision that the commission has taken today is the result of an extensive process of review and dialogue with all the major stakeholders. the starting point of our approach is that the european union must honour existing commitments. at the same time, we need to be rigorous as regards the criteria to be met by acceding countries. i should like to make a few brief remarks before, with your permission, giving the floor to mr rehn, who will comment in more detail on the commission’s findings in the monitoring report. since october, the governments of bulgaria and romania have worked extremely hard to deliver on their outstanding commitments. they have continued to make progress in their preparation for membership. let us give credit where it is due. however, there are still some important issues which need to be addressed. i would highlight, in particular, the need for further progress in the area of justice and home affairs. the commission considers that romania and bulgaria should be ready for membership by 1 january 2007, provided that they address a number of outstanding issues in the course of the next month. let me first turn to the situation in judicial reforms and the fight against corruption. we expect any acceding country to have in place a fully functioning judicial system equipped to fight corruption and organised crime. this is of paramount importance, since it underpins the functioning of the whole society and the economy. both countries have shown determination to undertake the necessary remaining reforms and our reports give them full credit for the results already achieved. bulgaria still needs to demonstrate clear evidence of results in the fight against corruption, in particular high-level corruption, notably in terms of investigations and subsequent judicial proceedings. it also needs to further reform the judiciary and remove any ambiguity regarding its independence. we also expect bulgaria to step up efforts on the investigation of organised crime networks. romania needs to continue its efforts and demonstrate further results in the fight against corruption, notably in terms of further investigations and subsequent judicial proceedings. it needs to consolidate the implementation of the ongoing judicial reforms. turning to the level of alignment of bulgaria and romania with the acquis communautaire, we have registered further progress. however, we still have serious concerns about a few sectors: agriculture and food safety, justice and home affairs and public finance. any acceding country needs to be in a position to implement the european union policies properly upon accession. the rules of the club must be respected. we expect bulgaria and romania to take immediate corrective action in those problematic sectors. no later than early october, we will review the situation with those outstanding issues. on that basis, the commission will consider whether it is still possible to adhere to the accession date of 1 january 2007. it is practicable for the two countries to be ready in 2007, but they must take decisive action. at the same time, the european union needs to give a clear signal that it stands ready to honour its commitments. that is crucial, in order to keep up the momentum. practical preparations for accession need to continue. i count on the support of all governments and parliaments that still need to complete their procedures to ratify the accession treaty. our approach is based on strict conditionality and adherence to undertakings. that approach has allowed us to gain strength and confidence from each enlargement. like the previous enlargements, especially that in 2004, the forthcoming enlargement will be a success. enlargement has always been europe’s response to strategic challenges and history has shown that this response has been the proper one. time and again, it has been accompanied by a dynamism that has given the enlarged europe a greater capacity to make its mark in the world. in the situation in which we find ourselves today, it is more important than ever to preserve the spirit of openness and ambition that has always inspired us to press ahead with the construction of europe. that is precisely why commissioner rehn and i have decided to go to bucharest today and sofia tomorrow to explain these issues and give the two countries a clear message of encouragement. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, on 1 may we celebrated the second anniversary of the latest enlargement. looking at the past two years, we have every reason to be satisfied and proud, even though at the time there was no lack of doomsday scenarios. yet the cassandras have been proven wrong. we can succeed equally well in the cases of bulgaria and romania. both countries are working hard to tackle the remaining shortcomings to fully meet the criteria of accession. the commission’s duty is to assess the progress made by the two countries to see if they are truly ready for accession. it is our goal to welcome bulgaria and romania as members in 2007 and it is our duty, as the guardian of the treaties, to ensure that once they join they really meet the conditions. hence, when we last met in late april, i promised you a carefully calibrated decision that maintains the momentum of reforms up to and beyond accession. now you have such a decision: bulgaria and romania may join in january 2007 on condition that they show the necessary resolve, mentality and results in tackling the outstanding shortcomings. by early october, we will report on their progress and consider whether the date can be maintained. bulgaria and romania have indeed undergone a monitoring process that is unprecedented in its scope and intensity. concerning the political criteria, while much has been achieved, there is still room for further progress. it is necessary effectively to implement the reform of the judiciary and to reinforce the fight against corruption, particularly at high level. bulgaria needs seriously to intensify its efforts to crack down on organised crime and corruption. it also needs to demonstrate clear evidence of results in the fight against corruption, in terms of investigations and judicial proceedings. building on the progress made so far, romania needs to continue its efforts and show further results in the fight against corruption. in the area of human rights and the rights of minorities, further efforts are needed by both bulgaria and romania. on the economic criteria, the transformation of the two countries is a remarkable success that is a win-win situation for everybody in europe. both countries have registered robust growth in the last years, creating a zone of much-needed economic dynamism at our south-eastern corner. as to the acquis, our legal order, significant progress has been achieved and most of the areas are unproblematic, provided that the current pace of preparations is maintained. however, in some areas the preparations require increased efforts, and we also have certain issues of serious concern. unless the countries take immediate and decisive corrective action, they will not be ready in these areas of serious concern at the envisaged date of accession. since october last year, the areas of serious concern have been brought down from 16 to 6 in bulgaria and from 14 to 4 in romania. they still include certain agricultural, food safety and veterinary issues, as well as the control and management of eu funds. should these serious concerns persist, we would not hesitate to use all our remedial tools. our report specifies the safeguards and other protective measures under the existing legislation that we have at our disposal. these safeguards could be invoked if certain limited problems persist at accession in the areas, for instance, of the internal market and justice and home affairs, where we can also establish a monitoring mechanism based on the accession treaty. on the use of eu money, the acquis will require a suspension of payments in case of serious problems. in agriculture, we even propose novel, stricter measures, based on the accession treaty that sends a strong signal that we are careful with our money. i trust that today’s carefully calibrated decision and its rigour will convince the national parliaments that have not yet ratified the accession treaty to do so. the treaty itself includes the conditions, safeguards and monitoring mechanisms that ensure the countries can join only once they are ready, and that once they have joined, they must respect their obligations as members. let me express our appreciation for the support of the european parliament for the accession process of bulgaria and romania. as agreed between president barroso and president borrell last year, we have listened carefully to your views before presenting our position on whether or not to postpone the accessions. i am sure this constructive, transparent and rigorous approach will bring the best results for bulgaria and romania, and for europe. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking the commission for the presence of the president of the commission and, of course, the member of the commission responsible on such an important subject. the group chairmen are here, the members are here. there could still be more, but today's pretty good. i note, however, that the council of ministers is not represented, as it was in the speech by the president of the palestinian authority. i do not think it is right that the council should not be represented at such an important debate. (applause from the centre) mr president, i would like to encourage you - and this is not just a matter for the presidency, i say this beyond the presidency - it is a matter for the general secretariat of the council to ensure that the council is present at such important debates. we support you, mr president, if you make this clear to the council and the general secretariat of the council and also to the presidency. now to the subject: bulgaria and romania are on their way to the european union. we look forward to it, and i would like to say a word of appreciation. the impression is often given that we are the teachers of the european union of 25 which we have been. what a tremendous achievement romania and bulgaria must make to overcome 45 years of dictatorial communist mismanagement and become democracies and states of law. we should recognize the long way these countries have come! (applause from the centre) we often criticize the administration in the european union, including that of our member states, at all levels - often rightly so - but i would also like to say this: how great it is that we have administrations based on law in the european union, in our member states. every administrative act, every official action, can be challenged in a court of law. all this is not available in the former communist countries. they have to build it. that is why it is so important that we build a legal system that has the quality of a rule of law. this is a tremendous effort. i say to the governments, parliaments and people - also in bulgaria and romania - understand our debate and our concerns about the lack of progress not as if we wanted to be the teacher, but as if we wanted to work together to make the accession of romania and bulgaria a success for all of us, for both countries and for the european union as a whole. we do not question the data, but i think it is a wise thing, mr president of the commission and mr commissioner rehn, for you to say: we want to encourage the two countries to tackle the remaining deficits - and they cannot do all this in the next few months - by means of legislation and also by practical implementation, so that we can then say in good conscience in the autumn: welcome to january 1st, 2007. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. everything is connected today. we must also remember that there are concerns among the people of the european union today. they're not quite used to the fact that we're a community of 25 now. ten countries joined on 1 may 2004. we must look positively at our citizens and say: it was a great success that we had estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia and of course malta and cyprus, because the rule of law, democracy and the social market economy have prevailed in these countries. and this is a contribution to stability for the whole of the european continent. we must also tell our people and not always focus on the criticisms and challenges. on this basis we have a lot of work to do to increase support for the european union. the parliament - and i think we can be a little proud of that, despite all the self-criticism we must always be able to make - has achieved a great deal in recent months: the great compromise on the services directive, then the adoption of the financial perspective, where we have achieved significant improvements. other measures are needed: with reach, the chemicals legislation, we have to be able to strike a balance between economics and ecology. we have spoken to mrs wallström today about this - and she has spoken on behalf of the whole commission, including the president of the commission - that the most important concern, apart from improving the political and psychological environment for the european union, is to leave no doubt that the vast majority of the european parliament wants the implementation of the constitutional treaty, because we need this constitution so that we have rules of the game for decisions in the european union and so that we have common values that unite us in the european union. the commission should take all this into account. mr president of the commission, i think it is a good thing that you have taken your decision today and that you are now explaining it to the european parliament. tomorrow you'll travel to romania and bulgaria. i wish you a good journey and i wish us all a good future together in europe. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i also welcome the fact that the president of the commission has come to us. his presence underscores the importance of the discussion. it underlines the importance of the debate because we are discussing a significant event. the decision we are going to have to take, the council is going to have to take, you are going to have to take, cannot be underestimated in its drama both internally and in relation to the two countries we are discussing. the socialist group, the socialists in the european parliament, stand by what we want and have expressed. unless there are major obstacles, the date of accession for bulgaria and romania is 1 january 2007. that was and remains our position, and i note that the president of the commission was very specific in his speech, that the commission considers that these two countries should be able to join the union on 1 january 2007. now you, mr rehn, and you, mr barroso, have chosen words which indicate that there are shortcomings. you have described these deficiencies superficially, you have not named them in detail. if you are going to sofia and bucharest after seven years, i would advise you to speak to the governments there more specifically about what you have said here. describe the deficiencies in detail. tell me exactly what you expect, where you want to be improved. because only then will the governments there have a chance to do what they have done so far, which is to work hard to ensure that all the criteria that are expected and demanded are met. this is an act of fairness, because as you yourself - both the president and the commissioner - have said, governments do a lot. the process of transformation which the countries are undergoing - and i agree with mr poettering - has been going on for a decade and a half and has demanded a great deal of the people. now, in the final phase, where the hopes of the people of bulgaria and romania should also play a role for us - who hope to join the union - it is important to be very precise. with what you, mr president of the commission, and you, mr rehn, have presented here, and what we can accept, you are taking on a great responsibility. i would also like to make this responsibility very specific. they will give the governments in sofia and bucharest criteria which still need to be met. you'll describe requirements, and you've given us the date of october. that means that in october you will have to tell the council and the european parliament very precisely whether things have been fulfilled or not in their view. if they are not, then, by the logic of your own reasoning, the decision must be different from what you expect today. you are taking on a great responsibility, and i want to put that responsibility in your book of records today. that is why this is a very serious and serious debate today. yes, romania and bulgaria are to become members of the european union. we as social democrats want accession to take place by 1 january 2007. we acknowledge that there is still room for improvement. we trust that the countries can make these adjustments so that this date can be respected. we expect you to be watching it closely. but let me add that it is not just about accession. it is not just the treaties on which accession is based. it is also about considering why this accession is so important in the historical context. these two countries, the black sea region, have made enormous progress. beyond what you rightly criticize, enormous stability has been developed, both in romania and in bulgaria. this stability is of great importance at the borders of the european union, because this region borders other regions which are our neighbouring regions, which are far from being as stable as we would like. that is why it is in our own interest, as members of the european union, to have economic, social, political and cultural stability in these countries. the more rapidly the criteria are met, the faster the accessibility is achieved, the better for all concerned, for the countries and for the european union. the socialists in the european parliament take note of what the commission is proposing. we think that is an acceptable course of action, although we advise you to be more precise in bucharest and sofia than you were today. we want these two countries to meet the criteria so that they can become members of our union on 1 january 2007. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. enlargement is the union's most successful policy, bringing a great deal of peace, stability, freedom and prosperity. but this can only work if it is done according to the rules, otherwise it will be loosened from within and the whole exercise will come to an end. i have to say, mr watson - who is no longer here - that my party has always been in favour of this enlargement and that my country, unlike the united kingdom, has not asked for a rebate to finance it. i would like to say that action such as the commission is now proposing is one way of ensuring that the treaty is fulfilled. if conditions laid down by contract in the accession treaties are not met, the application of these rules does not constitute discrimination against a country but the fulfilment of an agreement between the contracting parties; that's all it is. when i read that there are major problems in the area of corruption and organised crime, that there is also a high degree of differentiation between the two countries, and when i look closely at the commission's wording on this issue, which is that romania should continue its consolidation efforts, while in bulgaria first evidence of activities in this area must be produced, this is an important message and here we must act according to the motto 'everyone on their own merits'. secondly, we can only give european money if the structures in the countries are such that the funds can flow to the appropriate recipients in a credible manner. as long as both countries have not complied with this, we have a problem here. so there are a number of other examples that have been mentioned here, but always with a high degree of differentiation between the two countries. i would encourage the commission to really push the proposal hard, to have a re-examination by october and to give the countries a chance because of the clearly defined shortcomings they have. i hope that the countries will have the mentality to take this constructively so that a better report can be presented in october or else, as the treaty provides, the appropriate safeguard clause will be triggered. i would like to remind the commission of this and congratulate it on the report it has presented. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner rehn, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. bulgaria and romania will join the european union on 1 january 2007. there's no question about that. both countries have made progress in their reform efforts, but this work will continue. we all know that. mr cohn-bendit is right about that. but he spills the baby with the bath, and that's irresponsible. the commission is responsible. it's right not to write a blank check first. it is also right to develop a perspective to continue to accompany the reform processes, possibly also in the years after accession. in some areas, there are still some serious shortcomings; they've been mentioned here. we must ensure that the laws are not only passed but also applied. i am thinking in particular of the eu funds that are to be spent there. the commission's fair monitoring can help in this respect and should be accepted by both countries. pierre moscovici said that. it is something much less dramatic than a shift or something like that. enlargement policy will continue to be the focus of interest for eu citizens and future candidate countries. the eu must therefore pursue a consistent and credible enlargement policy. this enlargement has shown that we as a parliament must be careful in future to vote on enlargements in good time for accession and not a year and a half in advance. i want to make it clear once again that this is not the fault of the candidates for accession, but our own fault. it is also pointless to incorporate in the contract clauses which are in fact toothless, such as article 39. the commission cannot recommend postponing accession. what if their recommendation is not followed because of a few fewer votes in the council? the commission would then have been disapproved and there would be two countries at the council table, the majority of which had previously voted against their participation. no, you can't. so in the future, we're going to need better tools. the accession of bulgaria and romania is out of the question. both countries have done a lot, but we also have a lot to do to improve our enlargement policy. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. commissioner, this recommendation is wrong. the decision is being postponed. why not say frankly that the two countries do not meet the criteria? many things are only on paper, but the reality is different. it will be avenged that a wrong decision makes possible an early admission of the two countries. our visits to romania and bulgaria, and our talks with ngos, officials and government representatives from both countries in sofia just last week, have confirmed my view that, despite all the efforts made to join, the two countries are not yet ready for accession - not in 2007, not even in 2008! the keyword sofia has three examples: crime, corruption, kosloduj! 173 contract killings since 1990 none of them solved. corruption is pervasive in all sectors. the kosloduy nuclear power plant is dangerous and has not yet been shut down. i cannot, because of the short time available, deal with the problems of minorities, the roma, the conditions in prisons, homes for the elderly and the disabled and many other things. if we continue to pursue this wrong decision, it will have negative consequences both internally and externally. we are losing the last of our credibility with the citizens of the union. countries like croatia, which are making a great effort and which i believe are far ahead in many respects, are being blocked. the liberal group supports the liberal prime minister in romania, the socialist group supports the socialist prime minister in bulgaria. we don't have to hold on to this wrong decision. corrections must be possible. this self-deception is cowardly and dangerous!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission is proposing to set the date of accession at january 2007, subject to conditions which must be met by october. the commission is taking a convoluted course here. you can see her suffering under the weight of her own mistakes. we are looking forward to hearing from you in october how you will explain that the obstacles you have raised here today have been overcome. it was a capital mistake to set the deadline for 2007 at a time when it was completely open whether it could ever be met. the commission is now trying, with some desperation, to find its way out of this dead end. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. that's why i support him, despite all his weaknesses. a few remarks on romania, which i will limit to because i was there with a delegation of the cdu/csu. there, under the leadership of president basescu and prime minister popescu-tariceanu, a vigorous and serious reform process has begun, affecting both domestic politics and the judiciary and the fight against corruption. this is not all finished. the conditions are not yet fully met. the corruption cases are not yet legally closed, but they have been started in earnest and this takes time. i think it is important that this government be given a signal to press ahead with this reform-oriented path. this is important. romania is a country with a thoroughly european spirit. it will be a good ally in the european union. there is a german minority whose rights are satisfactorily regulated. the minority statute is an example for others to follow. so, commissioner, encourage the government to continue on its path of reform.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner rehn, you have a very unlyrical way of presenting your findings to the house. i would therefore like to express my gratitude to you without any lyrical content. thank you, and this without any garlands in which the relativisations are hidden. so, thank you, without the relativization. you've worked diligently, you've made the best of an unsatisfactory situation that's not primarily your fault. it would be difficult to question your findings and thus the basis of your conclusions from the factual point of view. i therefore advise those who may be tempted to feel offended by the present situation not to do so but to get down to work and complete the tasks still to be done. if, in the autumn, on the basis of your report, there are still deficits, the commission should propose safeguard clauses. parliament should then support the commission, each country being dealt with separately. but i also see this debate as an opportunity to draw further conclusions beyond the two countries in question . some colleagues have raised this point, and i want to make it quite clear once again: there must never again be any accession treaties without full compliance with the accession conditions. the list of 27 countries included in the nice catalogue is exhausted with bulgaria and romania. further accessions can only happen if the european union also does its homework and ensures its survival beyond 27 countries by means of the necessary internal reforms.
member of the commission. the same environmental sustainability standards should apply outside the union as well. as i said in my answer to the first question, we should look upon the issues in our trade negotiations. the development of biofuels should not be at the expense of the rainforests. it must also be done in a sustainable way. i believe that we have all the means to follow that path. on the car industry’s obligation to make more efficient engines and more efficient cars, we will follow that path as well. it does not replace the other path, however: they are two separate tracks going in the same direction – security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability. but on the matter of improved standards for cars, the answer is the use of biofuels. only both combined can give the necessary result.
member of the commission. we recently adopted the biomass action plan and a communication on biofuels. both these documents have been discussed in the council and there is definitely a need for member states to pursue a more proactive policy to bring biofuels onto the market. the commission encourages this as far as it can, but many measures could be introduced by member states themselves. it is not for the commission to ensure that there are enough petrol stations stocking biofuels. for example, i wish there were more of them in brussels.
member of the commission. i think that at the moment nothing needs to be done to achieve our objectives in the engine industry because the admixture is permissible and technically possible in small quantities. in future, we will need more flexibility. the auto industry will follow our political trend. the most important thing at the moment is to show that the european union is really ready to do this. in reality, very little technical change is needed to increase the use of biofuels. the main objective should be to bring biofuels to market in as many member states as possible, which is not yet the case everywhere. this is already the case in some countries. the commission is therefore making every effort to encourage those states which have not yet done enough to achieve their own objectives.
member of the commission. i think this will be rather a long answer because it cannot be answered in just a few sentences. i would like to start by saying that today russia plays a very important role in securing europe’s energy supplies. currently russia provides almost 30% of the eu’s oil imports and 45% of our gas imports. or, to be more exact, 25% of our consumed gas. as a result, russia is the largest single external energy supplier. a considerable amount of our iranian imports are also provided by russia, so the eu and russian markets for crude oil and oil products, as well as natural gas, are tightly interlinked with numerous pipelines, maritime and rail links and numerous contracts that our companies have concluded with russian suppliers. a broad relationship and energy dialogue was established between russia and the commission in 2000. moreover, the common economic space agreed during the eu-russia summit in may 2005 includes cooperation in a wide range of energy-related activities. so the energy dialogue aims to discuss issues related to energy policy and market developments, infrastructure developments, and eu-russia cooperation in multilateral energy fora. i believe that russia will remain an important supplier for the eu in the future. taking into account the expected growth of energy consumption in the eu, i expect russia to continue to supply around 25% of the gas consumed in the eu which, in absolute terms, would mean an increase in supplies. the european union and many countries worldwide are becoming ever more dependent on imported hydrocarbons. i would like to reiterate that in the long term there are only three countries that have a lot of natural gas resources: russia, iran and qatar. at the same time, the eu will import 70% of its energy in 2030, compared with 50% today. over time, the remaining fossil fuel resources will become more concentrated, as i said, in a rather small number of countries. as a consequence, energy interdependence is becoming a global issue, with major shared concerns, such as increased demand for limited resources in the world, the lack of investment in new production and the climate change issues. therefore, a broad range of actions at eu and member-state level are required to address these challenges. it has been highlighted in the green paper. i have just highlighted one of the actions in my answer to the honourable member’s previous question about biofuels. that is one of the actions that we indicate. the green paper emphasised opportunities, such as policies to improve first of all energy efficiency and energy savings, as well as enhancing the market penetration of renewable energy sources. it also highlighted external policy options, such as strengthening the framework for energy relations between the eu and russia in order to give more confidence to both sides, as well as policies and measures to diversification of the geographical sources and transportation routes of external energy supplies to the eu. in this context, it is important to underline that the eu is making continuous efforts to improve energy relations with other energy-producing organisations – such as opec, the gulf cooperation council, the countries of the caspian basin and north africa – as well as with the consuming regions in the framework of the international energy forum, the international energy agency, g8 and through bilateral agreements and dialogues. this policy of diversification is not directed against our current suppliers: it is a necessity dictated by the global energy security challenges and by the challenge posed by global warming and other environment-related issues. together with the austrian presidency of the european union, i recently sent a letter to the russian energy minister, mr khristenko, on the issue of energy cooperation and in particular gas interdependency. in this letter we reiterated the importance the eu attributes to deepening energy relations with russia, the eu’s most important energy supplier. furthermore, we stressed that the importance the eu attaches to diversifying sources of supply should not be interpreted as limiting deliveries of russian gas to the eu market, particularly as demand for gas in europe is forecast to rise. in this relationship with russia, the eu is promoting such principles as market reciprocity, fair transit conditions through russia and third-party access to infrastructure in russia. therefore, the short answer to the questions that have been asked is that we are looking for diversification, but it is extremely important to establish measures on the demand side, because only with demand-side measures, energy efficiency and savings can we actually establish our energy independence more strongly and, at the same time, look towards our goals of sustainability and competitiveness.
i'm not going to tell you. i believe that the politicization of gazprom by president putin is just as dangerous as the politicization of opec by some gulf states 30 years ago. that is why energy independence is very important. could we not therefore give greater priority to the promotion of heating materials produced from renewable raw materials, i.e. biomass, elephant grass and also cereals? europe could provide for itself here.
member of the commission. the first question was about gas transport from central asia to europe. there are two paths that we are following. one is definitely related to the energy charter and transit protocols under which such rights could be enjoyed. as for the other, i recently visited kazakhstan to find out about the building of a trans-caspian pipeline that can independently bring gas towards the european union, bypassing the russian gas transit system. as regards transparency and relations, at this stage there is some reciprocity. in the eu gazprom is treated as a company that has a complete pipeline monopoly in production and transport. so it is clear that whenever a situation in the internal market is evaluated, then it is evaluated on all aspects. we are looking for more transparency and more mutual understanding. in october this year, we will have a conference on energy policies. it is also fairer to the russian side also to ask questions as to what europe’s views are and how far europe is going in creating a common energy policy. it is also clear that they do not always have all the information and understanding as to what our goals are. our goals are fair trade in these resources and fair markets. that, from my point of view, is beneficial not only for us, but also for russia. that is how i see that the best results could be achieved.
the next item is the report by mrs dagmar roth-behrendt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (com (2004) 0775) c6-0223/2004 2004/0270b (cod)) (a6-0161/2006).
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking the european parliament, the committee on agriculture, the committee on the environment and in particular the rapporteur, mrs roth-behrendt, and mr schnellhardt, the second rapporteur, for the intensive work done by the commission on this dossier. i would remind you that last year the commission adopted the tse roadmap. it was essentially a reflection paper for future adjustments in the short, medium and long term and also provided the basis for detailed discussion of individual issues with the member states. i would like to repeat a key point here: our overall policy on consumer protection and the eradication of bse will remain unchanged. in view of this, the commission is very satisfied with the work done so far and with the compromise proposal which is now being discussed and voted on. this proposal provides a sound legal framework enabling the commission to continue to act on the basis of new scientific knowledge, while maintaining or raising the level of protection of human and animal health in the european union where scientifically justified. the compromise proposal is therefore acceptable to the commission. the proposal also brings european law into line with the international rules for classifying countries according to their bse risk.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is not prepared to accept this. the rapporteur, mrs dagmar roth-behrendt, asked me to present her report today because she has to look after the infirmary. we hope she'll be back with us soon. the tse directive basically consists of two areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the transitional periods. in order to be able to discuss the content of the report at greater length and in greater detail, it was proposed that the report be shared, which we did in agreement with the commission. in mid-2005, we decided at first reading to extend the transitional rules, so that we had enough time for the second part, which we are discussing today, and we also discussed it in many working groups and round tables, including with the european veterinary profession and our colleagues in parliament. as commissioner verheugen has already indicated, we are also determined not to weaken the directive and to make a big deal out of health policy. this has been done very well under the leadership of dagmar roth-behrendt. it has asked the commission to draw up a kind of road map which, although not formally discussed in this house, is at least a guide to how we deal with the difficult issue of bse and tse in the future. this is a very welcome initiative. let me tell you something about the content: so far, we've had five risk groups. that was good, that was right, that was helpful. but we found and we were convinced that in terms of compatibility with global activities - including the animal health policy committee in paris - it was better to go down to three factors, which after a long discussion was easier for us. we have had to realise that many third countries have relatively little knowledge of this animal disease and that the european union, but also the oie in paris, can obtain much better comparable data thanks to this new classification. that was the compromise on which the rapporteur - and i very much support her - accepted this proposal. it is ultimately a factor of consumer protection and also a factor for farmers, because now these issues can be better coordinated and controlled worldwide in the third world. it is again clearly stated that bse control is an important component. it's still being tested on healthy, conspicuous, and altered animals. but if monitoring shows that there is a long-term positive development in certain areas, then there may also be some scientifically justified relaxations. one point of contention i would like to touch on is the question of fishmeal. as a farmer, i am convinced that fishmeal does not belong in the trough of ruminants. but in some european countries, that is clearly not the case. i have to respect that. parliament has already said a clear no in 2004. the rapporteur, with the support of many experts, has taken up this issue again and made it clear that this fact - that herbivores should not be given fishmeal - is included in this report. as an exception - this is part of the compromise - feeding should be possible up to a certain age. i think we can agree to that compromise. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. anyone who's ever seen this will never eat it again. the commission itself has said that it will work on this and make us an appropriate proposal on how to deal with this problem. the minimum list of special risk materials is a major concern of the rapporteur, dagmar roth-behrendt. this is not a list of the annexes as it used to be, but a real list of, say, the brain and spinal cord. a good and proper contribution. an equally good contribution is the question of how cohort animals are currently treated. they're siblings of animals that are sick. in the past, these animals were all slaughtered in the most brutal way. today, they've found a good way to keep the animals alive. of course, they must not be used for their own consumption. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the other people involved. you did a great job. and i'm very glad that dagmar had the opportunity to accompany us through this difficult territory, and i hope she'll be back soon.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already done so. the european parliament, and especially the rapporteur, mrs roth-behrendt, have shown a great deal of commitment in dealing with the bse crisis, they have played a good role, they have also been able to guide the commission along the right path with the various instruments such as the committee of inquiry and the vote of no confidence on probation. we are glad that we are no longer dealing with the beginning or the peak of the crisis, but with its flattening out. this crisis was a man-made disaster, so we will eliminate the causes also find a way out of this crisis. the committee on agriculture actually thinks that we should take the risk of entering the exit. so, at the end of this development, again, non-vegetarian animals can be fed high-quality animal protein if it comes from animals that have been cleared for human consumption. what concerns us about this withdrawal is that the commission is now very much involved in the comitology procedure and is taking the decisions. we believe that the european parliament should be involved. we are somewhat concerned that the commission, by taking this up in the administrative and regulatory procedure, is leaving the european parliament out of the picture. we have therefore made sure that consumer and environmental protection issues play a major role by tightening up the decisions on principles. in the final analysis, we believe that the european parliament, like the council, must have the right to veto the issue of co-decision in the comitology procedure when decisions are taken in the annexes which should be taken in the european parliament's co-decision procedure.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. i feel i must take a moment to convey my best wishes to mrs dagmar roth-behrendt and to wish her a full recovery. the present report on the amendment of the regulation on the control of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies has been extremely successful in many respects in the view of my group. we have had to make very quick and very sharp decisions on many things in the hectic times of the bse crisis, and scientific progress has now advanced. that is why we can now speak of a good proposal. where do i see the benefits? firstly, the comitology has been limited to what is necessary. mr graefe zu baringdorf, the original proposal was much more comitology-friendly! this creates clarity and reliability in the implementation. secondly, the introduction of three risk categories simplifies risk assessment without compromising safety. this brings into force throughout the eu an internationally agreed programme of bse-tse control measures based on proposals from the international office for animal diseases. the results of the risk assessment in all countries are comparable. this will also make it easier to export and import. thirdly, the age at which animals must be tested for bse is now the same throughout the eu, as the scheme has been laid down in the articles. for food-producing animals, the standard is 30 months. we know that many countries have made very different arrangements. the new system will make the statistics of the member states comparable and will give a much better picture of the situation. fourthly, i also welcome the fact that the general slaughtering of the herd in the event of bse is being abolished. this is scientifically justified and should be done in this way. fifthly, the introduction of tolerance thresholds for animal proteins in plant-based feedingstuffs, which - i stress this - are present accidentally and inevitably, is in line with reality and will eliminate problems in the sectors concerned without jeopardizing safety. i expect the commission and the council to agree to the agreed value of 0.5%. i think this value is just as acceptable, although it is to be expected that in this measurement range the tolerance limits will be very different and the tolerances will be very high. sixthly, the scientific prohibition on the use of animal proteins in feedingstuffs for cattle remains in force. i very much welcome the fact that we have agreed to a regulation allowing some fishmeal to be used for young cattle. well, it's a compromise, you know. i'd rather see it separate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but this is a welcome development. i would also like to mention and remind the commission that it has promised to take part in the revision of regulation 1774/2002 to regulate the issue of the feeding of kitchen and catering waste. i think that is very important and i would like to stress that again. in this context, i think we can easily approve this proposal by a large majority.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am very positive that we will reach an agreement here at first reading. the consumer protection is excellent. we fully support the tightening of the rules called for by the rapporteur. we consider the arrangements envisaged by parliament, namely tse checks on bovine animals slaughtered for own consumption over 30 months and on all bovine animals slaughtered for consumption or slaughtered in emergency over 24 months, to be adequate and correct. this measure alone saves the small state of schleswig-holstein between four and five million euros per year, without endangering consumer safety. the adaptation to the three risk categories of the international veterinary office is also logical and necessary. the definition of active and passive surveillance classes is intended to ensure the quality of epidemiological surveillance. the limited ban on feeding animal proteins to ruminants is right, but not entirely sufficient. nature has not provided for ruminants to consume animal proteins, except for calves in the form of breast milk. the argument that purified proteins from fishmeal are nothing else is certainly scientifically sound, but in my view not correct. i think that the feeding of fishmeal is ethically problematic and undesirable. the prohibition on the marketing of animals from third countries is safely taken into account, with time limits of up to eight years in case of doubt. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's food safety is not compromised by the presence of animal proteins in foodstuffs. zero tolerance in my country has meant that tens of thousands of tonnes of sugar beet, which were found to contain animal protein on delivery, had to be destroyed. the protein mixtures now tolerated up to 0.5% are mainly from small animals which have died during harvesting or long before on agricultural land and are certainly free of tse. here the new frontier is a real step towards sensible legislation. i agree with the proposal, but i cannot help but make a small comment in conclusion, namely that for parliament life would certainly be better and more democratic without comitology or with less comitology.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. ten years after the bse outbreak, the prevention, control and eradication of certain spongiform encephalopathies is still necessary and under discussion. the regulation we are dealing with today is designed to bring eu law into line with international standards and the standards of the international veterinary office. all precautions are important. food safety and consumer protection are equally important. but it is equally important to look at things from a perspective. wherever possible, action should be based on scientific knowledge alone. as the epp shadow rapporteur on the committee on agriculture, i agree with the results and compromises so far. i would like to thank all the colleagues on the environment committee for the good cooperation and the factual approach to this important subject. the commission has succeeded in introducing pragmatic simplifications which reduce bureaucracy. three aspects are important. first, we really want three risk categories instead of five. this will enable a nationally coordinated response to bse. we'll have more security overall. this includes the specific list of risk material. secondly, animal proteins - and i am sure we can agree on this - should not be fed to ruminants in future. but the fact that young calves - and we are talking about very young calves - may be fed partly with fishmeal under appropriate controls is a correct option. young calves do not yet have a developed ruminant stomach. you need animal protein. the third point: the accidental entry of animal protein - that could be a mouse, a bird, a small animal or a bone in the field - should really be possible up to the tolerance limit of 0.5%. 0% tolerance is a rare thing in this world. the committee on agriculture considers that one of the main points is that the comitology powers are much more restrictive in the ec regulation. parliament, together with the bse committee, was instrumental in shaping the risk management legislation that originally drafted the regulation. since then, a large number of amendments have been made by way of the comitology procedure, without parliament's involvement. this does not seem very democratic and often makes it difficult to live together and to accept each other. let's start with the measurement and responsibility of the entry into the exit. i would like to thank mrs roth-behrendt in particular for her good work. i wish her well and i wish her well and i hope for us that she will soon be back with us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. better regulation a catchphrase that we don't even need to translate anymore! it is important that laws, regulations and directives are constantly reviewed and it is right that changes are made to this text of law as necessary and possible in the light of new findings. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 999/2001 with rules on the prevention, control and eradication of certain tses. i thank the rapporteur, mrs roth-behrendt, for her report, which, with a great deal of knowledge of practical needs and possibilities, makes improvements which we hope the council and commission will follow our proposals. when we launched this regulation in 2001 in the wake of recent events out of internal uncertainty and without sufficient scientific knowledge, it was a good and pioneering measure, and we see that at least the sensitivity in the treatment of animals, animal husbandry and feeding is different today, if not better. we support an internationally agreed system of bse and tse measures at oie level. this will also provide more information from countries which, unfortunately, do not have data yet. konrad adenauer once said: "it is not forbidden to become smarter". we now know a great deal more about research because of the increased efforts. but we also see ourselves confirmed in our old knowledge of nature. our measurement methods are now so sophisticated that we can detect the sugar cube in lake constance. zero tolerance can be measured, but it brings with it inherent problems - which have just been presented in various ways - because zero tolerance does not actually exist in nature. we therefore need a tolerance limit for natural contamination with animal protein in feedingstuffs, a practical limit which we would like to set at 0.5%. i think this is a compromise which can be supported by all, and i therefore ask for the support of the council and the commission for amendment no 57. i would like to conclude by reminding the commission that there is a gap in the area of food waste recycling. commissioner, the time limits are running out. we are awaiting a proposal from the commission. we are waiting for this proposal with great interest, with the aim of optimally and safely using, recycling and using these 'not waste' but recyclable materials which, if properly treated, can also be used properly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by mrs zita pleštinská, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the financing of european standardisation (com (2005) 0377 c6-0252/2005 2005/0157 cod)) (a6-0107/2006).
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking the european parliament and in particular the rapporteur, mrs pleštinská, the members of the committee on the internal market and mrs herzog for the rapid consultation and the well-founded report. the adoption of this proposal will provide the european legislator with a new and solid legal basis for the financing of european standardisation. european standardisation has played a prominent role in supporting european policies for more than 20 years. european standardization has thus made a major contribution to the completion of the internal market. under the new approach, standardisation complements european legislation and contributes to technical harmonisation, so that goods can be traded within the european union without restrictions. more than 20 directives have been adopted to follow this approach. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. standardization is also an important tool for achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy. in the light of good experience with standards in the context of internal market legislation, it is intended that the concept of reference to voluntary standards should be extended to other areas of law in the context of better law-making. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental legislation is properly implemented. in addition, standardization can also play an important role in strengthening the competitiveness of european industry. standardization allows the interoperability of different techniques. it paves the way for the introduction of new technologies and encourages innovation. at present, european standardization is financed by the commission on the basis of legislation dating back to the 1980s. in view of the development of budgetary law, it is urgent to establish a modern legal basis for the financing of standardisation. the budget for financing european standardisation must be approved annually in the budgetary procedure. the current amount is 19 million euros. beneficiaries of community funding are the european standards organisations cen, cenelec and etsi, listed in annex i to directive 98/34/ec of the european parliament and of the council on a common information procedure in the field of technical standards and regulations. in special circumstances, support may also be given to activities of other bodies which need to be carried out in support of european standardisation. during the discussions, several parties called for the appropriate integration of all the interests involved, such as those of consumers, environmental protection and small and medium-sized enterprises, in european standardisation. the commission shares this view and is working to improve the present situation. however, it is not the task of this decision to ensure the financing of the various interests involved. i would like to point out in this context that the participation of experts, for example from the field of small and mediumsized enterprises, is encouraged under our sme programme. the same applies to the integration of consumer protection, environmental protection and occupational safety interests. it is also the responsibility of the member states to ensure appropriate participation of the interests concerned. the commission expressly welcomes the amendments which have been drawn up in the course of the debate between parliament and the council. the commission can accept all parliament's amendments. i would like to thank you and the rapporteur once again for the efforts made to reach an agreement at the first reading.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. since the mid-1980s, european standardization has enabled the free movement of industrial products within the european community and a high level of protection for consumers and workers. european standardisation complements key objectives of european policy by creating a consensus among economic operators. it has now successfully established itself in some 20 industrial sectors. this has made it much easier to compare and make products and services compatible in the internal market. the commission's financial support and continuing development of european standardization therefore deserves our approval. the catalogue of the three european standards bodies, cen, cenelec and etsi, now contains more than 15 000 standards and other european specifications. in many cases, this standardization activity has made detailed community legislation in the areas concerned superfluous and in some cases even completely unnecessary. standardization should therefore be seen as an integral part of the ongoing efforts to improve legislation and thus in the context of policies for more growth and jobs. beyond the single market aspect, european standardisation can support a whole range of community policies which can increase the competitiveness of european enterprises. this applies in particular to the areas of trade policy, transport, the environment and the security of travel documents. in the field of research and technological development, there must be clear common standards as a source of technical knowledge and as a market instrument. the commission has already taken the initiative in this area, and i am sure that the commission will take it up again in the near future. despite this positive record, european standardization and its institutional framework need to be improved and strengthened. the provisions of the new financial regulation require the creation of a clear, complete and detailed legal basis for european standardisation. the compromise proposal is in my view able to meet these requirements. i would like to thank all the parties involved for their constructive cooperation, in particular the rapporteur, mrs pleštinská. i shall recommend to my group that it support the compromise reached and i am confident that an agreement will be reached here at first reading. i am also of the opinion that we should not have this debate in strasbourg but in brussels.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the time has already passed, and the members have already said a lot of the right things. i would therefore like to begin by expressing my gratitude to the rapporteur and congratulating her on her difficult work. as deputy coordinator, i think that was an important step. the vote we are taking tomorrow is the result of an informal trilogue which is intended to bring the issue of financing standardization in europe to a successful conclusion at first reading. i believe that it is a proper compromise which the rapporteur has been able to reach here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we see in many places that the economy, which is the main beneficiary of the harmonization of the internal market in the european union, is participating in these arrangements and, quite undeniably, is in dire need of them. we must therefore, as members of parliament, support this process in a positive way. but we also see that many citizens - and many mayors and other economic actors - do not perceive these regulations as they are intended. there are regulations, such as a standard for the prevention of crime in building plans, which i think mayors are not entirely wrong to find themselves in. i therefore initially welcomed the rapporteur's proposal to align the costs of standardization much more closely with the actual costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i believe, however, that it is up to us members to ensure that, where it is directed at the citizen, standardization is indeed also legitimated by parliament, and where it only affects economic operators, it can certainly also be achieved through self-administration. i hope that we will make progress on these issues as part of the internal market strategy, which will involve not only the commission but also parliament in the coming months.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank you very much for the very constructive spirit which has characterized this debate and for the consensus which has emerged here. this is very important because technical standardization is something which is often, surprisingly, completely ignored in the public consciousness of european citizens. we have all seen the use of certain standards in public policy debate as bizarre examples of what is known as european over-regulation. it has been very well said tonight that our citizens would be very surprised if this instrument did not exist, because our daily lives and most sectors of the economy would not function at all without it. it is a very modern instrument, it is a very flexible instrument and preferable from a legal point of view, because in fact - and i am referring to a statement by the rapporteur of the committee on budgets, with whom i do not agree - the question is whether we always have to resort to the strongest protection of legislation if we want to regulate something, namely the law, or whether we do not take much more account of our own society's claim to freedom if we leave the responsibility for technical standards and technical standards to those who need them and merely make the political statement that regulation is necessary. i would like to reiterate my political intention to you this evening, namely that i would like to use the experience gained over the last 20 years with the new approach to extend this modern instrument of european legislation to other areas of the internal market and to other policies. (applause from the centre)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by mrs pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the recommendation from the council (c6-0071/2006 2006/0801 ((cns)) for a member of the executive board of the european central bank (a6-0136/2006).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. in the candidate, mr stark, vice-president of the bundesbank, we have a convincing candidate for the presidency of the european central bank. he was already involved in creating the framework conditions for the euro as state secretary in the ministry of finance and is, in effect, one of the fathers of the euro. and what emerged from the hearing, and what was very positive, is that he is a committed european. that is what we should be saying here. it stands for continuity in the european central bank, it stands for the objectives of independence, which is important at a time when there are increasing attempts to subject the european central bank to external constraints. it stands for low inflation, for a stable currency, for the stability and growth pact, which is of great importance, especially now that saving is not easy for the member states. in the face of the euro, continuity is of the utmost importance. and because i am addressing the enlargement of the euro, commissioner almunia, i would like to congratulate you on your decision today from the point of view of the european people's party. we find them very positive in this context. the role of parliament was also discussed. i also wish that we would strengthen parliament. i would also point out that mr stark has explicitly said that the role of parliament is very important to him. i hope that he will intervene in the ecb's bureau in the future when, as recently, the external expert group cesr on clearing and settlement is appointed. we shall see whether he really gives parliament the highest priority. just the edge. but what must not play a role in parliament in the future is the examination of attitudes. that is why we should think carefully about how we do it in the future. what we need are candidates with a good profile, with the relevant experience that mr. stark has. it can't be about who fits into my political picture and who doesn't. that is not the role of parliament, and i would not go along with it. i support the objective that there should be no heirs to the states in the european central bank. however, we must ensure that the large and small economies are represented in a balanced way in the ecb's presidency. in conclusion, i wish mr stark every success in his new role, which i hope he will take on, for the euro, for europe and for an effective and relevant portfolio in the governing council.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. the liberal group welcomes the proposal to appoint professor jürgen stark as a member of the executive board of the european central bank. the report by mrs berès clearly expresses this positive assessment and is therefore supported by our group. mr stark has given a convincing written reply to the questionnaire of the economic and monetary committee. in his hearing in the committee on 18 april, he again proved that he is an excellent candidate for membership of the executive board of the european central bank. he is convincing not only because of his personal integrity but also because of his wide-ranging experience and competence, especially in matters of monetary policy. it has been instrumental in shaping the process of monetary union from 1988 until the introduction of euro cash in 2002. he is therefore one of the architects of the stability and growth pact and has consistently and clearly spoken out against its relaxation. we liberals welcome the fact that mr stark is a strong advocate of the independence of the european central bank and that price stability is a top priority. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. mr stark also assured us of his readiness to open a dialogue with the european parliament. we, the members of the economic affairs committee, will take him up on that. in conclusion, i would like to make a few critical remarks which relate exclusively to the procedure and have nothing to do with the quality and personality of mr jürgen stark. all my predecessors have already pointed out, but i think this point is important enough to underline it again: the nomination is not the result of a competitive process in which several candidates present themselves, but the result of political deliberations by the council. in addition, it seems that the large euro countries consider the executive board of the european central bank to be a hereditary court and exclude representatives of other member states from the outset. the president of the economic committee, mrs pervenche berès, has proposed improvements to the procedure in a letter to the austrian presidency of the council, as she has just explained. the alde group expressly supports this proposal!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by mr rosati, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on public finances in economic and monetary union (2005/2166 (ini)) (a6-0162/2006).
member of the commission. madam president, first of all i would like to thank mr rosati for his excellent report and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for taking the initiative to reflect on the state of public finances in economic and monetary union, enriching the much-needed debate on how to conduct economic policy and, in particular, budgetary policies, with the common objective of all of us to boost economic growth and promote job creation. i must begin my brief remarks with two comments which separate my view from the statements in mr rosati's report, probably because time has passed, and it has passed in a positive way, since since the commission's report on public finances was drawn up last year, the figures of which form the basis of mr rosati's report, until now we have received information, both on economic growth and on the situation of public budgets or deficits in the countries of the european union, which improves the picture. i would like to refer briefly to that. on 8 may i had the opportunity to present the commission's spring economic forecasts and in doing so i was able to state publicly that, in our view, based on the analysis of the commission services, growth in 2006 in the euro area and in the european union as a whole will be around our potential growth: it will exceed 2% in the euro area, in particular it will reach 2,1% compared with 1,3% in 2005, and in the european union as a whole it will be 2,3% which is also clearly above the growth recorded in 2005. we are therefore entering a phase of recovery that is much more pronounced than we could have foreseen when the commission presented the 2005 report on public finances, which is in itself a positive development, although i would be quick to say that it is not enough, because growing at the rate of our current growth potential is not enough to meet all the demands of citizens and, in the first place, to create enough jobs to achieve a sustained and clear reduction in unemployment, which is still above 8%. we must increase our growth potential - and i agree with the views expressed in mr rosati's report - we must persevere on the path set out in the review of the lisbon strategy, we must continue to implement the national reform plans within the framework of that strategy, we must continue to reform the product, service and labour markets, we must correct where budgetary imbalances persist, we must make our public finances more sustainable, of course, we must improve the quality of public spending and, in particular, we must make a greater effort in all policies aimed at the qualification of human resources, research and development, innovation and, in general, education. the second comment i wanted to make concerns the particular subject of public deficits. the report points to a worsening of the situation in 2005 and attributes this to a misapplication of the stability and growth pact. the end-of-year 2005 figures contradict this claim; the government deficit in 2005, both in the euro area and in the european union as a whole, has been much lower than we estimated a few months ago: it has been 2.3 per cent in the european union as a whole and 2.4 per cent in the euro area, thus several tenths of what we had forecast when the commission published its 2005 public finance report. our forecasts for 2006 and 2007 are that this situation will continue and, if additional measures are taken by the states, will clearly improve. i believe that we cannot speak, in my view, of a misapplication of the new stability and growth pact, but rather of the success of the implementation of the new stability and growth pact in correcting excessive deficits: there were seven countries in an excessive deficit, with an excess of 3%, at the end of 2005, compared with 12 countries in an excessive deficit under the current procedures, which will probably be withdrawn from the procedure once these improvements in government deficits are confirmed. and in the stability and convergence programmes, adopted for the first time in accordance with the guidelines and parameters of the new pact, there is a qualitatively clear improvement in the medium-term budgetary strategies of the member states, with greater attention to sustainability and greater effort to improve the quality of public finances and to link budgetary and fiscal policies with the growth strategies included in the lisbon strategy and in the national growth plans. in all other respects, apart from these two comments, there is a great deal of convergence between the proposals and statements in mr rosati's report and the commission's views and criteria. we agree on the need to avoid pro-cyclical policies, on the need to reorient public spending towards greater accumulation of physical, human and technological capital, on the need to make a greater effort to standardise budgetary procedures in the member states and in particular in the euro area; we obviously agree to put emphasis on how to meet the challenge of demographic ageing. and i believe that we have - and i agree with the report's view - a unique opportunity, now that the economic recovery is beginning, now that we have defined the lisbon strategy, now that the 25 member states have defined their priorities for structural reforms geared to growth and employment, to end an era of low growth, economic pessimism and lack of confidence among economic actors. we have a unique opportunity to use the institutions and the european dimension to serve the demands and aspirations of citizens.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr rosati, for his efforts to produce a report which is consistent with all the shadow rapporteurs and others. we have approved this concept in the economic committee by a large majority - i would say almost unanimously. the epp group has also agreed to this, of course. we will of course be critical in our assessment of the amendments tabled, and i am therefore very grateful that the commissioner has also expressed his criticism of two or three of the points contained in these amendments. sound public finances are the most important thing in the whole of the economic and monetary union and beyond. only sound public financing can help europe's economic recovery in the long term. unfortunately, this idea is not popular with all european governments. the political will to reform the public finances is often lacking. the criteria laid down in the stability and growth pact must be clearly respected. there should be no repeated attempts to circumvent or undermine these stability criteria. we called them 'stability criteria' in 1997 - and some of us did call them that - because they give stability to the financial area and the economy in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the high budget deficits have a negative impact on the economic cycle. we just heard there's been some activity here. the increase in deficits is only a continuation of this spiral and must be stopped. of course we must increase our spending on the right things, on innovation and on future development. this does not change the fact that they are still expenditure which must be included in the general accounts. in this context, i welcome the independence of the european central bank - as has been made clear elsewhere today - in its interest rate policy, which must continue to pursue price stability as its primary objective. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. a long-term policy of balanced public finances is needed in the present euro area countries and as a prerequisite for all future euro area accessions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the stability and growth pact and the monetary policy of the european central bank provide a reliable and sufficient framework which we need only to respect.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you very much for allowing me to speak again this evening. the debate is drawing to a close. the report by mr rosati on public finances in economic and monetary union is, in my view, a very important report because it rightly draws the public's attention to the fact that in the present situation the member states are responsible for the finances of the european union and also for the debt that is associated with them for future generations. the rapporteur's appeal is rightly directed to the member states. however, in my view, it goes beyond the mark in some areas. i would like to expressly endorse the rapporteur for the epp group, mr hoppenstedt. i would like to make one further point. in 2007, the german household deficit will be below 3%, thus meeting the criteria of the stability pact. commissioner almunia, you yourself have put it in the appropriate terms. the german economic development will thus give a new impetus to the whole of the european union - at least i hope so. the troubled children are known. we therefore need greater coordination of economic policies, but above all by the member states, so that individual countries cannot increase the costs of the whole economic area. i would like to refer again to the report by mr garcía-margallo y marfil, who in the last plenary session gave an account of the state of the european economy, with the european parliament's aim of developing a smart growth strategy for europe. i believe that we are not far enough along this road and that there is still a lot to be done. although the price of oil has risen, we still have a stable inflationary trend and consumption in the european union is also at a level that can be described as quite acceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community, and it is therefore not necessary to paint it black, but there is a need for action, particularly in terms of improving the economic climate and further integrating the internal market. i hope that mr rosati's report will also point the commission in the right direction.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank all the members who have spoken in this debate, referring to initiatives or positions of the commission. i think there is a fairly broad degree of agreement and consensus on the diagnosis and on the main guidelines on what the response should be from the european institutions to ensure that public finances, good fiscal and budgetary policies, help to achieve more growth, more employment and more satisfaction of the demands of the citizens in europe. in fact, there has been a significant improvement in confidence and optimism among european economic operators and consumers in recent months. all the indicators bear witness to that. we are now in the process of trying to translate that confidence and optimism into concrete data on the evolution of the economic situation, of more consumption, more employment and more economic growth. i think that, in part, it is being achieved, which does not mean that the road is easy. there is, of course, a problem - and i agree with those who have pointed this out - of low potential growth in the european economy. the european economy, on its own, without further reforms, is not capable of growing beyond the figures we are estimating for 2006, i.e. slightly above 2%. there is evidence of extraordinarily dynamic competitors, both in other industrialized countries and in emerging countries; there is a risk - which some of the honourable members have mentioned - arising from the evolution of energy prices; there are global imbalances in other important areas of the world economy which may affect this phase of growth. and when we come to the answer to the question of what to do in this situation, we have a relatively strong degree of consensus: good fiscal and budgetary policies, which are not procyclical, which are countercyclical, which improve the quality of income and expenditure, which contribute better to growth and to the qualification of human resources; better functioning of the internal market; use of our enormous potential as a market of 450 million consumers; and - we all mentioned this - the need for better coordination. as a witness to the monthly functioning of the eurogroup and the ecofin, i cannot but agree with all the honourable members when they ask the council, and the eurogroup in particular, for more coordination, but i can also convey to them the will of the council and the eurogroup to improve that coordination and to improve the involvement of all sectors and all institutions - and of course this parliament - in the dialogue necessary for that coordination to be appropriate to the objectives and priorities and to be effective. i think we are facing a very good opportunity at that turning point, to which mr sánchez presedo referred a few minutes ago. we cannot pass up this opportunity, nor can we fail to learn from the mistakes that european economies and the euro area made in the previous period of economic recovery, by failing to use good periods of economic growth to consolidate public accounts to improve their sustainability and to use the dynamism of economies in the service of more and better jobs, which is what the citizens are asking us to do.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m. the written declaration (article 142)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. after difficult negotiations, we are presenting to you today the text of an interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. i would like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to this outcome on behalf of parliament, in particular the negotiating team, which includes janusz lewandowski, ralf walter and jan mulder. i would like to express my gratitude to the coordinators and staff of the political groups and in particular to the staff of the secretariat, who have really done an excellent job in the past few months. this togetherness, despite all the contradictions, has been and is the strength of parliament, because we are committed to european added value and not to a one-sided debate on the net and the return of funds. the title of this agreement is also the programme. the commission, council and parliament commit themselves to the framework conditions for the annual budgetary procedure and the multiannual financial planning until 2013. they undertake to improve the current agreement and to make changes to the council decision of december 2005. this means that we now have more flexibility in budgetary procedures. we could respond better and faster to political, humanitarian and economic emergencies. we have introduced reform of budgetary law, simplification of the financial regulation, certification of eu programmes and reporting obligations by member states, more reliable financial planning and clear agreements on the creation of new agencies. the commission, council and parliament also undertake to modernise financial instruments by integrating the european investment bank's loan facilities. this is important for research, for innovation in smes and for transeuropean networks and represents a strong impetus for investment. the basis for the agreement in the council in december was also the distribution - i must say this - of special discounts and christmas presents. we have, however, in the negotiations, secured additional funding for programmes with real european added value: lifelong learning, transeuropean networks, research, social policy, innovation for smes, crossborder cooperation for natura 2000, life+, health and consumer policy, culture, youth and the media. we have also made important improvements in foreign and security policy and in neighbourhood policy. this is a small sum in comparison with the overall financial planning, but it safeguards the european added value programmes which are close to the citizens and bear our signature, because the approach of parliament, unlike that of the council, was not from the outset fixed on a mere 1% debate. the aim was to define a comprehensive negotiating position, based on an in-depth analysis of the political and economic challenges of an enlarged union, as documented in the june resolution: internal and external political priorities, modernisation of budgetary structures and improvement of the quality of budgetary management. we're not even close to being done. but we have negotiated a large package and have broken up the council's concrete structures. the implementation of reforms in particular has a high monetary value for the union, for the member states and for those who have to implement community programmes. we have been able to secure better the rights of parliament in all the instruments of foreign policy. parliament was promised an appropriate role in the forthcoming 2008/2009 revision, and the commission's statement on the evaluation of these agreements in 2009 can guarantee the newly elected parliament its powers of design. but there are still some shortcomings. the galileo satellite programme is still underfunded. the decisions on rural development and voluntary modulation in agricultural policy are more than questionable. natura 2000 has been undermined. these and other construction sites remain unfinished. but, ladies and gentlemen, the council and the commission are watching. the resolution of 8 june 2005 continues to describe for us the optimal funding and reforms to achieve the ambitious objectives of the union of citizens and states, and we will return to this again and again. we will be very careful to ensure that the substance and spirit of all agreements are strictly adhered to. i thank the austrian presidency. we had constructive and fair negotiations. the council and the permanent representatives committee have been so opposed to reform that the presidency's work has certainly not been easy. i would like to thank the commissioner for her report. after a period of weakness and a more advisory stance on the part of the commission, you have returned to positive participation and have made a substantial contribution to the final result. this gives us hope for the future! all in all, a result has been achieved which, under the prevailing conditions, involves important progress in the interests of the citizens, in terms of reforms and budgetary modernisation and in respect of the rights of parliament. for these reasons, i recommend that you accept this agreement. (applause from the centre)
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i apologize for my slight delay. i am grateful for the opportunity to speak to the european parliament on the future financing of our union and on the interinstitutional agreement. we all know that the negotiations on the interinstitutional agreement were never easy. they were a particular challenge this time because they were not 15 member states to negotiate with, but 25. the european parliament is a stronger, more powerful institution, a truly important institution, and it has therefore acted with the appropriate self-confidence. i can assure you that the european parliament's negotiating team has not made it easy for us. i am very grateful, however, for the always positive and constructive atmosphere in our talks and negotiations, and i would like to thank very warmly the european parliament team that negotiated with us, mr lewandowski, mr böge, mr walter and mr mulder, for doing so in a constructive spirit, always with the aim of finding a solution for the european union. the way we have worked together can serve as an example of how our two institutions should work together in general, namely with the political will to find a solution, even if the starting positions are perhaps a little different. the result is very well known to all of you. i would therefore like to outline it in just a few points, as mr böge has done in his report. we are aware that it is inevitable that we will evaluate such results differently. it is inevitable that we cannot all be 100% satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations. i'm allowed to comfort you. the council's position is that the presidency's negotiations with parliament are not 100% acceptable to some of the council members. that's the nature of any compromise. i think the result is fair and balanced. the fact that we have reached a result on a key issue of the european union is in itself a success for me. we all agree that 2005 was a difficult year for the european union, and it is good, necessary and important that we have been able to demonstrate the capacity of the european union of 25 or the future 27 to act. i think that each institution has fulfilled its responsibilities in every respect. there has been a climate of cooperation for the best european solution. if you look at the figures, i am convinced that on the one hand we can confidently face our citizens, our taxpayers, and say: we are sparing our common tax money. on the other hand, we are setting specific priorities where more growth, more jobs and the common objective of reducing unemployment are concerned. if you compare what we spend today with what we spent in 2006 on important categories such as transeuropean networks, education and research and more, then i think we have been able to agree and negotiate very significant increases together for the next period. three short remarks. i think it was good and important that we were able to agree on a new part 3, which deals with the economic management of eu funds in the interinstitutional agreement. i think it is important to have more effective control of eu funds. i would also like to stress the willingness to continue the dialogue and the common objective of achieving better control and better financial planning. secondly, the overall ceiling. we all know that it was very difficult to reach this consensus in the council in december and that therefore an increase in this overall ceiling of eur 862 billion was a difficult question for the council. i believe that what has now been agreed on the increase can really be described as money well spent and i am glad that in the end a good compromise was reached, a compromise with moderation which also ensured the balance between the institutions and thus did not overburden any of the individual partners. thirdly, i think it is also important that we have managed to reach a common agreement in the form of a declaration on the review of the financial framework, particularly because it takes full account of parliament's responsibilities. i would like to conclude by saying that i have always been convinced that there can be only one common solution to the important question of joint finances and the interinstitutional agreement between the three institutions. disagreement on a core issue of the union would have been bad for our common europe. our consensus demonstrates our ability to act together for our union and is an important signal to our people. the council approved this interinstitutional agreement the day before yesterday, on 15 may, at the general affairs council meeting, and i ask you to join parliament in approving it today. i would like to thank you again for the good negotiations and for your willingness to give me the time to make these comments today.
member of the commission. mr president, on behalf of president barroso and the commission, i would like to welcome the agreement achieved by all negotiators from all three european institutions. i would like personally to thank the european parliament’s negotiating team, mr böge, mr lewandowski, mr mulder and mr walter, for the remarkable job they did. their support and tight cooperation has brought great results. i would also like to thank the minister for his untiring efforts to reach an agreement. that was also very helpful. we understand that this agreement does not reflect every area of our original ambitions, but it is the best possible compromise for today. it is a success, in particular because it encompasses not only quantitative elements but also includes a new chapter on sound financial management and a number of solid institutional commitments towards more effective budgetary management. the way eu money is spent is at least as important as the level of expenditure. in this respect i very much welcome the new commitments included in the iia as regards increasing the accountability of all financial actors, including the member states. the agreement is good news for an enlarged europe, because it means that we now have a clear financial framework for the development of the union over the next seven years, with full participation by the new member states in key european policies. the agreement contains many positive elements, in particular the boost to the development of the new member states. we increased funding for programmes directly related to the new lisbon agenda. there are also new elements. for the first time, the agreement entails a joint effort with the european investment bank. those funds will help act as a catalyst for lisbon-related priorities. finally, one should not forget the increased flexibility achieved through different instruments, to be mobilised where necessary for unforeseen events and needs. this agreement also clearly recognises the role parliament will play in the wide-ranging review covering all aspects of eu spending and resources, which will be one of the top priorities in the coming years. this agreement is an essential milestone, but we will now have to move swiftly to build on the momentum created by this agreement to accelerate and complete the legislative process necessary to get all programmes up and running from next year. again, let me thank all actors who participated in these negotiations, and i wish members a very good debate with a positive outcome. (applause)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we in the committee on foreign affairs have dealt with these questions and i would like to make two points. firstly, it is of the utmost importance that money is available for the european union's peacekeeping operations in the balkans, but also in many other countries in the world. meanwhile, the congo operation is also imminent. the increase in resources is to be welcomed. we would also welcome it if there were no division: the civil part is paid from the budget of the european union, the other part in a levy procedure by the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is certainly a deficiency here. it is also of great importance that we have identified deficiencies in these foreign missions, namely deficiencies in intelligence and telecommunications. when we send troops on difficult missions, it's very important that we first see what's going on on the ground, and for that, we need satellite-based intelligence. it is irresponsible to send soldiers into action with five or six different telecommunications systems, which are often not compatible or only difficult to use. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european satellite system and the establishment of common standards for telecommunications in this area. this is particularly important because the same deficiencies exist in the police and in the emergency services. let's say there's a tsunami coming to europe. then it is of the utmost importance, first, that you can see exactly what is going on, but secondly, that emergency services, police and military can communicate without any difficulty. the budget of the european union also has an important role to play in this respect. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the vast majority of the committee of the regions welcomes the fact that agreement has been reached on the financial perspective, despite the fact that regional policy and cohesion policy are 40 billion short of the parliament's proposal and despite the fact that it has not yet been possible to reach agreement with the council on the possibility of reusing unused funds under cohesion policy. but the committee of the regions is well aware of its responsibility to the 360 million voters who want to start the programmes we want to help the poorest regions of the european union with. the conclusion of the financial perspective will finally provide the political, economic and financial stability to put these proposals into practice. it is not only the people in the new member states who are waiting for the european union to help them. the european structural policy, the european regional policy, is active in every member state, and that is why i ask that the proposal put forward by mr böge actually receive a corresponding majority in the european parliament today. i should like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude for the negotiations conducted by the european parliament. i would also like to thank you for the additional eur 300 million in territorial cooperation and for the efforts to create a common legal framework. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. this is a success of the negotiations, also of the european parliament and of our negotiating group. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not i would also like to thank all the colleagues involved, and in particular rapporteur reimer böge, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, for their work. the programmes concerned are lifelong learning, youth, culture, media and citizens' europe. in the speeches given on sunday by all the politicians of the 25 member states, these programmes are the most important area of the european union's work. but when it comes to providing the appropriate funds for young people, the 25 governments are hiding behind and cutting dramatically, especially when it comes to the most important investments in the future of our young people. i therefore thank the commission and the european parliament on behalf of the committee on culture for not only speaking but acting and proposing appropriate dimensions for these programmes in their proposals. i am not talking about the financial dimension, but about the numbers of young people, and i will give you just two examples. in erasmus, that is student exchange , both institutions have proposed that 285 000 exchange students per year are possible. the council, the 25 governments, have cut that dramatically by over 50% to 140,000. in leonardo, this is the training from 150 000 to 36 000. i am therefore very grateful to all those who have helped to ensure that, at the end of these discussions, parliament's handwriting was at least clear and that the minimum level of credibility in this area was achieved with 800 million for lifelong learning and 300 million for the other programmes. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council! with all due respect, it is good that the council is not the only one to decide on european finances, but that there is this european parliament. (applause from the centre) parliament has made important improvements in the negotiations, in my view, because we have not simply followed the motto from the outset: 'you have a certain amount of money, see how you deal with it!' we have looked at the structures. we have taken care that it is not as in the past that we are first struggling to put a lot of money in the budget lines - as in the last forecast of 700 billion - but that we then end up actually spending just over 550 billion. so it must be about the quality of the expenditure. that is why we have insisted on making progress on the budgetary procedure. de-bureaucratize, take the crap out of it. money has to actually flow, and we have to make sure it gets to the right people. it was therefore important to ensure that the quality of the publication and its reach to the right people were also monitored in the member states. so we have put a lot of emphasis on the quality of the expenditure. it also means that we want to prevent the constant creation of new agencies or expansions of the common foreign and security policy from eating up margins that are needed elsewhere. that's why we had to set boundaries. we have therefore taken care to ensure that the budget is more structured in future and that the money can actually be used. secondly, we have made sure that there is sufficient flexibility in the budget for new things. we have created a margin in the europe of the people, where you, as a council, unfortunately had left nothing. we would have used up everything in the multiannual programme and had no chance of doing more. we have improved and extended the pilot projects and preparatory measures, thereby increasing the scope for action of this parliament, and we have achieved an additional 5% flexibility in the annual budgets for the multiannual programmes, so that we can also respond to the challenges with greater flexibility and precision. we have also made important progress on the various subjects. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees against the risks arising from the use of certain dangerous substances is a very good one. we have increased the number to 210,000 students. we have also achieved corresponding increases in the transeuropean networks and in progress, this programme which also combats social exclusion and sends a signal to europe that we are not just an economic union but also think of those who are in difficulty and help them. we have also made progress in health and consumer protection, crossborder cooperation and many other areas. if you ask me if i wish for more than what we have achieved, i will tell you without any doubt: yes, i wish for more, but i also know that compromises always need two sides or three sides. that's why we negotiated as hard as we could. we've had a tough negotiating partner. we have reached a result that cannot satisfy everyone's wishes. and we will bring back all the wishes we have described in the böge report in the next few years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will ask you how you want to fulfill your announcements keyword galileo , and you will then come to us. in conclusion, i would like to say that this compromise was not my dream, but i support it wholeheartedly and ask my colleagues to support it on that basis.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been very active in this field. unlike many of the speakers before me, i would like to explain why we think this compromise is a bad compromise and why we cannot agree to it. we believe that the financial perspective we have now for seven years must be measured by whether this budget is forward-looking, helps us to solve the problems we face together and is really europe-oriented. i therefore criticise the council. we have suffered greatly in recent years from this one per cent net contributor debate, because what is spoken in this debate is not the european spirit and concern for what is of european benefit, but a petty-bourgeois spirit and a narrowing of the national state. we are dealing with a national deformation of the european foundations, and this is detrimental to any future orientation. that is why we believe that there would have been an alternative, contrary to what my predecessors said. of course, we could have gone back to the annual budget procedure and we would have had 30 billion more as a parliament, which would have enabled us to implement our own priorities. let's see what the messages are. the european parliament and the commission have acted very responsibly in recent years, out of a sense of european responsibility. what can we do in europe better than the nation states alone? we must concentrate on this, and we can win over the citizens of europe. but what happened now? we have a structural budget, we are sticking to the agricultural policy, we are not shifting it to rural development, we are still subsidizing agricultural exports, which is what is destroying the development of african markets, and is also responsible for the refugee problem which we always complain about. the european union is pursuing the wrong policy here, and i very much regret that there has been no change and that the council has been so immobile. secondly, after the december council it was clear that savings had been made, particularly in the areas of the knowledgebased society and education, in complete contradiction to the council's own rhetoric of modernisation. they always stand up and say that europe must become the most economically successful region in the world by 2010, that we must develop the knowledge-based society, that we must do much more for education and exchange in europe, and then they cut that budget by 50%! the european parliament has now, with all its joint efforts, achieved some improvement, but there are only 210 000 students on erasmus - we wanted at least 285 000. this is not a successful compromise either, but a drop in the bucket. my next point is energy policy. europe should go ahead together and say we must move away from oil, we must invest much more in renewable energy, and we must adopt a new attitude here which also involves the citizens. we have not succeeded in all this, and so we conclude that this budget is simply not sufficiently forward-looking. the council has blocked many points, so we cannot agree to this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we'll have plenty of tasks to do in the next few days.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. like mr lamassoure, i too would like to focus my remarks on the reform of the financing system. the current system is impossible, unfair, opaque and unsustainable. the involvement of parliament in the 2008/2009 reform process is one of the key points for us here. thank you to our negotiator. we need a new system that is transparent to the citizens and also fair. this system of net payers, net recipients and discounts must be replaced by an objective system, probably by a share of a tax levied in all member states. the second point is the duration of a financial perspective. we want to make it fit for the legislative period: five years instead of seven. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. thirdly, i think it is good that we have transitional rules in case the constitution comes. i would very much like it to come, of course, because the rights of parliament are strengthened by the constitution. it's good that number four has taken care of that. i would also like to mention that the eu's external policies are subject to better financial control. this is normally a prerogative of the executive, i.e. the parliaments are outside. but we have a foot in the door through the budget, and the decentralized institutions and the european schools - which are usually not included - are also included in this agreement. thank you to mr böge and mr sousa pinto.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! first of all, i would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the decision of 25 heads of state or government - which was more the expression of a europe of governments - has now been converted into a european decision by negotiation. i would like to thank the negotiating delegation for their cooperation. i also believe that it is becoming increasingly clear in the member states that europe cannot function under the motto 'no one pays and no one takes away', but that a reasonable compromise must be found between the member states' demands for what europe should do financially and what the member states are prepared to provide in terms of resources. the negotiations with the parliament's delegation have made it clear what is at stake. it's a great success that we've achieved together. i would also like to make it quite clear that the interinstitutional agreement which we hope to adopt today offers a number of possibilities for us, namely how we can contribute to the sparing and orderly use of the money of the european taxpayer. i would like to mention just one subject, namely the great disease that is spreading in europe, the 'agencyitis', the disease of constantly wanting to set up new agencies. we've taken this out of the hands of the council. the interinstitutional agreement always requires parliament's consent. we are now the doctors who can fight this disease in the council. we should really be taking these instruments very seriously. i believe that we are creating greater added value for europe than if we leave this permanently in the hands of the council in secret.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am glad that i have the opportunity to reflect briefly on the debate and i would like to make just two points. some of the colleagues who have been negotiating with us, such as mr mulder and mr walter, have said that from the parliament's point of view we have succeeded in getting the most out of what was possible. it was negotiated hard and what was possible was achieved. i can only confirm that the presidency of the council has rightly made the negotiations difficult from the parliament's point of view and has tried to apply pressure accordingly and, of course, to achieve the best possible results. if some people have said that this compromise is not good enough and that they would vote against it because they think it will not achieve european objectives, then i would say the following: what would be the consequence if we did not reach a common compromise here, if we did not reach a common solution to the interinstitutional agreement and the financial perspective? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what would be the consequence? we are well aware that if the new member states had not completed the programme in time, they would not have been able to receive sufficient funds from the structural and cohesion funds, we would not have been able to adopt the appropriate legal bases, and we would not have been able to carry out programming in the individual member states. in this sense, if we had not succeeded together, if we had not been able to reach this compromise, it would have been a very bad signal for europe's ability to act, and a bad signal for our citizens. it is clear that on such a complicated basis as a seven-year financial perspective, an interinstitutional agreement which must be negotiated by the three main european institutions - the parliament, the commission and the council - no one can impose his position, but we can all give a signal. we have together reached the best possible solution for europe. that's our job! i can assure all those who have said that we should improve controls, that there is too little transparency, that it is a matter of great concern to me that we will continue to do everything we can in the coming months and years to improve controls, to improve transparency. it is important that our taxpayers, the european citizens, also see that we are sparing money, that we are transparent and that we try to avoid abuses. we have absolutely given them our assurance that we want to improve controls on the part of the council as well. i would like to thank once again the negotiating team of parliament and the commissioner and her team and ask you to give your consent to this compromise. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, we all listened and debated today. we can say that we reached the point where historic events can happen. today is a historic day for the chamber, a historic day for the enlarged europe. it is also a historic day for the presidency, which can say: 'if you support this agreement, the presidency has been very successful'. i would like to invite you to vote positively today, to send a message to europeans that europe can be safe, can be financed and can start to work. today, this decision is in your hands.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. my group rejects the report by mr böge for the following reasons: it is rightly said that parliament is disappointed with the present financial framework. it is therefore incomprehensible that this so-called compromise should be accepted. while qualitative improvements have been achieved in the final negotiations, the basic problem remains: the eu's high cohesion and development objectives cannot be achieved with this small budget. today we also discussed the report on the 2007 budget. the first paragraph of the proposal reads as follows: 'parliament expresses its concern at the apparent discrepancy between the challenges facing the european union and the resources that could be made available under the relevant headings of a retrospective financial perspective 2007-2013 to effectively address these challenges, in particular competitiveness, research and innovation, which have been identified as priorities by the council and the commission themselves'. 2007 is the first year to which the new financial perspective applies. it is not politically far-sighted to adopt a far too narrow framework plan, which means a reduction of more than 15% in the funds available between 2007 and 2013 compared to the funds originally considered necessary, and then immediately afterwards to complain about the lack of funds.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the report on the 2005 annual report on the situation of human rights in the world and the eu's human rights policy. he has my approval and support. the effectiveness of the eu's human rights dialogues was self-critically examined and balanced. despite the progress made, such as through the initiatives of the subcommittee on human rights or the appointment of a personal representative for human rights, shortcomings persist, particularly in the eu's human rights dialogues with third countries. i would like to stress once again the importance of human rights. greater consideration of these universal rights and their sustainable integration into all policy areas are essential. the european parliament's main tasks are to prosecute human rights violations worldwide and to promote and protect human rights. in future, i would welcome increased attention to the human rights situation in the countries which are candidates for accession to the eu.
the rapporteur. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs on the instrument for stability, i would like to look back briefly and emphasize that the commission's idea of the so-called prodi package for simplification - after all, 40 instruments will be reduced to 6 in order to be able to shape foreign policy more quickly and more effectively - was a good idea. we have been happy to accompany the commission along this path, even if it has not always been entirely uncontroversial. the profound reform of the community's foreign policy which we are discussing today can only be accompanied by a much-needed revitalization of the european parliament, because, given the scale of the european union's activities as a global actor, we are no longer prepared to play the role of a watchdog of government decisions. we want to be active in supporting them. in this report on the instrument for stability, i have therefore proposed the introduction of a call-back procedure which should enable us members of parliament to stop politically irresponsible measures at the planning stage. i think that the more we are active in foreign policy, the more we are involved as a parliament. i would like to stress once again that the 450 million citizens of europe also expect that this democratic legitimacy should be checked. that is our task, and in this respect the foreign affairs committee will also have new tasks once this instrument of stability has come into force. we'll have to check in early. we now have the means to do so, and we shall certainly use them. in this context, the negotiations with the council and the commission have been very slow and tedious at the beginning. we have waited for 18 months for concrete proposals from the council, but we are now in the final phase, and that is quite encouraging. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you, mrs ferrero-waldner, and all the other colleagues who took part in the trilogue, in particular ambassador woschnak, but of course also our committee chairman, elmar brok, and all those who i cannot name now and who have made this work easier for us. i would like to make a few brief comments on the points which were particularly important to us and on which there is now agreement. mrs ferrero-waldner, you have proposed a callback procedure which is in line with our ideas. secondly, you have now given us the commission's assurance in the review clause that you will take parliament's wishes into account in these amendments. thirdly, we have agreed on the substance. this was very important to us and will be very important in practical foreign policy. i would mention, for example, our call for a peacebuilding commission. we have reached agreement on landmines, on women and children, on the conditionality of anti-terrorism measures and on the revision clause. to put this in a more graphic way, after the tsunami, we had a very cooperative dialogue, we thought about how to combine instruments that are now all running at once and how to get the necessary help from the european union to the people faster. i am very grateful to you that we now have the commission's feasibility study on the civilian peace corps, and i think that in that coordination we have a political responsibility to bring together the right paths in a simplified way. the explanation we received from the commission yesterday after the last two trilogues also showed signs of compromise. i refer to your explanation of the question of terrorism. you said that these measures are being taken on the basis of human rights and international law. this was an important prerequisite for us to get the fight against terrorism moving in the right direction. on coordination in the field of peacebuilding: i will discuss your proposal from last night with my colleagues who have been actively accompanying me so far. i think we can reach an agreement there too and then we will have clarity on how the commission intends to coordinate its activities in this area with the council and other actors. it's unusual for the time, but we're having the policy debate today. we are in the final stretch to vote by consensus on the first reading of the stability instrument in june. i would like to conclude by saying again, and very clearly: if we are really serious about our commitment to human rights, then please ensure that the proposal for an instrument for democracy and human rights is sent to parliament as soon as possible, because for us the question of human rights and democracy is not a bargaining chip, nor is it a tool for blackmailing the development committee.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the neighbourhood instrument, mr szymański, for taking up so many of our committee's suggestions. this has given a new impetus to the commission's proposal. the committee on employment has emphasized the importance of enhancing the social dimension in the promotion of the neighbourhood instrument. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the reduction of tensions is only possible if the social dimension is promoted in the same way as the eu approach. i would like to stress once again the importance of the social partners in the context of the neighbourhood instrument. their strengthening and promotion is an essential prerequisite for the partnership with these countries. the implementation of educational measures and their role in society in accompanying the action plans are important achievements of this house.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not there is a consensus in this house that we need a rapid reform of the instruments of development cooperation. we have so far had 16 different regulations in this area, with different priorities and different deadlines. the current procedure is complicated, unclear and opaque. the commission's reform proposal is a perfect example of how not to do it. simplification and efficiency are not to be equated with a reduction in the co-decision rights of parliament, a systematic mixing of development cooperation and external economic policy towards industrialized countries and an unclear legal basis for the use of development funds. i have heard you today, madam commissioner, make contradictory statements on these three key points, carefully worded. let us take this as a reason to hope that the commission will make some headway. we need this movement, because we're running out of time. many regulations will expire at the end of the year. we will be in an uncertain legal position if we do not agree. we want the vote in parliament now, so that the legend does not arise that parliament would delay this agreement. after that, we'll have to negotiate. the austrian presidency has put forward some good ideas of what a compromise might look like. it is now up to the commission to abandon its tactic of sitting on these points, to come to us and negotiate a compromise which does not oppose simplification and full participation by parliament.
i have to say, madam president, this stability instrument is a very interesting approach, but there is a very central problem. it is an attempt to go beyond what is stated in the treaty of nice - that there is no separate military budget - and to introduce something by way of detours. i think that is very problematic. however, the paper was very open about the fact that the new financial instruments should make a major contribution to the development of the union as a global player. it is relatively openly stated that this is particularly about military expenditure. the treaty of nice states that an independent military budget is not possible, and that is what should be adhered to. instead, it is being tried and expanded, as it were, piece by piece. another problem is the uncertainty of this financial instrument. it can finance both civilian and military projects. my appeal is that you say quite openly that you want to finance military operations, you do it quite openly, then you can deal with it politically. it's very problematic that way.
i have to say, madam president, i welcome the fact that the new ipa programmes are clearly intended to have a political orientation. i am glad that conclusions have been drawn from the experience. the aim is to make the use of funds more results-oriented, more efficient and more flexible. we know that gradual european integration is the driving force behind the processes of change in the countries of the western balkans, but also in turkey. it is in the interest of parliament to be involved in a timely manner in the development of the framework, the evaluation of results and the conclusions. we will take the commission's commitments in this respect very seriously. the same is true of neighbourhood policy. we must insist that strict compliance with international law and conventions is as much a matter of course as our solidarity. we are not only promoting sound economic development, but we are also contributing to the strengthening of civil society as a breeding ground for european integration.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the council and the commission for the successful negotiations which have led to a number of instruments for which the committee on foreign affairs is responsible. i would also like to thank the three rapporteurs, two of whom worked on codecision, for having carried out the procedure in the way that codecision procedures are carried out, which means that we can certainly conclude this in june at first reading, when the human rights instrument is added. i would like to stress that it is not the number of regulations that determines the rights of parliament, but their content. we have achieved a great deal - i believe - in the three areas for which my committee is responsible, namely the co-decision procedure in the stability instrument, the possibilities created by financial regulation, the allocation of resources and increased political content. the review clause which must still be guaranteed in this parliament by this commission, the commitment to make this a legislative process, the possibility of a mid-term review of the content with the co-decision of the european parliament - these are just some of the points which give us more possibilities compared to what we had in the past. it is important that there are few rules that are clear, because that is transparency. of the 30 rules we've had, no one has ever been wrong, not even us. i think that is why we have a better way of doing things, and hopefully we can do it. we can be proud of our work. the european union spends four times as much on foreign aid as the united states. we should therefore make every effort to improve them and negotiate arrangements for their rapid implementation. it's a matter of execution. the european policy in the application of the instruments must be given even greater prominence. it is precisely this point that we in parliament will attach great importance to when we monitor the commission.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i shall be brief because time is very advanced. i take from this debate the conviction that there is a common effort, a common interest in concluding the negotiations on all the instruments as soon as possible. the presidency has already expressed its readiness to start the talks as early as next week in a letter to rapporteurs mitchell and van den berg, and i am grateful to mrs morgantini for her contribution to the debate on the need for these talks. we want to do this in good faith. i should like to thank mr brok in particular for saying what i have already tried to say in the committee on development, as president of the council, namely that the council is not concerned with curtailing the rights of parliament. we have no intention of trying to restrict parliament's rights and possibilities of cooperation, also in the interests of credibility vis-à-vis our partners. on the contrary, we are concerned with credibility and with increasing efficiency. it is therefore not necessary to count the instruments and measure them by how efficient we are. it is more about moving forward in terms of content. i thank everyone for their willingness to cooperate with the presidency and would like to conclude by quoting from the letter i mentioned: 'i can assure you that the presidency and the council are fully committed to finalising a compromise on the dceci before the summer break and will not spare any efforts as far as working time and personnel capacities are concerned.'
member of the commission. mr president, president-in-office, first of all i would like to say that this was a very intense debate on very important instruments. i think you have seen that we have been very open. however, i must also correct a misunderstanding by saying that we are clearly not opposed to codecision. the dceci instrument is fully subject to codecision. let me state clearly that we do not want to abolish codecision. this is a complete misunderstanding and an incorrect interpretation. we think that it is possible to work on the basis we have. the commission has accepted that the addition of additional policy content to the dceci should follow very closely the policy provisions of the 16 existing regulations as far as they still reflect current realities and policy priorities. however, let us not keep the current structure as the sole reference. it is unnecessarily complicated. we are saying that the policy provisions of these regulations can be perfectly imported, and adapted as necessary, into the main dceci regulation. i remember that you all always want quick, swift, efficient delivery. how can we do that if we make things even more complicated? i could not agree more with mr brok. it is not the number of regulations but the content of the regulations that makes codecision possible. a second minor point regarding the request for new commission proposals: at this stage of the discussion, and given the urgent need to come to a prompt agreement, the commission considers it necessary to use the president’s proposal as a basis. all the elements are already on the table. i think they are a very fair reflection of what the commission itself would have proposed, as we were closely involved in their development. moreover, the council itself is now preparing its position on the basis of these proposals, so it is also in parliament’s interest to work on this basis, provide input and consequently establish the basis for a negotiated common position. let me also reiterate our wish to move forward, but now we really have to start negotiating.
the joint debate is closed. the vote on the mitchell report will take place at 12 noon tomorrow. the vote on the other reports will take place in june. the commission's position
the next item is question time (b6-0207/2006). we shall deal with the following questions to the council. part one
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, i am pleased to be able to take part in question time again under your presidency, and i shall begin with the first question from mr bernd posselt on the progress of the accession negotiations with croatia. let me begin by explaining that the accession negotiations with croatia, like all other accession negotiations, are governed by the principle that each country is judged on its own merits. in the public interest, this principle must be emphasised again and again, and the pace of the negotiations depends solely on the candidate country's - in this case croatia's - fulfilment of the conditions for membership. the european union's capacity to receive refugees is of course also taken into account, as is stated in the relevant decisions. the council cannot and should not give a date for the conclusion of the negotiations which began on 3 october. as regards the next steps, on 20 february this year the council adopted the accession partnership for croatia, which sets out the priorities to be met on the road to accession. the commission's screening reports on the negotiating chapters science and research, education and culture, public procurement and competition are available. the council examined the screening reports on the first two chapters, science, research, education and culture, and invited croatia to present its negotiating positions. i have them now and the council will now have to define a common position. it is planned that negotiations on these chapters will begin on 13 june in the context of an accession conference at foreign minister level. i repeat that it will ultimately depend on the progress of the applicant countries themselves how far and how quickly these negotiations can be continued.
i was in split last week with the chairman of the european people's party. there is considerable concern in croatia that the chapters, which must be concluded unanimously, will only be concluded once the negotiations with turkey on the respective chapter have been concluded. the council can state clearly that this is not the case. you said yourself, everyone is judged by his or her merits. but there is a danger that there is still a parallelism in time which is not at all appropriate in the light of the subject matter and the size of the countries.
the president of the council. the establishment of the energy community is in itself making good progress. the treaty has now been signed by four countries. i see no reason why this treaty, if it is useful, should not be extended to other countries. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. negotiations with turkey, which has not signed the agreement, are also continuing. turkey is of great interest as a transit country and a link. i would imagine that a future development would also involve an expansion of the contracting states.
the president of the council. if further unification of this - as you rightly say - fragmented set of competences is necessary, the commission will have to propose legislation. the council is seeking to develop a common approach to a credible common external energy policy in the wake of the decisions taken in march. the high representative was also asked for suggestions on this common approach. i am sure that mr solana will also say something on this subject, because this is a very important issue in the context of the european union's overall foreign policy.
the president of the council. the austrian chancellor spoke at the european parliament in january 2006 about the possibilities of introducing a direct source of funding from the european union. the financial perspective, which is financed mainly by contributions from the individual member states, was discussed at that time, and therefore the discussion about a direct source of financing for the budget of the european union was reopened. following the agreement reached by the european council in december 2005 on the financial perspective for 2007-13, today the treaty was signed, bringing the so-called interinstitutional agreement to a successful conclusion. today the commission was given the task of carrying out a comprehensive review of all aspects of eu expenditure, including the common agricultural policy and the own resources system, including the rebate for the united kingdom, with a view to reporting in 2008 and 2009 respectively. in a joint statement by all three institutions on the new interinstitutional agreement, this approach was confirmed in april 2006. i would like to stress that we must also apply the principle of unanimity in this matter, and this is of course a very difficult question to resolve because not all the member states agree, especially as regards the direct source of funding to be found. i think there are very different views on this issue throughout the european parliament.
the president of the council. the question is not only discussed but also studied in greater depth and will remain a constant theme in ecofin because it is primarily intended to be evaluated. this has been agreed in the context of the financial perspective. we hope that this is a process that can be successfully completed.
the president of the council. i am quite in agreement with you, as a member of the austrian ministry of finance, that every budget has two sides, one of expenditure and one of revenue. there are two ways to get around his budget. we are trying to achieve a balanced budget in all countries, at least above the cyclical balance, by increasing revenue on the one hand, which is of course not appreciated by the citizens and the economy. on the other hand, we are seeking more efficient expenditure. the commission has therefore decided to reduce expenditure but to do so with the necessary efficiency and to ensure that all the taxes provided for by law are actually paid to the state rather than introducing new taxes. this is an important discussion and i was just recently in some of the new member states to discuss such issues as vat fraud, which is a very big problem throughout europe. it is estimated to be worth 70 billion euros. the same applies to the fight against smuggling. we discussed in austria, under our presidency of the council, with tax experts in vienna in february how to tackle vat fraud with other tax systems and how to improve the existing system.
as they concern the same subject, the following questions will be dealt with together: question no 6 by mrs batzeli (h-0314/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: further harmonization of taxation rules under current legislation, tax policy is the exclusive responsibility of the individual member states and is determined by economic and social needs or conditions at national level. there is very little community legislation on taxation. however, this fragmented tax policy in the eu often creates tax problems for companies, especially smes, as they have to bear high costs of adjustment and also face problems of double taxation when operating in more than one member state. in addition, the disparity in national tax bases leads to a certain degree of tax competition, particularly between the new and the old eu member states, which in turn leads to new inequalities in the treatment of companies and often leads to the relocation of companies to member states of the community where tax rates are lower. does the council consider that the introduction of uniform and more coherent rules in the field of tax policy would result in fairer treatment of taxpayers within the eu and could at the same time give a new impetus to the eu's competitiveness? what is the state of the negotiations on the promotion of a common consolidated corporate tax base, to which the european parliament has given its consent? question no 10 by othmar karas (h-0373/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: common cost basein the informal ecofin council, the introduction of a common cost base for business taxation was discussed. once again, it has been shown that a number of member states are opposed to this idea, or at least very sceptical. what concrete results can be expected in the foreseeable future from the austrian presidency, given the principle of unanimity on taxation? will this issue be on the agenda of the next presidencies?
the president of the council. the tax harmonization of corporate taxation is, on the one hand, about simplifying the economy, so that there is no different tax base in each country, i.e. different depreciation possibilities between country a and country b or c, but that there are always the same possibilities. because that's a big problem for a company. international companies have told us about the different regulations that have to be observed in the automotive industry alone in car production and the high administrative burden that this causes. on the other hand, it is a question of fair, transparent competition. transparent competition means that the company's profits are taxed on a uniform basis, with competition taking place at different rates. we don't want to eliminate competition. this should always be done in the spirit of the lisbon process. the second point is that we are a single market and a single market requires common rules.
the president of the council. in this connection, it should be noted that the ecofin council adopted the directive on taxation of interest-bearing income on 3 june 2003. this directive aims to ensure that cross-border interest income received by eu residents in the form of interest payments is taxed in the member state where they are resident or subject to withholding tax in the member state which is considered to be the source of the income. in order to ensure competitive neutrality vis-à-vis major financial centres outside the eu, the directive also provides for the same or equivalent measures to be applied by a number of territories and third countries, including 10 dependent and associated territories such as the isle of man and five european countries, namely andorra, liechtenstein, monaco, san marino and switzerland. the measures laid down in the directive and the agreements concluded with third countries and territories have been applied by all 40 contracting parties concerned since 1 july 2005. the territorial scope of the directive may in principle be extended to other relevant financial centres. on 1 december 1997 the council adopted a resolution on a code of conduct for business taxation, which deals with potentially harmful tax measures which significantly affect or may affect the location of economic activities in the community. 66 tax measures in the old member states and 30 in the new member states were identified as harmful by the code of conduct group and largely phased out. the code of conduct group is now focusing on its future work. a report on this is expected to be sent to the council in june.
the president of the council. i agree with the honourable member that it is of course ideal to establish tax rules in a single market covering almost all of europe. but it is also necessary that they become effective, that the same rules are applied in neighbouring countries or, if possible, beyond the continent, otherwise eu citizens will be given the opportunity to invest their money abroad, where such rules do not apply. it was therefore important - and i visited some of these countries myself during the negotiations - to overcome any resistance. in any case, liechtenstein, san marino and the countries i mentioned earlier have signed this treaty. this at least ensures that the taxation rules in these territories are uniform. it would be desirable, of course, if other countries followed suit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the president of the council. i shall come back to that question. one question relates to money laundering. it is of course important - and the fadf is an important institution - that uniform guidelines on money laundering are applied in all these countries of the enlarged economic area, and there are discussions on this from the commission.
the president of the council. we are now moving from the tax to the budget question. it is a question of respecting the budgets of the member states. following the debate at the 2005 spring european council, the commission has put forward proposals to amend regulations (ec) no 1466/97 and (ec) no 1467/97, which form the legislative component of the stability and growth pact. the amending regulations in question were adopted on 27 june 2005 following a lengthy process of discussion in the course of which it had already been said that the old stability pact was dead , these regulations being adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 252 of the treaty and regulation 1056/2005 after parliament's opinion. on 11 october 2005, the ecofin council also adopted a revised code of conduct on the implementation of the stability and growth pact and guidelines on the content and form of the stability and convergence programmes. all these rules are publicly available, as is information on the council's past actions under the revised stability and growth pact. the latter comprise the following acts: decisions under article 104 (6) tec on the existence of an excessive deficit in italy, portugal and the united kingdom, and recommendations on measures to correct it on the basis of article 104 (7) tec, a decision under article 104 (8) tec finding that the measures taken by hungary following the council recommendations on the correction of the excessive deficit have proved insufficient, and a council decision under article 104 (9) tec replacing germany, with a provision on the measures necessary to reduce the excessive deficit. the council also delivered opinions on the updated stability and convergence programmes of all member states, which were first drawn up in the context of the new regulatory framework of the revised economic and stability pact. in short, despite the criticism that the stability pact is practically dead, it has just been shown that the new economic and stability pact works and that it is alive. this is also reflected in the fact that deficits in 2005 were significantly lower than in 2004.
the president of the council. this is precisely why we gave such importance to the lisbon strategy at the last european council. it was about growth, because growth can increase employment and thus reduce unemployment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the fact that these objectives should also be achieved is a very important approach. unemployment is the biggest problem in europe at the moment. the council presidency has taken very concrete and targeted measures in this respect. at present, growth is threatened by the oil price trend. we must be clear about this potential danger. we hope that stability will come about here, especially in world politics. today, oil prices are largely a psychological phenomenon, not so much a supply problem. iran has already been mentioned. we must do everything possible to achieve the growth rates we are facing, both in terms of real international competition with the united states and the asian economies, and to reduce, through political stability, all the risks that are emerging and which can naturally affect economic growth. the aim of reducing unemployment effectively, however, must be to achieve even higher growth rates. we need a growth rate of three percent. three percent would bring unemployment down significantly. the growth rate of 2.6 is therefore still too low, although this is a good figure compared with previous years.
the president of the council. i refer again to my answer. i have named all these countries keyword deficit italy. of course, one must always bear in mind that in the countries - italy in particular - it was an election year, which of course hinders such a deficit process, because political decisions then rest for a certain period. but italy has promised to take all the measures required by the council with the new government now. i have mentioned all the countries with the greatest deficits: italy, portugal, the united kingdom, and, of the new member states, hungary, with a deficit of 6%. the council has consistently worked to reduce the deficit, and this is having an effect. the 2005 budget year brought, as already mentioned, an overall reduction in the deficit compared with the previous year.
questions which have not been dealt with for reasons of time will be answered in writing (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. my group supports the treaty before us, but we would like to emphasize some of the points raised as concerns which we attach to the approval. we believe that all signatories to the treaty should in fact give their full commitment to the european charter of fundamental rights. we believe that it is absolutely necessary - also in order to avoid a disruption of the energy market we are seeking - that what has been enshrined in the memorandum of understanding - consequences for employment, social standards, working conditions, health, environmental consequences - needs a binding legal basis. the commission and the council must take the call for binding legislation very seriously. we believe it is very important that this treaty does not allow or pursue energy strategies which would have been appropriate 20 years ago at the most. we believe that in this new treaty energy efficiency must be a very important concern and that the orientation of the market to be created must not be based solely on demand. in line with the debate on greater autonomy in energy supply in europe, the consideration of renewable energies must be a central focus in all regions of this treaty. we are very concerned that too rapid and reckless privatisation could be harmful. we have experience of too rapid privatisation of state monopolies and believe that the commission must keep in mind that general public interests must be taken into account in privatisation and the strategies for doing so.
member of the commission. mr president, it is not only a case of knowledge but of respect. i wish to thank mr elles for a very good start to the process in which we are engaging in the first year of the new financial perspective, after the successful signature and vote today in parliament. today we are starting a process in which we will be engaged seriously in preparation for the first year of this financial perspective, a symbolically important year. in the report on the aps, policy priorities have been set and we think that the core goals and priorities of the commission’s five-year strategic objectives are reflected in the 2007 budget proposal. on prosperity, growth and employment, about 43% of our preliminary draft budget is to be devoted to the lisbon strategy through headings 1a and 1b. the commission is also committed towards close cooperation with the eib on new financial instruments to increase the leverage effect of the eu budget for lisbon-related priorities, including trans-european networks and support to smes. on solidarity, security and freedom, which are important priorities mentioned in the aps, we have already included eur 291 million for solidarity and management of migration, including the external borders fund and the fund for integration of third country nationals. the commission proposes a 17% increase for environmental policies, including the extension of the emissions trading scheme to the new member states. on external relations, we agree that europe, as a world partner, needs to support this area financially. the key action for 2007 is the start-up of new programmes, such as the instrument for pre-accession and the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. we must also continue to strengthen relations with our partners in the developed world. on eu governance and human and financial resources for 2007, i should like to point out that we have already requested 610 new posts in relation to the last enlargement, and 230 to prepare for the accession of romania and bulgaria. the commission proposes the redeployment of about 600 staff between its dgs to serve priorities other than enlargement-related needs. on value for money, i am fully in favour of a wider, more macroeconomic approach towards the assessment of how european financial resources are used. i am satisfied that the new part iii of the iia on sound financial management is, and will be, effectively and fully implemented. i have proposed the introduction of an early warning system to ensure more accurate forecasts and close monitoring of budget implementation. we will listen very carefully and take into account all your opinions expressed today and in the future. we are always ready to cooperate with you and the council in an open-minded manner, and we hope to have a very good result: a favourable budget by the end of this year.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development. – mr president, let me make some remarks from the point of view of development cooperation. in my view, the commission is seeking to amalgamate various budget lines. if it succeeds, it will no longer be possible for this parliament to take decisions on how much is allocated to important sectors such as combating hiv/aids. parliament should not allow its powers to be curtailed in this way. secondly, the commission’s aps document does not refer at all to the millennium development goals or sectors important for poverty reduction, particularly education and poverty diseases. what is more, i have to insist that the ‘simplification’ of the legislative context for external action for the period from 2007 to 2013 must not result in a loss of transparency in the use of development policy resources and that the breakdown between budget lines for geographical regions and thematic sectors for the 2007 budget must allow for at least the same level of visibility as the 2006 budget. in addition, let me mention the importance of the commission monitoring the member states and their official development assistance levels, because of the problem of some member states overstating oda levels by taking into account funds that are not actually part of oda. linked to the oda level is aid effectiveness and quality. the commission must continue to implement the paris agenda on aid effectiveness and show the public that eu development aid makes a difference. finally, i want to underline the need always to put the fight against poverty at the top of the eu agenda and, therefore, the need to strive for a substantial share of aid to go to the ldcs.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. we are faced with considerable risks for the 2007 financial year, both in terms of the figures and the procedures for implementing the multiannual programmes based on the financial regulation. the new programmes have a potential which can only be properly exploited by improved procedures. it is important for all those involved, especially for the users of the programmes, that the legislative process of the financial regulation, its implementing regulation and the multiannual programmes is now completed as quickly as possible in order to allow your staff, madam commissioner, early involvement. we are waiting with interest for the commission's revised proposal on the reform of the financial regulation to be submitted. the commission has already indicated, when it adopted our draft, that it would accept most of our amendments. the european parliament then, by a majority in name, which was almost never achieved in this house, gave special emphasis to important points. faster, leaner and more efficient - these were our points for the procedures to be able to invest european funds in a useful and value-adding way. the protection of parliamentary rights is also of particular importance to us. we shall examine the revised commission proposal which has been announced for tomorrow. but for a comprehensive analysis, we need a complete picture not just of its outline, but of its colors. the points which the commission and the council want to see in the implementing regulations must be known to parliament in order to know to what extent its opinion has been implemented, in both documents. i would like to assure you, madam commissioner, that we are doing everything possible at all our construction sites to ensure that it is quickly adopted in this house. i would ask the commission to present as soon as possible a comprehensive budgetary and implementing regulation so that we can start the new programmes in time for the new programming period with the new procedure. i also appeal to the council to continue to maintain good and constructive cooperation so that europe, its citizens, its member states and its institutions can achieve better and, above all, cheaper administration.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european parliament has taken an important step today in adopting the financial perspective so that structural programmes can start in the regions of the european union as early as possible in 2007. we are taking another important step tomorrow with the adoption of our proposals on the strategic guidelines for cohesion policy. i would like to take this opportunity today to emphasize once again that the european parliament has greatly accelerated the process by dealing with these guidelines in parallel with the negotiations on the financial perspective and the fund regulations, and i would like to thank all the members who are taking part in the debate. i apologize for the late hour, but it was the only way to get this report through this may part-session. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission has put forward a comprehensive proposal. i would like to suggest to you, however, some important additions or reinforcements to policy approaches. the starting point is that with the enlargement of the european union in 2004, disparities between regions have increased and we must use scarce resources strategically, wisely and efficiently. the possibilities of private co-financing must therefore also be used more intensively in the coming years. what are the main points i would like to make in my speech today? firstly, i think we must make it clear that cohesion policy is of course intended to support the lisbon strategy, but we must not forget the sustainable development of the european union in accordance with the gothenburg objectives. secondly, we know that 80% of the european population lives in cities or urban areas. we must therefore place greater emphasis on this dimension in our strategy. thirdly, we must strengthen territorial cohesion in programming, a demand which is also rightly made by the committee of the regions. within the three commission guidelines enhancing the attractiveness of europe and its regions for investors and workers, promoting knowledge and innovation for growth and more and better jobs we support the development of sustainable transport infrastructure, including in border regions. we attach particular importance to the implementation of environmental priorities such as natura 2000, the water framework directive and the sustainable prevention of natural disasters. we draw attention to the particular opportunities of using renewable energy and developing new technologies in this field. the development of research infrastructures and the exploitation of research results by smes is an important concern in our strategy, as is access to modern information and communication networks. these are all aspects of the development of an economy which creates more and, in particular, better jobs in the european union. but the best possible qualification of the people living in this european union is also a very important prerequisite for jobs. the focus of our report is on the lifelong learning strategy. we support programmes for children and young people, but also for the qualification of workers and the access of older people to education. for all the priorities set out in the report, i would like to make it clear that in future it must be ensured that there is non-discriminatory access to the european union's cohesion policy. this includes, but is not limited to, people with disabilities. we want to be able to continue and build on the positive experience gained with the old equal community initiative in the next funding period. the involvement of the social partners, but also of organisations, associations and regional actors, in the preparation of regional plans needs to be significantly increased. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can now start the next seven years with new strategic approaches. i'm very pleased. i thank my colleagues from the political groups for their broad support and can only ask the council to adopt the overall cohesion policy package as soon as possible. we want to confirm and strengthen the confidence of the people of the european union in the solidarity of european politics.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. thanks to constanze krehl for the good cooperation. the guidelines have been successfully aligned on the principle of sustainable development. i would like to stress this point because the commission has now moved away from giving this importance to sustainable development. the earmarking, which has now been incorporated into the general regulation through the back door as a competitor to the guidelines, creates the problem that the overall approach of the guidelines, which is horizontal and vertical at the same time, is being destroyed. when the lisbon strategy is separated from the gothenburg strategy, industrial regions and cities are the winners and rural areas the losers. i do not want to say this in competition with my predecessor, mr beaupuy, because he is referring in particular to the problem areas in the cities, but cohesion in some regions is being called into question by this separation, with devastating consequences. i would like to take the example of the country you know best. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. she's only getting the rest of the funding. i don't think that's what this is. in my view, these problems which the commission has created in its own initiative can only be solved in retrospect if the commission, in its operational programmes, ensures that sustainable development is given equal consideration in all its dimensions and for all areas - urban and rural - in the economic, social and ecological approach, that is, in an approach to development of equal value. if the commission does not pay sufficient attention to this, we shall not have real cohesion in europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank mrs krehl for the good report and the excellent cooperation on this subject. the economic disparities between the regions of the european union will increase in the coming planning period, not least because of the forthcoming enlargements, but the resources for the structural funds will not increase, as we know today. this means that the limited resources available must be used intelligently and efficiently, always bearing in mind that cohesion policy cannot solve all structural problems and replace the efforts of the member states. i support the critical questioning of the purpose of earmarking, for example. we're being shackled here. the risk here is that the regions will not have the flexibility to design programmes to respond to local and regional needs. i would like to stress the special attention paid to the urban dimension, which is not sufficiently taken into account in the commission's proposal. the economic and social disparities in urban areas in particular call for greater support. it is very important that all programmes be implemented with the help of private co-financing. this is something that must be emphasized again and again, especially in times of tight public funds. and that is the general opinion of all our committee members. it is essential to encourage private co-financing at the project level. unfortunately, too little use is made of public-private partnerships in the context of the structural funds, because there are a lot of unresolved legal issues to be solved. it is to be welcomed that the negotiations on the financial perspective have succeeded in bringing the different standards of cohesion policy for the old and new member states to a large extent into line.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. in the face of increasingly frequent natural disasters such as the many forest fires and floods, not least in the summer of 2005 the call for european solidarity is growing. the solidarity fund, set up after the devastating floods of 2002 and designed to run until 2006, is intended to give the european union greater capacity to respond to major disasters or crises. the fund is intended to make a significant contribution to the union's ability to act more effectively and more effectively in areas where citizens expect action from the european union. with the instruments in place, it has been extremely difficult, if not impossible, to respond adequately at eu level to major crises, some of which are not of natural origin. examples of this are industrial accidents such as the prestige tanker accident or the madrid bombing in march 2004. in addition, the current threshold for mobilising the solidarity fund is extremely high, so that exceptional conditions and derogations prevailed. the new regulation on the solidarity fund rightly provides for a broader scope of application, i.e. to extend the scope of major crises beyond natural disasters to industrial and technological disasters, provided that the polluter principle is not applicable and that the damage is not insurable. it also covers emergency response to public health crises and acts of terrorism, but that's the crux of the matter, with the same budget. the concept of a major disaster is also being redefined. accordingly, a disaster is considered to be a disaster which causes direct damage estimated at more than eur 1 billion or more than 0.5% of the gdp of the state concerned. this is damage in the public sector, not private or insurable damage. the threshold has so far been set at eur 3 billion, or 0.6% of gdp. these thresholds were proposed by the commission and parliament at the time but were not accepted by the council. finally, a new policy criterion is to be introduced, according to which the commission may, in exceptional and duly justified circumstances, declare a disaster situation to be a major disaster in a particular part of the territory of an eligible state, even if the quantitative criteria are not met. this is likely to be the case, above all, in the case of terrorist acts. it should be noted that the european union solidarity fund is not a preventive measure but a response to disaster situations. this excludes, for example, the use of the fund as a preventive measure for protection against pandemics or other preventive measures. the solidarity fund is not and cannot be a health-care fund. health policy remains a matter for the nation states. the only areas covered are the use of vaccines and medicines in emergency first aid, emergency medical and psychological care and measures to deal with the risk of disease, for example following floods. the financial resources of the fund are as before limited to a virtual annual budget of dm 1 000 million. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available for the programme are used to finance the necessary measures. the funds are therefore non-transferable. i would like to conclude by thanking all those who have contributed to this report, the secretariat, my staff and colleagues across all political groups. i would also like to thank the commission for the good cooperation it has shown.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union solidarity fund has been in existence since 2002, and yet it is in need of a revision. it is based on the two principles of solidarity and crisis relief and has proved its worth in dealing with the effects of natural disasters. however, recent years have also shown that the scope of application should not be limited to natural disasters. it has become increasingly clear that we must also be able to respond to industrial and technological disasters, to crises caused by terrorist acts, but also - and this is particularly important to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety - to public health crises, and to provide solidarity and financial support. so that it is clear to everyone once again, this is not about prevention. this is the responsibility of the member states in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. we are talking about solidarity in the event of the spread of a disease, a pandemic or an accident such as the one at chernobyl. we want to be able to help and not burden the european budget with unnecessary tasks, not even to deal with natural disasters. i therefore also expect my colleagues not to support the renewed call for a monitoring centre for drought, desertification and other effects of climate change, as called for in another report. the commission has already taken up these tasks, and we must be aware that any additional agency, whatever we call it, will limit the financial scope for our policies. and how close it is anyway, we decided yesterday.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i'd like to speak to the solidarity fund. as the rapporteur has already said, it was the devastation caused by the floods of 2002 that prompted parliament, the commission and the council to re-establish the aid fund. the current regulation is of the second generation. it has become a really useful and flexible instrument thanks to the clear and narrow framework set by the rapporteur. we support that. it is true that the fund is not a preventive but a response instrument. but we do not think it is responsible to make the same mistakes in response as those which have already caused a disaster. for example, the rivers that destroyed settlements. you can't be forced into a tight corset again! this is the only responsible use of european taxpayers' money. at the same time, i would point out that some member states tend to simply collect european funds and present them to the population as their own aid measure. i don't think that's going to work. we know that the european union has a credibility deficit. this is an instrument where the eu shows that it has credibility with its citizens. there must be no redeclaration of aid. the commission must ensure that the source of funds is clearly identified and that in any case the proportion of aid financed by european funds is reported on the ground. these are the main amendments tabled by our group and they improve the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sorry, you're at a pace where the interpreters are translating so vaguely that we can't understand it anymore.
in writing. unfortunately, today's vote rejected a motion by my group condemning the serious human rights violations in iraq and recalling that 'the war in iraq is illegal and in breach of international law and the un charter'. the call for the un to launch an inquiry into the human rights violations committed by the international coalition, in particular the use of prohibited weapons such as white phosphorus in the storming of fallujah and the use of collective punishment against the iraqi people, which is prohibited by international conventions, was also rejected by a majority of the european parliament in a roll-call vote. this vote represents the double standards contained in the human rights report. human rights violations in states which are friends of the european union are not, or are not sufficiently, criticised. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the restriction of the right to conscientious objection worldwide is simply being hidden. wars and military involvement by nato and eu member states simply do not take place in the human rights report. the commission also welcomed the adoption of a resolution by the left group on western sahara, which 'condemns the continuation of human rights violations against the sahrawi population' and calls for 'the protection of the sahrawi population'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we must stand together in europe to combat the negative effects of natural disasters, no question. we need the solidarity of the neighbouring countries of the regions concerned. we also need european programmes to help in the event of a crisis. the report provides a number of starting points. european crisis aid: yes, the commission has already taken action. the member states are primarily responsible for disaster prevention. we should not relieve the member states of this responsibility by delegating responsibility to the european level. the same applies to the organization of crisis management. the keyword is european civil protection. we do not need new responsibilities in civil protection and disaster management. this creates a double responsibility and a waste of money on administrative apparatus. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the countries of the former soviet union and to provide information on the situation in the countries of the former soviet union. new european powers, on the other hand, do more harm than good. we shall have to talk about this after these reports.
a writer. the commission is not after weeks of massive demonstrations with hundreds injured, even dead, king gyanendra finally stepped in at the beginning of may, handing over the power he had assumed in february 2005. he had declared a state of emergency, arguing that the ruling party had failed to defeat the maoists. what has happened in nepal in recent months is unique. i know this himalayan state very well, having visited it over a dozen times. the people, who have suffered years of terror and arbitrary arrests, have unleashed their anger through active resistance, which will ultimately allow the return to democracy. the new multi-party coalition under the very experienced prime minister koirala began direct negotiations with the rebels. a constituent assembly is to be convened, which will then decide on the future form of government. the maoists have declared themselves ready to accept the vote of this body. it is particularly important to me that they now also surrender their weapons and no longer stand in the way of the democratic construction of this country. i hope the coalition of the departed can join forces to restore public safety permanently. political prisoners, human rights defenders, students and journalists must be released. tens of thousands of displaced persons must finally be able to return to their homes without risk to their lives or bodies. i now expect that the tibetan refugee centre and the office of the dalai lama in kathmandu will also be reopened. let us show our solidarity with the europeans by sending a parliamentary group to nepal as soon as possible. let us encourage those involved in the reconstruction of democracy, including the ngos and the citizens in general, who want more than technical and important financial assistance from outside, namely stability and internal peace! may tourism also flourish once again - the main source of income for this still fascinating country. namaste! what are you doing?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not in nepal, a king has succeeded in destroying a young democracy and an old monarchy that was deeply rooted in the people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because there is a danger that we will expel the devil with beelzebub and that one dictatorship will be replaced by another. i do not want the democrats who are now taking charge in nepal to suffer the same fate as a kerensky after the first russian revolution, that is, the overthrow of the tsar's rule and then a totalitarian one-party dictatorship in its place shortly afterwards. we must therefore give massive support to the very weak and fragmented democratic forces and ensure that this democracy is not soon replaced by another dictatorship. nepalese people only have to look to neighbouring tibet to see what a one-party dictatorship can do to an ancient asian culture. that is why we must give our full support to the nepalese democrats, so that they are not crushed between the millstones!
member of the commission. mr president, events have been taking a positive turn in nepal, with king gyanendra finally backing down in the face of mounting opposition to his absolute rule. the impact of the people’s democratic movement is impressive: parliament has been restored, the government is committed to electing a constituent assembly to rewrite the constitution and, most importantly, talks will soon be under way between the new interim government and the maoists, under a mutually agreed ceasefire. this is a major victory for the nepalese people. there is now a tremendous opportunity for the new government to restore democracy and pursue a peace process, but the many challenges that lie ahead should not be underestimated. the victory of the pro-democracy movement marks only the first step in nepal’s long road to peace and stability. the new interim government is faced with important challenges: planning for constitutional changes, keeping the peace process with the maoists on track and responding to calls for transitional justice. the primary goal must now be to agree a formal ceasefire and bring an end to hostilities between the royal nepalese army and the maoists. the second is to take forward a peace process based on constitutional redress. the third is to ensure that nepal emerges again on the world scene as a stable democracy. the eu has a key role in helping nepal through this difficult process. the commission is ready to contribute to a possible peace package. such a package could include, inter alia, support for elections, election observation, ceasefire monitoring and the necessary technical assistance. working closely with the european union member states and successive european union council presidencies, the commission remains committed to pursuing all efforts that may contribute towards a stable, democratic and peaceful nepal.
a writer. the commission is not the situation in sri lanka is escalating. there are new ltte attacks and their positions are decided by the sri lankan government. overall, the situation is now being described in a number of media outlets as a small-scale war. i believe that description is correct. the question is: what role could the eu play in de-escalating this conflict? how is it possible to prevent further escalation here? there is a proposal to put the ltte on the eu's official list of terrorists. that would be extremely counterproductive, especially in the present situation, because the negotiations have not been able to take place on eu territory and it is thanks in particular to the norwegian government that there has been a negotiation process. the eu should act as a de-escalation mechanism by avoiding unilateral blame. unfortunately, this is not the case in the resolution before us, because it places the blame relatively unilaterally on the ltte. the sri lankan government has also contributed enormously to this escalation in recent times. the eu plays an important role in another area. the fact is that there are still deportations from certain countries of the european union to sri lanka in a situation where this war on the ground is being fought on a low-level. these deportations must be stopped immediately. i would ask the commission, and the council, to take a real active part in this and not to blame one side.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i ask you to give me the floor on the basis of rule 34 of the rules of procedure. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. i would also like to ask you, on behalf of my colleagues, the chairmen of the political groups, mr wurtz, mr frassoni, mr watson and mr poettering, to put on the agenda of the next meeting of the conference of presidents the events which have been of particular concern to us all in the european union in recent days and weeks, namely the increase in xenophobic, racist and, above all, homophobic violence in the european union or against citizens of the european union. in particular, we are very concerned that a leading member of a governing party of a large member state of the european union, the vice-chairman of the catholic league polish family - now vice-chairman of poland's major governing party - is openly calling for violence against homosexuals who want to exercise their right to demonstrate in warsaw. it is unacceptable that senior representatives of the government of a member state of the union should behave in this way. (applause from the centre) i take advantage of the presence of prime minister verhofstadt, who is considered one of the most tolerant and most consistent defenders of the civil rights of european citizens, to appeal to you as president of the house: let us think about how we, as the european parliament, can face the fact that the right in europe is trying every day a little more to test how far it can go in provoking civil society. it is enough that we can no longer tolerate the provocations - whether in belgium by the flemish bloc, in france by the front national, or in poland by the catholic league of the polish family or the nazis in germany. let us discuss how we can put a stop to this. (applause from the centre and the right)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union now has 455 million inhabitants, many millions more than the united states and russia combined. soon it will be nearly 500 million people in 25 now, then 27 and later perhaps even more. i must say that when i leave europe and return, i always have a deep feeling of gratitude for being back in europe, because there is no continent with such a great diversity, including cultural diversity, as the european continent and the european union. but this continent is also a difficult continent, if we consider the number of parties represented here in the european parliament and the fact that we have to succeed time and again in reaching common conclusions. and i say on behalf of the european people's party that the treaty of nice cannot be the basis for us to lead these 500 million people into a good future! we have to keep moving. that is why we welcome today's debate. the aim of a debate is to listen to each other, to understand each other and hopefully to reach a common conclusion. i therefore welcome the fact that mr verhofstadt is here today, and it has always been the three benelux countries that have given europe great impetus. i hope and expect that at the end of this process of strengthening the substance and the principles of the european union, the three benelux countries - not just belgium, not just luxembourg, but also the netherlands - will also be at the forefront of european development. the european people's party said immediately after nice: nice is not enough for us, and we had a very frank discussion with president chirac in strasbourg in december 2000. we, the european people's party, at our congress in january 2001 adopted a resolution which said: we want to go on, we want a new conference, we want, if possible, a constitution, a constitutional treaty. perhaps the term constitution was too demanding for many people. it may be, and we need to analyze it rationally. i would remind you of what jean-claude juncker said last thursday when he was rightfully awarded the charlemagne prize of the city of aachen: it is not possible for the heads of government of the european union countries to talk badly about the european union and brussels from monday to saturday and then expect a good result in referendums or referenda on sunday. this is not possible, and that is why we are calling on all the governments of the european union to present this europe as it is - with its positive developments, but also, of course, with its negative ones. we in europe have become accustomed to speaking only negatively and badly. for many people, the glass is always half empty, instead of half full. mr prime minister, you mentioned that on 1 may 2004 eight central european countries which were communist countries - estonia, latvia and lithuania were occupied nations by the soviet union - became members of the european union, as did poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary and slovenia. it is not the european union that has expanded, but the attraction of the european union. their strength in peace, freedom, democracy and the rule of law was the attraction for these countries, so that they eventually became members of the european union. we should present this as a very great success of european development. let's take the euro. we are rightly discussing the stability of the euro. many things, including those connected with reform, are portrayed negatively, and this is a major challenge. but let us imagine that there is no single european currency. where would we be today in the process of globalisation if the countries of the european union were always devaluing their currencies in order to gain export advantages in the european union? it would be a confrontation between europeans, and that would deprive us of any chance of being competitive on a world scale. so let us speak positively about europe. i just had a conversation with the dutch minister for europe. it was very revealing to me that he said that after an internet poll in the netherlands, many of those who participated said: we need more europe, for example in internal security, in agreements on immigration or in the big asylum issues. it is therefore our common task to find a way of translating the substance and principles of the constitution into political reality and, first of all, into legal reality, through discussions and then decisions. i welcome it, mr prime minister, if you say that the ratification process should continue. we also express our gratitude to estonia for ratifying the constitution a few days ago. we encourage finland - the group chairmen will be going to helsinki tomorrow - to continue the ratification process. i would also like to say to our polish friends and partners that you have a point on the energy question. you can rightly expect solidarity when it comes to energy supplies. solidarity applies to all the countries of the european union, but poland must also show solidarity when it comes to our future, on the basis of a treaty, a constitution, which gives us a perspective for the future. solidarity is not a one-way street, it is a two-way street and it applies to all europeans. (applause from the centre) let me conclude by saying this: our group firmly believes in subsidiarity, and subsidiarity means local, regional, national and european level. the municipal level and the lower levels in the sense of 'close to the people' should act when they can act best. but the european union must act when the nation state can no longer act because it has become too small to solve the problems. we have therefore been given the task of implementing the path, the principles and the principles of the constitutional treaty. we must find solutions together in all 25 countries and here in the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i thank you very much for your speech, mr verhofstadt. you said we needed courage. i thought your speech was courageous. i have rarely heard a member of the european council express such criticism of the institution as you have done here. the crisis in europe is also partly a crisis of european leaders. i promise you, i'll use this phrase often, and i'll say it in the future. this is a crisis of european leaders minus juncker and verhofstadt. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by mr von der vring, mr von der vring and mr von der vring. a commitment not just to deepen integration or to expand. they are making a commitment to a fact which should be taken for granted by a head of government, namely that he stands by what he says and what he does. all the heads of government who sit in the council and take part in these summits signed this treaty in rome with great solemnity - there was no more solemnity - and some of these ladies and gentlemen have gone home and pretend not to know where they have been. this is part of the crisis of this constitution. it's an honor to hear you say so clearly today. i can tell you that there are senior figures in other institutions in europe who i would have liked to have had a speech like the one you gave today. (applause from the centre) let me address two specific points you have raised, mr verhofstadt. the question of whether we can achieve 20 yeses and how we deal with the two noes is an important one. we have 15 states now. the finnish presidency of the council is going to say symbolically - and we can only welcome this emphatically - 'no, for us the constitution is not dead'. mr. vanhanen does what you do. my government says it signed this constitutional treaty; we want our parliament to decide. that is the logical and normal way. the estonians ratified the constitution a few weeks ago. why should we not get the number of 20 together so that the agreement of the heads of state or government you are quoting - not the agreement of the european parliament, but the agreement of the heads of state or government - comes into force. that is why we must not abandon this constitutional treaty, and that is why it is negligent for high-ranking representatives of the european union to say 'let's think about something else' instead of proceeding to the end of the ratification process. that was an important statement you made here in parliament. the second point you have raised is also of particular importance. the question of how we in the european union assess what has happened differs from political camp to political camp and from national to national public opinion on internal affairs. but i'll tell you one thing. i also spoke to my dutch colleague, mr atzo nicolaï, this morning, mr poettering. the polls in the netherlands show that the dutch are overwhelmingly in favour of the european union. the same people who said no in the referendum are in favour of more europe when asked specifically whether they want more. they want more social protection, more environmental protection, they want more stability. why did they not vote for this constitution, which provides for more social protection, more stability and more efficiency? there must be a reason. of course, it has its reasons in the deficits of the eu, but it also has its reasons in the domestic politics of these countries. i am quite sure that if jacques chirac had told the french people that i would resign if they adopted this constitution, there would have been an overwhelming majority in favour of the constitution in france. i'm sure you will. (cheers and applause) perhaps this is the chance that the constitution will be adopted in france. it is quite clear that there is a link between the depression in some member states and the rejection of this constitution by the population. you can't lie about that. but because it is, it also sharpens the eyes of the people who have said yes. it also highlights the fact that courage pays off, because there was a european leader who tied his political destiny to the constitution, jean-claude juncker, who told luxembourgers: 'i believe that more europe is the only chance to keep our small country as strong socially, economically and ecologically as it is today in the long term. that is my firm belief. if you disagree, if you believe that this europe must be organised differently, then you must find another prime minister. other yes, he has linked his fate to it and has thus won his people to this constitution in a referendum, a few weeks after the "no" vote in france and the netherlands. i think you're right, mr. courthouse. europe is lacking in courage. it lacks the courage to say: i have a conviction, and i am prepared to link my political destiny to that conviction. there have been decisions by members of the european council who have stood before their parliaments and said: we must send troops somewhere, even if the vast majority of the population disagrees with us, because there is no other way. they could, they did, they did it with conviction; i'm not here to judge. i would have liked to have seen the same energy used in defending the european constitution and in saying: i am fighting for my convictions as i have fought for other projects. we would be a long way ahead in europe. i thank you, and i firmly believe that if there are more court cities in europe, we will make better progress. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very pleased that there is once again a statesman who has a vision of europe, because part of our problem is this 'little-little', this self-doubt, this halfheartedness, this outright fear of further steps towards european unification. that is why people are so disoriented and suspicious, if even leaders of states do not commit themselves to europe. therefore, mr verhofstadt, i welcome you and thank you for the vision you have presented in your book and here in parliament. you have reaffirmed that the core of the european idea is political union and not just a single market. the european economic community was only a detour, because the defence community has not become a reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i very much welcome the fact that we may adopt a kind of 'second messina declaration' next spring. it will not be called that, but the essence could be the same: a renewed commitment to the eu's objectives and major projects for the coming years and decades. we also need projects that are attractive to people. we're back to energy policy. we know that in 20 years, 70 percent of our energy will be imported from unstable areas. why don't we have the courage, as jeremy rifkin also suggests, to start a third industrial revolution here in europe with a solar hydrogen economy. we need all the coal, oil, gas, it's business as usual. but this new basis for a new energy revolution would be something that many people would also welcome, and i would advise you to decide on this at the summit in june.
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is indeed commendable that your recent book and your speech here today are helping to end this fatal pause in thinking, because it is - as many colleagues have rightly said - high time that the debate on the future of europe was finally resumed. i personally share your vision of a federal united states of europe. however, as a member of the convention on fundamental rights and also of the constitutional convention, it has become clear to me in the relevant debates how far-fetched this is. the idea of how far european integration should go is extremely contradictory, not only between states but also between political forces, and even within political families, including my own. in view of this, i would never have expected at the beginning of the constitutional convention the far-reaching steps that would be possible to deepen integration, how much more democracy, civil rights, strengthening of the social state. the constitution represents a major step forward for europe and at the same time reflects a political consensus that has been reached. it is not an old, inedible crumb, as one of my own party members recently said with contempt. both progress and consensus should not be jeopardised. that is why, mr prime minister, i do not share your concept of the eurozone countries, nor the variant of the so-called pioneer group of mr sarkozy. i think that both models are unrealistic, because last year two of the founding states clearly lost the title of 'pioneers of europe'. the fact that commission president barroso has still not understood the signs of the times is shown by his so-called citizen-centred agenda, which in my view amounts to nothing less than a return to nice. i am convinced, mr president, that europe can only be sustainable if it is a social europe, and i share the view of jean-claude juncker. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's a pity you didn't say much.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the situation of prisoners in guantánamo.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first, let's say that terrorism is a dehumanizing thing, and the united states has been terribly affected by terrorism. we have to hold that up as a headline for all criticism. we must see that this is a terror against our values and our legal order and that there is concern about the threat. but on the other hand, the defence of terrorism must not violate its own values, because then terrorism has won. this has led to a wide-ranging international debate and has led to changes. after my visit, i am convinced that the situation and the images we know from 2001 and 2002 no longer exist. i also do not believe that there is direct physical torture, as allegedly happened there, although of course i have no proof of that. and senator mccain, for example, with his initiatives, shows that there is a great effort and a great debate going on within the united states against torture and similar things. so this is not a typical european attitude towards america, but a discussion that we have in all our societies. on the other hand - and here i agree with the commissioners and the president-in-office - international humanitarian law and human rights must be respected. the risk of our values is that after release, a person may relapse. but if we give up our values, we give up our freedom. in dubio pro reo is one of the tenets of our civilization. in the situation we are in today, the risk is much less if people are kept there than if new suicide bombers are constantly found, because that leads to mobilization on the other side. from a risk assessment point of view, that would probably not be the right way to go. even if someone is acquitted, they're kept in prison. if it is said that 20% of the money has been spent, the rest is not yet said, it will be kept there. if a new prison is built of concrete, in which there are no more windows, then we have a problem! the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the new treaty of rome, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the new treaty of rome. i think that the national states are overwhelmed here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. guantánamo has become a symbol of the disregard for human rights and the rule of law. we europeans are not afraid to criticize this, but we should not only be concerned with interfering in situations which are incompatible with human rights and the rule of law, but we should ask ourselves where our responsibility lies and where we can contribute to a solution. even people declared innocent by the americans cannot return to their home countries. the united states rightly excludes the possibility of returning these people to countries where they may be subject to torture or persecution. we must all answer the question of what should be done with these people instead. the fate of the people in guantanamo is a matter of concern to all of us and should not leave us indifferent. finally - and this should be emphasized on this day - european governments have also been involved in the extradition and in some cases even in the interrogation of prisoners at guantánamo bay. this is also true, for example, of the case of murat kurnaz. if we are serious about demanding the permanent closure of guantanamo bay, we should follow our words with action.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, we will continue to monitor and deal with the guantánamo issue with the council's attention and responsibility. the european union is also concerned about the situation in the middle east, and the situation in the middle east is also concerned about the situation in the middle east. the fact that we are making this relationship in all openness and with a purposeful approach to controversial issues is a matter of course. we will undoubtedly continue the policy we pursued during the austrian presidency and before that - i mentioned some of the key points in the introduction - . we will also be addressing these issues at the forthcoming summit on 22 june. in conclusion, i would like to point out that the presidency has been committed to ensuring that the investigative bodies cooperate as fully as possible in all investigations concerning suspected cases of illegal flights and secret prisons. we hope that these investigations can be completed as soon as possible.
member of the commission. madam president, president-in-office, we all share a deep concern about the question of human rights, because human rights are a universal principle and have universal applications. i broadly agree with all the key elements mentioned here in the debate. on the one hand, acts of terrorism constitute a clear violation of basic fundamental rights; on the other hand, all anti-terrorist measures must comply with international legal standards of humanitarian and human rights law. every person detained must be able to receive due process and a fair trial and there also has to be a strict ban on torture and ill-treatment in all circumstances. therefore, we all feel that guantánamo should be closed as soon as possible. it is also a matter of the credibility of the european union in the arab world. however, it must be said that we do not apply double standards. the european union has a common position: last week, all 25 member states clearly spoke out, and we have already raised the subject of guantánamo with the us administration on many occasions. as mrs plassnik said, dialogue will be continued on the basis of this common position. the matter will certainly be raised with our american partner at the forthcoming us-eu summit, as well as the wider issue of the need to respect our common values in the fight against terror. it is in our common interest to find a rapid and common solution.
the debate was closed by the tabling of seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) and rule 108 (5). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the improvement of relations between the european union and the united states under the transatlantic partnership agreement [2005/2056 (ini) ] (a6-0173/2006) and the report by erika mann, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the eu/usa transatlantic economic relationship [2005/2082 (ini) ] (a6-0131/2006).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe - also for the reasons we have discussed earlier - that the transatlantic relationship is of the utmost importance. it is a question of the functioning of nato, which remains indispensable to the collective security of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this transatlantic community is also a community of values, despite all the discussions we have on individual points. but things are still a little bit different. i found it remarkable that 14 days ago, at his own request, russian foreign minister lavrov was in the committee on foreign affairs and proposed that the partnership and cooperation agreement with russia be extended next year and that deeper institutional links be established between the russian and eu institutions, including parliaments. the european union has treaties with almost everyone in the world, as does the united states of america. there are no treaties between the united states and the european union. this will have consequences eventually. if i look at the preparations for the summit, which are proceeding with all the good efforts of the council and the commission, it will again be a discussion on many individual points on which there is agreement or disagreement, but the big picture is missing, there is no framework in which this can take place. a framework from which we are also able to engage the american congress. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights and democracy. such an agreement would provide a framework - and mrs mann will explain this in much more detail later on in the field of economic policy - which would also allow agreements to be reached more quickly in the event of tensions and conflicts of interest. i think this is extremely important for the reasons i have just mentioned. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i do not want a bilateral relationship to destroy the multilateral approach, such as the wto, so that i am not misunderstood. but this can lead us to a community of action for global and regional cooperation based on shared values, shared interests and shared values. the iran issue is one of those issues where we can only achieve something if we do it together to peacefully prevent someone from making nuclear bombs. we must also find peaceful solutions in the middle east, where we share common interests and values. we can only do this in the context of this dialogue, which goes beyond the nato dialogue. the transatlantic legislators' dialogue, which is currently very slow, could be extended to a transatlantic assembly. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. in order to make this work, we as the european parliament should, as a first step, set up an early warning system in washington, and vice versa, so that we can be alerted to legislation at an early stage. the european parliament's rapporteurs should be able to talk to their american counterparts in congress to get things moving. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we should take a critical position. the united states has taken a position on the international court of justice, on climate change, on iraq and many other issues which we must take up with the present administration. but this criticism of individual cases, of individual points or of a particular government must not be the reason for widening the transatlantic divide. the council, the commission and the american administration should therefore finally find the strength to go beyond the technology of the day and to put this alliance on a broader and deeper basis.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank all the speakers for their work and for the work they have done. i have the great pleasure, as i often do, of preparing the accompanying report for the committee on international trade, and i am thus concentrating more on the external economy and economic issues. as in the past, i share the views of my colleague elmar brok. we have been working together for many years - as have many colleagues in this house - and we have always had the great support of this house, for which i would like to express my gratitude. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission shares the view that we are starting from reality. we already have a transatlantic market. it exists. we just often don't notice it. we always talk about what we have to do, and we always focus entirely on the trade barriers that we have, and those trade barriers are in the news every day, but what we have achieved in a positive way is often overlooked. that is why this report says: let us just face reality. how much trade is actually going on between the european union and the united states? what investments are taking place? and also: what is the volume of trade between european and american companies? and there it is . the number is enormous. i don't want to bore you with this, but she's huge. the number of jobs that depend on it is really extremely high. just the ones we know on every page -- there's a lot, a lot more, because we haven't collected a lot of data -- there's seven million alone. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we are always so proud and think that it is a purely european or purely american company. that's not the case. the interdependence of the two companies is about 40%. that's a good example. go to mtu! i have had the pleasure of seeing this in my own constituency. so you can see, for example, when the planes are being repaired, the bands are running parallel, so to speak, one airbus, one boeing. but that's just one example. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. these barriers are not, as many out there believe, attac has put a little bit of a mood there, about a free trade zone, it's about removing the technical barriers, as we've been doing for many years. we're sticking to our standards. we stick to our precautionary principle. we will continue to uphold the rules of the internal market. the sovereignty of the eu and the member states is not affected. and it is not a naive proposal, because we know that there will of course be further trade disputes. it's normal, it's natural, you know? they're the two biggest trading blocs we have. of course, the interests clash. that's the way it should be. we have conflicts in the eu, and we do not panic every time. it's only natural. some of these we can solve in the world trade round, some of them we cannot. we haven't been able to solve hamon for years, so we're paying for it. there are problems on the american side, too. for example, americans have a hard time recognizing unpasteurized milk because they see it as a health problem. what about your precautionary principle? well, that's the way it is. let's live with it. but there are many other barriers that we need to remove. that is what i am asking in this report. there is one point i shall come to in a moment. i would like to express my sincere thanks to my colleagues in the committee, to all the rapporteurs, to all the shadow rapporteurs, to the commission, which has always worked very well with me and all my colleagues, but also, of course, to the council, to the ngos, the think tanks, the trade unions, the companies and all those involved, and to my own group. my own group has some problems with the term 'accessible' in certain places - i am referring to the green group - because it always sounds like a free trade area. that is why i am proposing that we vote separately tomorrow. i would suggest that we just take those terms and the numbers that are in them out. i hope i can get the house to support me in this. then everyone can breathe, and we have a reasonable basis. i hope we'll have the full support of the house. madam president, i know you're nervous. still, two points. i have to mention them. i'll take bioethanol and give it to you orally. i forgot to put bioethanol and biodiesel in it. so tomorrow i will say: and diesel. i hope that i can get your support here too. and that's basically it. thank you very much.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. every partnership has its ups and downs, its strengths and weaknesses. the most important thing is that the basis is right, and despite all the disagreements, even despite all the frustrations of america's friends over some of the policies of the current administration, the basis is right. the president-in-office said that the economic exchange is strong; people-to-people contacts are running; the commission has also been active in the field of education and training, and has been involved in the development of the european community's education and training policy. but there is still room for improvement in bilateral cooperation, and the new transatlantic agenda was well designed, but it has not become the real foundation and needs to be revived. that is why the liberal group supports the brok report's proposal for a transatlantic partnership agreement, as well as erika mann's vision for the transatlantic market. but an agreement will only have added value if it is lived out. this means that the american side - especially in congress - must also show a real commitment to this. progress is essential in the face of the current and long-term challenges we face. we cannot afford to fail to exploit our common potential as great democracies. this is why a partnership agreement can be a step in the right direction. let's do it now! i am glad, moreover, that we are holding this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i shall concentrate on the brok report. we want to see clear language on the international criminal court and on the question of food safety in the report. i think it is important to ensure that the european point of view is taken into account in an appropriate way. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. so it is questionable whether it makes sense to enter into such an agreement with the current administration. finally, i would like to mention a point relating to environmental policy, which is of particular importance to my group. i would like to draw the attention of all the members to the new documentary by al gore, an inconvenient truth, which draws the attention of our friends in the united states to a very, very important issue which should also be given greater prominence in this report, namely global warming, which affects us all. i would like to quote al gore, who said: "i even believe that there is a chance that within the next two years even bush and cheney will be forced to change their position on this crisis".
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not my group is in favour of increasing trade with the united states, just as we are in favour of increasing trade with africa, south america and australia. but mrs mann's report calls for a 'transatlantic market without barriers' and that is a free trade area. trade must not be an end in itself for the attainment of high rates of return, but one of the instruments for ensuring the supply of goods and services to the population, for creating jobs, for promoting social development and prosperity. the first step is to check whether the potential partner is in compliance with internationally agreed standards, for example on social and labour protection, environmental protection, protection of human rights and whether or not he accepts the institution created for this purpose. three small examples: firstly, there are fundamental differences of opinion on gmos and hormone-treated meat. the citizens of the european union do not want that. but in the united states, it's perfectly legal to trade in it. secondly, while public services and comprehensive social protection systems are an elementary part of the political culture in the european union, this is not the case in the usa. i ask you: how can such important interests of the citizens and of the european union be safeguarded in an integrated economic area? thirdly, is it a distortion of competition or not if the united states does not sign the kyoto protocol? of course i did! because then you can produce cheaper at the expense of the environment. and the decisions of the wto arbitration tribunal, such as the cotton export subsidies, are simply ignored by the usa. in conclusion, parliament recently adopted the agnoletto report, which clearly states that the european union should include a human rights clause in all its treaties with third countries. the united states is waging wars against international law, such as the iraq war, and does not recognise the international criminal court. it is holding prisoners of war in inhuman conditions in prisons such as guantanamo bay. i believe that this parliament is completely discredited if it takes the path towards a free trade area without the united states first meeting the internationally agreed standards and norms.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that even the president-in-office and commissioner ferrero-waldner are still here. last weekend, there were violent disturbances against peaceful protesters in moscow. i think it is indeed necessary for us as the european union to say that this cannot happen in a country which is currently chairing the committee of ministers of the council of europe. it is a strong partner of the european union. we will be demonstrating in brussels and in many places in europe on friday afternoon against the human rights violations committed against peaceful demonstrators. next weekend, warsaw will host the gay pride parade, and i've heard statements from officials in warsaw that there may be rioting here as well, and that anyone who comes will have to expect violence. i will march and raise the flag for the rights of all in the european union guaranteed under article 13. i hope that many will join in saying: no place for intolerance in the european union! let's show the flag!
the next item is the report by helmuth markov, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on trade and poverty: designing trade policy measures to make the fight against poverty as successful as possible [2006/2031 (ini) ] (a6-0179/2006).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. of course, i would first of all like to thank all the staff who helped me to prepare my report. i would also like to thank my colleagues in my committee, the committee on women's rights and gender equality and the committee on development, who have contributed very constructive amendments to this report. the report also contains initial proposals on how trade policy can and should be directed to contribute to solving the problem of poverty. i am pleased that this text makes it quite clear that action must follow certain rules in order to be effective as a meaningful instrument for poverty reduction and prosperity development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not based on the principle of subsidiarity. in today's world, neither is the supply of healthcare for all people guaranteed, nor are the opportunities offered by trade distributed equitably - neither geographically between countries or regions, nor between individual market players. this inequality is one of the causes of poverty and its reproduction. this is a problem that exists primarily, but not exclusively, in the developing countries. the proverbial invisible hand of the market cannot solve this problem, even within a developed economic area such as the european union. the further the policy moves away from the shaping of the economic order and leaves it to the discretion of market-liberal forces, the further the cohesion objectives are pushed away, all the more so as it simultaneously ignores social rights, democratic participation and the protection of our environment and fails to take sufficient account of regional and local conditions and particularities. at the global level, where the differences in development and distribution are even more serious and fundamental, this is multiplied. if the current policy of unconditional rapid liberalisation continues under pressure, the millennium development goal of halving the number of hungry people by 2015 will not be achieved. the task of politics is to create the conditions which will enable a society to develop peacefully, without exclusion, and with prosperity. a policy of opening up borders to the international market can be part of this. the commission has also been able to identify the areas where the community's economic policy is likely to be most effective, such as the development of the internal market, the creation of a market economy, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, the development of the internal market, and the development of the internal market. the high level of external debt and dependence on credit considerably limits this capacity. in countries where these conditions were not present, accelerated liberalization has led to deindustrialization, environmental degradation and growing dependency, and has exacerbated poverty among the population. i can only refer to a few aspects of the report. the opportunity for independent development, for industrialization, must be given to all countries in the same way as it was given to the present-day industrialized countries. this includes the right to decide for itself when, how far and whether a country wants to open its markets to goods and services. it is also provided for in the wto rules. since the signing of the wto agreements, profits for producers of raw materials have been falling steadily to the point where more and more small and mediumsized enterprises have had to be abandoned in both the south and the north. at the same time, these same rules are encouraging monoculture farming, which, while bringing huge profits to the agro-industry, has devastating consequences for the environment and employment. this is agriculture that is ultimately destroying its own livelihood. instead, policies should aim to preserve biodiversity through sustainable economic practices, both through rules and financial support. furthermore, it is more than questionable whether public services can be provided on a scale sufficient to satisfy the fundamental right to a dignified life on the basis of purely market-based structures. it's about such simple but necessary things as access to quality water, health, care, education, training. finally, in areas where the conditions for liberalising market sectors are in place, it is necessary to ensure that international standards on social, labour and environmental protection are compulsorily applied. these and many other important points have been incorporated in the report before you. the commission and the council are invited to examine the parliament's proposals and take them into account in their policy making.
member of the commission. mr president, i find myself very strongly in accord with those who have spoken in this short but important debate. its themes have been those of free trade and fair trade. those are the twin pillars that support our policy objectives. whilst bilateral trade agreements have their place, it is multilateral trade negotiations in a multilateral framework for the international trading system that, in our view, are best able to bring equity and balance to the international trading system. that is why the doha development agenda is so important. it has at its heart the ideal of free trade contributing to poverty reduction in the world. as somebody once said, the victory of ideals has to be organised and, as one of the speakers tonight said, we want to see an organised liberalisation of trade. we do not want to see a jungle in which the rules of that jungle operate to the detriment of developing countries and the poor in the world. that is what the commission is pursuing on behalf of member states and i strongly believe that this report will guide us in these continuing efforts to achieve trade justice in the world, which is why i welcome it so strongly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on paediatric medicinal products and amending regulation (eec) no 1768/92, directives 2001/20/ec and 2001/83/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004 [15763/3/2005 - c6-0087/2006 - 2004/0217 (cod) ] rapporteur: erika mann (a6-0171/2006).
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking and congratulating mrs grossetête, rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on her report. i also thank the members of the committee for their support of the proposal. i would also like to underline the dedicated work of the austrian presidency in this context. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of own resources. we must be cautious about new legislation, but this proposal is necessary. more than half of the medicines given to children in the european union today have never been tested for this use. this is because paediatric medicines often have a small market share and clinical trials can be very expensive. in practical terms, this means that doctors who prescribe a medicine to a child do not always know whether it will work or what side effects it may have. the new regulation will solve this problem in the interests of the children. it encourages cutting-edge research in this field and promotes the development and authorisation of high-quality and effective paediatric medicines. i would like to emphasize two points raised in the debate in parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the european parliament has rightly pointed out the importance of the transparency directive. i fully agree with you that decisions by national authorities on the price and reimbursement of paediatric medicines must not delay the availability of these medicines. the member states are responsible for setting prices and reimbursing costs. however, the commission cannot accept any departure from the procedural rules laid down in the transparency directive. we have therefore intensified our efforts to monitor more closely and to enforce more effectively the proper implementation of the directive in all member states. i also founded the pharmaceutical forum with my colleague kyprianou. the aim of this framework is to find solutions, together with the member states and interested groups, to pressing issues in the pharmaceutical sector, including the aspects of price and reimbursement. the european parliament has also raised the important issue of carcinogens, herbicides and substances harmful to reproduction. i share your view that we must be extremely careful in all areas when dealing with such dangerous substances. i believe, however, that the amendments which seek to prohibit such substances as excipients in medicinal products in general under this regulation are problematic for two reasons. firstly, the regulation on paediatric medicines can only regulate the excipients in paediatric medicines. the rules on excipients should be the same for all medicinal products. secondly, it cannot be ruled out that such excipients are indispensable in certain important medicinal products. the commission believes that this area of concern needs to be thoroughly scientifically investigated again before we decide on possible action. the commission therefore intends to request an opinion from the european medicines agency on the use of such substances as excipients in medicinal products for human use. this opinion shall be forwarded to the european parliament and to the council. within six months of the date of the opinion, the commission shall inform the european parliament and the council of the measures it intends to take. i have sent a statement of this content to the secretariat of the european parliament so that the text can be made available to all members and published. the commission's position is set out in the annex. in conclusion, let me stress that this regulation is a good example of better regulation that meets the objectives of health protection and the promotion of innovation in equal measure. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the proposal will improve the protection of the health of our children, while promoting innovation and the competitiveness of the european pharmaceutical industry. i thank you for your support of the proposal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to congratulate mrs grossetête on the agreement she has reached between all the groups and with the council and the commission. this is the end of a process which, in my view, has taken as long as six years. six years ago in strasbourg we first discussed the problem with experts and a possible solution, and now we are at the end of the legislative process. i thank everyone, the commissioner, the staff who have contributed to this, but especially the socialist group's shadow rapporteur, mrs roth-behrendt, who has contributed a great deal and who unfortunately cannot be here today. i wish her well. the present proposal is a contribution to the solution of a serious problem. i myself worked as a doctor in a children's clinic and found out what a tragedy it is for children, parents and doctors that many medicines necessary for the treatment of children are not approved. i've had problems myself, but not as many problems as other colleagues and other families where children have died because they weren't given approved drugs or because, for example, children were infected with hiv and too low a dose caused these children to become resistant to the drugs. that is why it is good that we now have this regulation. i particularly welcome the fact that the council and the commission have taken up the proposal to establish the mice programme for medicines which are no longer covered by patents. the first reading did not satisfy me so much as the uniform six-month deadline. but it is important that we start now, and if we see that the six months are not appropriate in all cases, then we may have to improve again. but we have to act fast now. that is why i am very pleased that mrs grossetête has convinced the council and the commission to accept article 18. because if we hadn't, the first drugs would have been released in 2009 because of the incentive system. we will now see positive aspects immediately after the adoption of the regulation, and this is important because we need to act quickly to improve children's health.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i too would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, particularly on her negotiating skills and on the good result we have today. the regulation on the safety of medicines for children is a great success for patients in europe. that regulation was overdue; it is now important that it be implemented quickly. the liberal group therefore supports the good compromise which makes it possible to reach an agreement with the council at second reading. we have had a long and extensive debate in parliament on the extension of patents for research-based medicines, and in some cases renewal has been negotiated for every single month. some colleagues have been excited about the potential additional profits for the pharmaceutical industry. this unspeakable debate is over. the safety of medicines for children is a matter of concern and must be guaranteed. if the research-based pharmaceutical companies need an extra incentive to develop their products, then let them have it. in the end, economic logic demands it. if this incentive also helps to strengthen research in europe and brings back research-oriented pharmaceutical companies to europe, then that is a positive thing.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
vice-president of the commission. in view of the risks of carcinogens, mutagenic substances and substances with a reproductive effect, the commission will instruct the committee for medicinal products for human use of the european medicines agency to draw up an opinion on the use of these categories of substances as excipients in medicinal products for human use; the legal basis for this is article 5 (3) and article 57 (1) (p) of regulation (ec) no 726/2004 of 31 march 2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency. the commission will forward the opinion of the committee for medicinal products for human use to the european parliament and the council. within six months of the opinion of the committee for medicinal products for human use, the commission shall inform the european parliament and the council of the action it intends to take in response to that opinion. (the wording of these three paragraphs has been expressly approved by the commission and contains the commission's statement on cmr substances).
the next item is the report by mr jorgo chatzimarkakis, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing a framework programme for competitiveness and innovation (2007-2013) (com (2005) 0121 - c6-0098/2005 - 2005/0050 (cod)) (a6-0180/2006).
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the european parliament sincerely for the strong support that the commission has found for this programme here. the very active involvement of parliament and your amendments have contributed very much to the constructive development of the commission's proposal. the recent forecasts for economic growth and employment in europe are quite encouraging. however, we should not lose sight of the basic problems and weaknesses. in the newly formulated strategy for growth and jobs of february 2005, the commission clearly identified the challenge. the commission's proposal for the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, which was adopted in april last year, should be a signal that the commission is willing to follow up the analysis with the necessary and effective steps to achieve more growth and employment. we want to make a link between the instruments and the policy objectives with this programme. innovation is key. for us, however, innovation is more than the commercialisation of research results. of course, we must ensure that research also produces marketable results, but innovation goes beyond that. our aim must be to make better economic use of the knowledge and potential of the knowledge society as a whole. this means innovation in design, marketing, logistics and business organisation. the broad support for the cip demonstrates the consensus on what needs to be done to strengthen europe's competitiveness. the fact that we are about to adopt the programme at first reading today underlines this all the more clearly. the programme is also the first major community programme to be adopted for the period of the new financial perspective. a clear signal of support for the european parliament, for the agenda, for growth and employment. the speed with which agreement was reached is due in particular to the work of the rapporteur, mr chatzimarkakis, and his shadow rapporteur, mrs thomsen, mr vakalis and mr turmes, who have achieved a great deal by working really well and flexibly with the presidency. the commission has followed this process closely and i would like to express on behalf of the commission my full support for the amended proposal. we have now reached the end of a journey we have travelled together and which i believe we have successfully done together.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is already a historic moment today, because it seems to be the first framework programme of the european union to be adopted at first reading. i would like to thank the commission very much for the excellent report, otherwise it would not have been possible. i am also grateful for the open negotiations, which involved four directorates-general. i would like to thank the austrian presidency in particular for putting the issue of innovation at the forefront and for adopting it during this presidency. i would like to mention in particular josef mandl and matthias martinek, who have succeeded in allaying the concerns of so many member states. but of course my thanks also go to my colleagues in this parliament. it was a very trusting cooperation with mr vakalis, with mrs thomsen, with mr turmes, but also with the authors of the opinions, and above all with mr werner langen. i would like to thank the members of the committee on budgets very much. without the real commitment to extract the 4 billion to maintain the blockade against the council decision, this programme would not have come into being in this form, because a very large part of what we extracted as parliament went into innovation, went into this cip. i thank you very much, especially mr böge. what's changed now? what was the european parliament's record? the first thing we wanted to do was to put the programme at the service of small and mediumsized enterprises. these are the main stakeholders, those who have to drive innovation in europe, and we have put them at the forefront by removing many of the bureaucratic obstacles, which may have been obvious at one point or another, for example by means of a new vademecum. the commission will create a cip file to enable applicants to obtain information on the cip quickly and easily and to follow the right path to the grant. and then we introduced a new principle. i am very grateful to all those involved. this principle is called no wrong entry. there is no wrong entry, no wrong door in the commission for a medium-sized enterprise. if he has a question, he will not be turned away but will be directed to the right place. this is a new principle, it is an important contribution to simplifying procedures, it is an important contribution to cutting red tape, and i am convinced that the commission will ensure that inquiries are always answered by a competent consultant. but we have also made a huge boost to innovation with this programme, because we have tried to close the gap in the so-called precede phase, that is, the phase before a product, an idea, enters the market, by linking the programme to the seventh framework programme for research. we are in the committees negotiating the seventh framework programme for research and i have been in close contact with the rapporteur, mr jerzy buzek, who is here today for this purpose and will be speaking shortly, although he was not actually scheduled to speak at the cip. i am very pleased that this cooperation has worked so well and that we have been able to combine the one with the other programme so well. it must be said that this programme covers all the essential elements of the lisbon agenda, which i would much rather call the liverpool agenda, because liverpool fc were still 3-0 down in the champions league final at halftime and then won the final. that is the situation we are in. but still: the major themes of innovation, competitiveness and energy are all covered in this programme. when we talk about innovation, we must also define innovation properly. innovation is now being put on everything. everything is called innovation. but what is innovation? innovation is not invention. invention is very close to research, invention is the process of putting money into knowledge, putting money into knowledge. but innovation is the reverse process! making money off knowledge! and here we europeans have a big gap, we have a catch-up. we have wonderful ideas. we're just getting less and less able to turn these wonderful ideas into tangible products. the magnetic glider -- you all know it -- the transrapid was invented back in 1934, and we haven't been able to implement it in europe. the computer invented by konrad zuse is practically no longer produced in the european union. the nuclear divide, a subject perhaps not liked by all, comes from the european union. the internet was basically invented in the european union. his flower, his application flower, has found it elsewhere. or the great mp3 that was invented in germany and is 90% commercialized outside the eu. the cip programme is designed to enable inventions to be made and their practical applications to be made in europe. it's the only way we'll get to lisbon, the only way we'll get ahead. thank you again to all involved!
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his cooperative approach to finding solutions, even in the face of the need to reduce the overall budget. this is a great example of cooperation. and i would also like to thank the commission, commissioner verheugen, who has shown with this programme that he is serious about promoting innovation and small and mediumsized enterprises. the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which i shall be reporting on in a minute, was adopted on 1 december 2005, before the financial framework was established. in this respect, our wishes were far greater than what was finally realized. we have made peace; we support the proposals for the de-bureaucratization of programmes, for the concentration of support, for innovation in small and mediumsized enterprises. this has been included in the chatzimarkis report and the members of the economic committee will give their full support to all this.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not we now have the report on the enlargement of the eurozone. it is based on the second commission report, which assesses the conditions and assessments of individual member states. i would like to thank commissioner almunia for his clear report and his clear position, and i say this because a year ago when the stability and growth pact was revised i thought the commission was too lenient. you have made your position clear, and i want to thank you very much. the commission's position is that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the euro as a whole is successful because it has ensured the stability of the currency internally with low inflation rates and externally in relation to other currencies. this is only possible if we respect the conditions of the maastricht treaty, but also the stability and growth pact. after the two largest countries in the euro area, germany and france, have for years violated the stability pact and have not had the internal strength to carry out the necessary reforms, it is necessary that we, at the present stage, when it comes to the admission of member states with a derogation, strictly observe the conditions of the maastricht treaty. we have 12 euro members and 11 states with a derogation: the uk and denmark have an opt-out system. this is another matter; they can decide again whether they want to. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has done this with care and intensity, and i would like to thank it very much for that. the difference, which was not clear to all colleagues in parliament - including the discussions in the economic affairs committee - is that under the 1997 regulations, both the euro-zone members and the countries with a derogation are subject to budgetary and financial surveillance and economic policy coordination. in the euro area, these are stability programmes, while in the countries with a derogation, they are convergence programmes. that is why, after long debates, we have adopted a report which, as regards the criteria for inclusion, is strictly based on the maastricht criteria, which are price stability. the rate of inflation in a candidate country must not be more than 1.5% above the rate of inflation in the three best countries in the european union. financial position: debt ratio of total debt not exceeding 60%, net new debt not exceeding 3%. i sometimes get the impression that the maastricht treaty and the stability and growth pact are being misinterpreted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am convinced that an early introduction of the euro is detrimental to the member states, because the fixing of the final exchange rate requires real convergence and financial and economic stability as well as monetary stability, so that the candidate country will not be in default after accession, when it can no longer appreciate and depreciate. we have discussed, we have agreed that we will not name countries, but that on the other hand we want to have a discussion with the commission and the european central bank on the definition of the inflation rate, which also has differences. the european central bank has defined a value of close to 2% as price stability for the purpose of assessing its monetary policy, and we want to enter into this dialogue in depth. we have also decided that we do not want any special discount for any of the candidates, but that we attach great importance to the equal and fair assessment of all, whether new or old members. we also want to avoid treating the experience of the first phase of accession, in which greece was admitted on the basis of incomplete data and italy before the two-year period of the exchange rate mechanism was completed, as a precedent for the enlargement of the euro area, and encourage the commission to make its assessments correctly and in close accordance with the maastricht treaty. the commissioner will understand that we want more transparency in this respect. i thank all the colleagues who have worked constructively. i think we have finally developed and produced a good report which will be supported by a large majority of our colleagues here and which is very much in line with the commissioner's approach.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank mr langen for his excellent report and all the members of parliament, particularly those of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, for their participation in this extremely important discussion. it is important to look after all the countries that are not yet in the euro area but want to be and are obliged to be, because all the member states, except the two with a derogation - the united kingdom and denmark - have the right to be in the euro area, but also the obligation to be in the euro area and to prepare for it. to that end, the issues dealt with in the report which gave rise to your report, on the preparations of the member states which will enter the euro area in the coming years, are very important. i should like to say that in the coming weeks we are going to adopt a new report, because from now on these reports will be published by the commission every six months, not every year. these are technical preparations, which are very important in order to inform public opinion and to try to prevent abuses in the changeover from the national currency to the common currency, as has happened in some cases in the past. we are using the experience of the past to cooperate with the candidate countries for the euro, to prevent such abuses and to convince the citizens that the changeover from their national currency to the euro has no direct relation to price increases, which can be avoided. and of course, the member states that are candidates to join the euro area must prepare themselves to meet the criteria laid down in the treaty, starting with the maastricht treaty. the debate has focused more on the latter aspect, because, as you know, the commission and the european central bank adopted convergence reports on the demands of slovenia and lithuania a few weeks ago. in these reports, the commission has given just like the european central bank its interpretation of the application of the criteria laid down in the treaty. and i repeat that these are criteria laid down in the treaty, not artificially or capriciously defined by the european commission, which cannot change the criteria of the treaty. our obligation, therefore - and we have done so this time and will do so in the future - is to apply the treaty and apply it rigorously, which is the only way to guarantee equal treatment for each and every one of the member states applying to join the euro area. the clearest discussion concerns the inflation criterion. mr langen was talking about the european central bank's criteria for maintaining price stability. i must say that it is not the same: one thing is the objective of the european central bank to maintain price stability in the euro area below 2% inflation but close to that figure, and another thing is the inflation criterion of the treaty, which states that those candidates for joining the euro area must have an average inflation over the last twelve months below the reference value, calculated as the inflation of the three countries with the best inflation performance, plus 1.5%. that is clearly stated in the treaty. the commission cannot change the criteria of the treaty; we have an obligation to enforce them and we have done so. as i have seen in some of the comments on the report or in the amendments that the commission is being asked to be transparent in the way it interprets and applies the treaty, i am at parliament's disposal not only to explain in detail the convergence report in the case of slovenia or lithuania, but also to provide, if you see fit, additional documentation on which the convergence report adopted by the commission on 16 may was based.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european people's party has always supported and promoted the enlargement of the european union and has therefore always said that this enlargement, including access to the euro, should finally continue. that has always been our policy, and it is still our policy. and it has always been the policy of the european people's party in recent years to advocate a strong euro, which must be guided by the maastricht criteria and strictly adhering to the stability and growth pact. this is why there have been major discussions with the commission in recent years, particularly with regard to the large countries - france, italy and germany. we will therefore continue to pursue this policy, which is oriented towards the stability of the euro, and in this case we would like to expressly support the commission in its clear course on how to proceed with the enlargement of the euro zone in the future. once again, we are very clear that the new countries should join the eurozone. but this must be done according to certain criteria, and we must observe a certain tradition and strictness. i would like to thank the commission once again for this. i would also like to ask the commission to give a better account of itself to the member states when it comes to data. the support of parliament is there. i also call on the member states to give the commission more powers when it comes to the question of checking the data which form the basis for accession. the commission is asked by parliament whether it can also provide guarantees for the data on which it bases its recommendation. so it must be enabled to gain more insight, and therefore the member states must be more cooperative here.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to thank my colleague, erna hennicot-schoepges, for her excellent work. without getting too close to the commissioner, i would say that it has given a proposal which is perhaps very administrative a lot more life than it had before. but the commission's proposals are always capable of being improved by us. the european parliament is a democratic place where political debate is about the lives, daily practices and concerns of citizens. the european union has seen the building of cathedrals, but it has also seen the french revolution, the declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen, the rule of law and the social state. the eu shares a common cultural heritage and respects cultural diversity. and that is why i want to emphasize very specifically: interfaith dialogue must be an important part of intercultural dialogue, and this is something that we must continue to do. if we are right in wanting to promote intercultural dialogue, but not to mention interreligious dialogue, then we are denying it. we must not see it as an obstacle but as a challenge, indeed as an opportunity to understand each other better and to live together in harmony. in the face of the current conflict with islam, it is not appropriate for us not to know our roots, not to name them and not to profess them. we're backed up against the wall. we should act with confidence, only then can we enter into a dialogue. education must also play a key role in the actions, both at european, national and regional level. actions to educate citizens and to make them aware of the diversity of others help to make dialogue constructive and effective. the educational institutions in particular must play a role in this european year. the european year of intercultural dialogue is also an opportunity to disseminate teaching and learning resources for the different cultures. intercultural dialogue is extremely important politically, but it only acquires its meaning through the inclusion of interreligious dialogue and education. only then can he be fertile, and only then can he preserve his soul.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, alejo vidal-quadras, for his report and for the good cooperation. i would like to highlight just a few points from the very extensive report adopted in committee which are very important for my group among others. firstly, the need to adjust the 20% energy saving target by 2020 upwards. the commission's target is based on a price of oil of $25-30 per barrel. i think it is unnecessary to stress that this assumption is far removed from any current and future reality. this means that we can expect much higher cost-effectiveness from energy efficiency measures. in this context, the report also sets out how cost-efficiency is to be determined. in determining them, factors such as rising energy prices, reducing energy import dependency, climate and environmental protection, security of energy supply, innovation and medium and long-term energy saving effects shall be taken into account. in addition to ambitious targets, we need ambitious energy efficiency action plans. i am referring to the european commission's action plan on the one hand, and the national action plans on the other. we really need to make these action plans the centrepiece of a necessary energy efficiency offensive, i.e. we need good and intensive publicity, practical and effective proposals, and we also need differentiated energy efficiency scenarios.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading by the committee on women's rights and gender equality on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and occupation (recast) [15623/7/2005 - c6-0089/2006 - 2004/0084 ((cod)) ] (rapporteur: angelika niebler) (a6-0165/2006)
the rapporteur. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we are voting today on the common position on the so-called recast directive, which the council has been negotiating with parliament for a very long time. this brings an important legislative procedure to a close. before i go into the content of the directive, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their collegial and constructive cooperation. i would also like to thank the luxembourg, british and austrian presidencies for having made it possible, together with parliament, to reach a consensual solution. i also thank the commission, whose officials have always provided us with competent technical assistance. thank you very much. what is the directive about? the european regulations on equal treatment for men and women in working life are at issue. we have seven directives dealing with this subject, and there is forty years of case law on these seven directives. we have finally achieved a bit of better legislation with this recast directive, which will be voted on this afternoon, by summing up, compressing, simplifying and de-lacerating the law. this recast directive defines for the first time terms such as discrimination and harassment on grounds of sex. it will harmonise and improve legal protection for victims of discrimination in working life. the commission has also worked with the council to achieve improvements in certain areas in the field of equal opportunities. this includes cooperation with the gender institute to be set up or the continuation of awareness-raising campaigns in the member states. so much for the letter of the law, if i may put it that way. what's it like in real life? in all the euphoria about the simplification of the law and this new directive, we must not forget that in practice there are still significant shortcomings in the treatment of men and women, especially in working life. the current figures in all 25 member states show that further action is still needed in this area of equal treatment. the gender gap in the labour market has not diminished, but rather increased. for example, the wage gap: it is astonishing that after many years of case law and legislation in this area, we still have a wage gap of more than 15% in all member states, that is, women earn on average 15% less than men for the same type of work. this can't be happening. similarly, the situation with the segregation of the sexes. certain occupations, unfortunately mainly low-paid ones, are still disproportionately occupied by women, and there are still significantly more women than men working part-time. i think that is still unacceptable and we must act against it. do we need new regulations in this area? i mean, no. we have this body of law now, we have jurisdiction in this area. the important thing is not to adopt new, stricter regulations, but to put into practice effectively what we have created in terms of regulations. the revised directive can make an important contribution to this. as i said, we have brought together existing legislation and the case law of the court of justice under the umbrella of the revised directive. we have thus taken a concrete step towards greater clarity, transparency and, therefore, greater legal certainty. but we have to think of new ways. we must, for example, look more closely at the causes of the high gender segregation in the labour market and raise awareness among citizens outside the local area. the social partners are also called upon to take even more decisive action against the wage gap and against discrimination on the labour market, especially against women. it is also a general challenge in terms of social policy to ensure equal opportunities in working life, and it is not addressed to a particular group only. and this is becoming more and more important when you look at demographics, and we're getting older, thank god. we have low birth rates in all european countries and the result is that women will continue to go into the labour force even more in the coming years and decades. it is against this background that it is important that we ensure equal opportunities and conditions for women in particular. i would like to take this last minute to make a brief reference to the subject of parental leave, which has also been the subject of a very lively debate in our parliament. for systematic reasons, the provisions on parental leave are not now provided for in this recast directive, but we want this item to be at the top of the political agenda because it is crucial to the issue of reconciliation of family and work. there may be an impulse from europe to do more in terms of reconciling family and work. i am glad that the commission may be making some further comments on this today and that the european council, at its spring meeting, has also made the reconciliation of family and work a priority and adopted a european pact for gender equality. we are on the right track and we are not at the end. but if we work together to take further steps towards equal opportunities in working life, we hope to reach our goal in time.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i should like to thank mrs niebler very much for this debate. i should also like to thank the many men, that is to say, the members of parliament, who have taken part in this debate. in fact, as the debate has shown, there is still a lot to be done in practice to achieve full equality. we must all work together to achieve this, because equal opportunities for women and men is not only an important fundamental right, but it also promotes the competitiveness of our businesses and our economy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. however, we must remember, especially in the context of general social considerations, especially demographic considerations, that we are an ageing society and that in the future we must try to have more children, but at the same time to allow for a work-life balance. i therefore believe that this recast directive is a very important step forward, because it simplifies and modernises a substantial part of the existing law on equality between men and women. we have thus really made it easier for citizens to access an important area of law, and we hope that it will be easier.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. today.
the next item is the report by mrs lívia járóka, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the situation of roma women in the european union [2005/2164 (ini) ] (a6-0148/2006)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i support this report: the situation of the roma population in europe is not good. discrimination against roma women occurs at all levels. we are talking about a vicious circle which is not being broken sufficiently by the political side. often, girls are pressured by their parents to leave school to help out in the household and to look after their siblings. the lack of training, poor working conditions, if any access to the labour market, low pay are the consequences. housing and family status are often degrading, and health care is inadequate. in addition, it is an intolerable crime of inhumanity when women are forcibly sterilized against their knowledge and consent, as was done in eastern europe during the communist era as part of a birth control program. it is particularly outrageous that this has happened in recent years. we must work to ensure that the women who have been harmed receive all the psychological and material help they can get in order to at least make up for some of the damage. we must urgently ensure that such inhuman acts in europe are not made possible by means of targeted education and information. unfortunately, the pig farm on the site of the former roma concentration camp in lety, in the czech republic, which we voted on last year, has still not been abolished!
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i should like to thank the house very much for this important debate and the important report. the report mentions as victims, women as instruments of war and women as instruments of peace. indeed, we also see the three trends that are there, and i agree with you that all the legal instruments are already there, but very often what is needed is much better implementation. we will all have to work towards that goal and i will promise to try to make a difference at least in the regions where i am responsible. we are fully committed to implementing un security council resolution 1325 of october 2000, on women, peace and security, where indeed all these issues mentioned. your report also addresses the question of women in conflicts and as peace-builders from many different angles. i very much support this approach because women cannot only be seen as victims. very often they are key players in promoting peace. for example, in palestine and israel we see that women are coming together and they are those in the society that would like to go forward with peacemaking. the female suicide bomber is a striking example of the complexity of this issue, and a phenomenon that deserves further study. and as you said, very often it involves women who are somewhat isolated by their own societies and then, of course, who don't have any other chance, don't care for their lives anymore and then become suicide bombers. the commission's two-pronged approach to promoting gender equality abroad is also well reflected in the report. first, we take on board gender concerns in all policies and programmes so, there is a sort of mainstreaming. secondly, we also fund specific projects to promote women. i am convinced this approach will remain valid in the future. both mainstreaming and specific actions will continue to be necessary, but it is also about changing the societies there. it is about changing the mentality of the societies, as you very rightly said. mainstreaming is important because peace-building comprises this broad range of areas. these include peace negotiations, peacekeeping operations, demobilisation, disarmament, reintegration and rehabilitation. there, women always have their role whether they are mothers, sisters, etc., women are there in the society and they see what is going on. also very important are election observation missions, security sector reform, institution-building and, particularly, strengthening of civil society. we also have training programmes which can perhaps be enhanced in the future, where more than 800 commission officials and other staff are involved in channelling the implementation of those programmes. another example related to capacity building, which is very important here, is that we are supporting training in the area of crisis management, intended for member state experts deployed in that field. promoting gender equality in crisis management and conflict resolution is an integral part of this whole training. gender aspects are there. when i say that supporting civil society organisations plays a key role, i think this is very true for example for women in bosnia and kosovo, but also for training women in conflict resolution in rwanda or burundi and strengthening women's active participation in peace processes around the world, such as for example in georgia and colombia. through echo, our humanitarian program, we are also supporting several projects focusing on women in affected areas like afghanistan, burundi and the democratic republic of congo. this year, within our european initiative on democracy and human rights, we are also focusing on issues such as equal treatment, women who are victims of gender-based violence in conflict zones, and the trafficking of women and children. so, there's quite an impressive amount of project proposals that are there. in total, eur 9.7 million is available for this campaign from the 2005 budget and this year's budget. in addition, this year we will also be putting increased emphasis on gender in conflict prevention network funding. here we have to encourage civil society, think-thanks and academia to provide external analytical experience. then we have to see how we can implement that. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the committee's opinion was drawn up in the light of the work done by the advisory committee on development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank mrs véronique de keyser for her report. the report contains many important points with which i agree wholeheartedly. i fully support the demands made by mrs de keyser, particularly in the area of reproductive health. the consistent implementation of un resolution 1325 would be a huge step forward in terms of women's participation at all levels of institutional conflict prevention, management and resolution. it is a shame, however, that we still seem to need quotas to guarantee equal rights to the six and a half billion people in the world. the relatively new phenomenon of female suicide bombers needs scientific investigation and specific support programmes. the religious context must not obscure the fact that religion is being perverted for political purposes. i do not believe that increased military presence, even in the form of female soldiers and police, will increase security. as the author of the opinion for the development committee, i see instead the possibility for lasting stability and security in strengthening civil society actors in particular. the political dialogue must be given the highest priority. women must be given greater protection and better access to food and healthcare in times of conflict. the security of refugee camps is also a major factor, because the conditions in conflict areas are particularly dire in developing countries. more soldiers - and i stress again that it does not matter whether the soldiers are women or men, whether they are members of the enemy forces or the so-called peacekeepers - do not bring more security, but increase the risk of women becoming victims of sexual violence.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not there is no good unless you do it. i would like to thank mrs de keyser for her very concise report, which shows all the aspects, including the division of power between men and women as the cause of many conflicts. we see women as perpetrators, as victims, but we also see solutions, and it's very important that we recognize that women, who in many conflicts between states, or even in internal conflicts, are often the first victims, because they are among the most vulnerable groups, but paradoxically, they are also in the role of being the strong ones who manage the conflict situations. the women of the rubble in germany have been rebuilding after the devastation of the second world war, and yet there is a pattern of their being pushed out of political responsibility again. there is a pattern of sexual violence against women in wars around the world. iraq and palestine are countries where women are pushed out of political responsibility. there's a conflict in sudan where sexual violence is rampant. that is why it is so important for us social democrats to ensure that women participate in all missions through gender mainstreaming, as described in un resolution 1325. we want to see equal political participation in all areas of diplomacy even before the conflicts. unfortunately, commissioner, we have only three eu missions worldwide with women at the top. we are continuing to work on this in our group. we shall be looking at this in greater depth in the gomes report. this is a matter of enormous importance to our group. the issues of reproductive health, suicide bombings, anti-personnel mines, where women and children are still the victims, have been raised. we can say clearly here: the report shows that women are not only better people per se, but that we want to play our part actively, we want to play our part ourselves, and europe must take the lead in this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. sexual violence and torture of women and girls are part of every conflict. but women and girls are by no means just victims. there are many women's initiatives which are working for dialogue, peace and reconciliation. women are also actors with great social potential, and the international community must do everything possible to strengthen this role. in my view, the most important demand of resolution 1325 is that 'women must be more represented in national, regional and international institutions and mechanisms for the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts at all levels of decision-making'. this requirement must be strongly enforced by means of specific target formulations such as quotas. the absence of specific quotas is, after all, an invitation to non-commitment and strengthens those forces which, for whatever reason, want to exclude women from the political process. i would have liked the commission to set out very specific short- and long-term demands as it implements the resolution. it is also essential to give gender budgeting a major role in humanitarian aid. i would therefore expect more of the commission's actual action to implement this resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have the floor under rule 145 of the rules of procedure. this article refers to comments of a personal nature on the debate. i would like to make a point of order which concerns me personally. i refer to a statement made by mr boguslaw rogalski in the last night's sitting. i therefore exercise my right to express my opinion on this. mr rogalski, who has not been very well known in this house so far - and i did not know him for that reason - has called me a natural child of karl marx and rosa luxemburg. that's a wonderful phrase, of course. (disturbance) you will understand, mr president, that i am proud that the extreme right applauds such a formulation, even though it is not biologically possible at the moment. i'm honored in a special way. but, mr president, that is not the point i wish to make. mr rogalski made a remark which i will quote here. it refers to homosexuals, and it says: homosexuals are useless because they cannot reproduce! that is the language we criticised yesterday. this is the language of the inhumans; she has no place in parliament! (applause from the centre) and since it is obvious that your colleague, who chaired the sitting, did not intervene, i would ask you to look at the minutes and see what sanctions the house has against such an impossible statement. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in developing countries, smes are mostly micro-enterprises. one of their problems is that many of them work in the informal sector, that is, in the informal economy. it is therefore important that the ownership of these entrepreneurs is legally recognized, and last but not least - and i am not saying this as a jargon - the ownership of women entrepreneurs. the legal property rights are the key to the success of smes, also in developing countries. i thank all those who have contributed to the report, which was unanimously adopted by the committee on development, and i ask the house to give it its full support.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to support the motion. i agree with the conclusion of this resolution that there is a breakdown in the rule of law and that this institution must be closed. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i believe that if we are to have the greatest possible influence on the outcome of this matter, we should be up to date and get the widest possible majority in this house before the summit to make the necessary impression at the summit. i therefore ask you to support mr coveney's proposal. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to make a proposal to the house and also to the petitioner. i could, as rapporteur, recommend a yes here if the applicant would agree that this application only goes as far as the convention and does not include the last sentence. if the signal comes, mr. brie, i could recommend a yes. mr. brie says yes. so i would recommend voting until convention; the second part has withdrawn, and then we could vote yes.
the rapporteur. the commission is not the voting procedure here suggests that we vote first on amendment no 18 and then on paragraph 7, in four parts. here 's what we need to do . we shall vote first on amendment no 18, which is compatible with the separate votes proposed. so the order is correct. i would suggest, however, that we ignore the vote on part 1, because it is identical to 2, 3 and 4, with the only difference that separate votes are proposed for 2, 3 and 4 and that it is proposed to vote on part 1 together for 2, 3 and 4. i would like to make one further addition. the proposal for a separate vote on parts 2, 3 and 4 relates only to the amendments to the english version and not to the other language versions. i hope that's understandable. (general cheerfulness)
mr president, this is very simple. i would like to add ‘and biodiesel’ after the word ‘bioethanol’ in amendment 15.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has decided by a very large majority that we should not evaluate individual countries in this report, but should express our views exclusively on the conditions for joining the euro zone. i have recommended, on the basis of this resolution, that we reject the three amendments tabled by the liberals. i have heard that the social democrats have deviated from this line at 11.05 p.m. last night, and i would therefore like to recommend to the house that we vote differently. i would like the house to vote in favour of slovenia, that is to say, to agree to amendments nos 1 and 3 on estonia, but we are strongly opposed to amendment no 2 by the liberals, because amendment no 2 suggests that the commission and the european central bank have made serious errors in their assessment of the situation in lithuania and that the commission should therefore submit a revised version of its convergence report. almost everyone in this room is in favour of the rapid enlargement of the eurozone. but if parliament wants to remain credible, if we want to be taken seriously, then we must not speak out against the rules of the treaty and the maastricht criteria. i therefore ask that we vote by roll call against amendment no 2 and in favour of amendments nos 1 and 3.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if i understand the rapporteur correctly, he would like to see the vote postponed to the next part-session, because of the unfortunate circumstances of this procedure for which we are all responsible, and we should close now. (applause from the centre) the whole thing, not only the final vote, but also the vote on the individual motions, was a procedural error in view of the result that will come out of it. it is the rule that the matters which are in the co-decision procedure are carried out at the beginning of a vote. we didn't follow our own rule, and it turns out that was a mistake.
in writing. new partnership? what is it? the eu promises the us arms expansion and close military cooperation. the european parliament voted today by a large majority in favour of a new transatlantic partnership. the eu and the us also expressed their support for close military cooperation. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe, and to help the people of europe. the cia's torture flights and the use of us military bases in europe for wars in the middle east should not disrupt the new partnership. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the declared european-american brotherhood in arms culminates in the promise to "increase europe's military capabilities" for the "building of better partnerships between the european union and the united states in political and military terms". this promise is a clear commitment to continue to fight wars on the side of the united states and to continue to support the wars that have been fought so far. nevertheless, the real aim of those responsible for eu military policy remains to intervene militarily anywhere in the world - as in the congo - without nato and us help. the concept of a civil europe has long since been abandoned in the european parliament.
in writing. i abstained because i believe that all eu member states must be subject to the same criteria and that the enlargement of the eurozone must not lead to stricter conditions for new member states. my abstention, however, does not change my fundamental criticism of the stability pact: it is a totally inappropriate instrument for solving the economic and social problems of the eu and benefits only the corporations and wealthy. the need is not for a pact based unilaterally on price stability, but for a social and employment pact that is geared to the needs of the population. the european council in brussels in december last year stressed the need to strengthen the european union's economic and monetary union and to strengthen the european union's economic and monetary union.
in writing. the report by mrs de keyser is overall good in the core parts that actually relate to women in armed conflict. the rapporteur, however, confuses the actual subject of the report with general positions on eu military policy: there are only 7 positive references to the current esdp, which devalue the report and make it impossible to approve. one of the points even encourages the eu to "pay more attention to the presence, preparation, training and equipment of police forces within its military missions, as police units are the most important means of ensuring the safety of the civilian population, especially women and children". the ideology of the so-called 'humanitarian intervention' in this report remains the secret of the grand coalition in the european parliament which unconditionally supports the militarization of the eu. under the guise of working for women in armed conflict, the aim is to build consensus for the militarisation of the eu. that is why i voted no to the de keyser report. it is wrong to spend more and more money on arms research and to arm the eu with the ability to wage global war. all attempts to legitimise the militarisation of the eu on the pretext of humanitarian motives must be rejected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask you again, if i have understood correctly, whether this is an extraordinary plenary session. this is a total mess! we have long since introduced the practice of holding a conference of presidents open to members. that's who it is. is that true or not? anything else is nonsense. we do not need a plenary session.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after the commission presented its report for the 16th time, we said that we did not want to have a resolution before that. and since the report is as it is, with the final proposals from the commission not coming until october, parliament should not be taking a position on the basis of this report until october, not in the meantime. it is not appropriate to table a resolution at this time, since it has not been discussed in the committee or in most of the political groups, since the question was apparently not discussed until thursday in the conference of presidents. parliament should take such a big issue seriously so that we can welcome these two countries in a suitable way later on. i therefore ask you to withdraw this item from the agenda.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is necessary today to recall in this house the initiatives on which the commission and i have been working over the last few months. i would like to thank mrs záborská for speaking about the existence of a more general problem, namely the need for european action to dismantle the network of trafficking in women and children, which is mainly for sexual exploitation. in my view, this is a modern form of slavery which europe can neither tolerate nor, even less, ignore. we are faced with a medium- and long-term question. i hope that in the course of 2006 a project will be drawn up to assess, as some members of the european parliament have asked me to do, the impact of the demand for prostitution on the volume of human trafficking for sexual exploitation. i am personally convinced that the more the demand from the customers increases, the more the trafficking for sexual exploitation is indirectly encouraged in some way. we do not have precise figures, but we are ready to launch a project which we will of course report to this parliament. i would like to give you some information on the list of concrete initiatives relating to the world cup in germany. firstly, together with the commission and president barroso, i have supported all the information campaigns aimed at raising awareness of the serious danger of an increase in trafficking for sexual exploitation linked to the world cup. in this connection, i had the pleasure of meeting a delegation led by mr gurmai in brussels a few days ago, and we received the outcome of a petition from the socialist party, which was very successful in gathering many thousands of signatures. we then contacted the german authorities to support prevention and information campaigns in germany. i had asked for something more, namely that concrete and positive information on prevention be included on the international football federation's website, and i share mr záborská's regret that the federation has responded so coldly to this request. you also know that the group of independent experts on human trafficking submitted the report we had requested a few days ago. the report, published on 2 june, analyses the risk of increased trafficking for sexual exploitation in relation to the world cup. this report is of course available to parliament. as you know, we also asked europol to draw up a report on this matter. europol has produced an analysis document, intended for police and investigative authorities, to strengthen concrete measures of coordination between police authorities. i can tell you - without going into detail for time reasons - that this document confirms the hypothesis of an increase in forced prostitution and trafficking precisely at the same time as the football world cup. the incidence of a high number of young girls trafficked during the world cup season, as some feared, is thus confirmed. i would like to refer to the question put before the start of this debate, and i do not therefore agree with the analysis of a leading german newspaper that this sporting event is irrelevant in terms of the increase in cases of sexual exploitation. this increase is foreseeable and is actually planned, so the question is not irrelevant. the german authorities, in particular the federal ministry of the interior and the ministries of the länder, have responded to our requests. we have discussed this twice in the council of ministers of the interior and arrangements have been made for more thorough checks at the borders. we have been informed that trafficking groups have organized a network of trafficking of young girls, mainly from countries on the eastern borders of the european union. i would like to stress that border controls must be tightened up. we have also asked for and received instructions on the need to protect victims of exploitation in the implementation of special assistance programmes. these are not people to be treated as illegal immigrants, but victims of a modern form of slavery who must be protected. we have also supported the setting up of two multilingual telephone lines, which are already in operation and have been entrusted to two german non-governmental organizations, well known in the country. we are aware of the problem of the absence of a single telephone number at european level, a project which, however, requires the agreement of all the telephone companies in all the member states. this is an initiative which we can implement in the medium term, just as we are implementing a european emergency number for children. we have also supported an information campaign with the german authorities, which was organized by the german women's council, which you will be very familiar with. we have decided together to organise a workshop to be held by the european commission and the german authorities immediately after the world cup, in order to prepare a document containing all the positive and negative experiences of this period and to draw up a kind of manual to be used at all international sporting events. i should also like to say a few words about the role of europol and eurojust. we have encouraged member states to cooperate more closely with these two organisations. as you know, europol has done a very good job in recent weeks, as it reported at the last meeting of the council of ministers of the interior in luxembourg last week, and the director of europol confirmed that the police cooperation network has benefited greatly from the boost given to national police forces by the member states. in conclusion, i should like to say that we have sent a request, formulated in accordance with the action plan, to the network of consulates of the member states of the european union in the countries of origin. we have asked for regular meetings to be held in the countries of origin at consular level to strengthen the preventive identification of potential victims of trafficking and thus to help them not to fall victim to such trafficking. we will prepare a report on this request by the end of 2006. this is, in summary, the list of initiatives that have been taken so far.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make a number of proposals. on 17 january 2006, we adopted the report by christa prets on 'strategies to prevent trafficking in women and children at risk of sexual exploitation', in march 2006 we adopted an oral question with a resolution on forced prostitution at international sporting events and on 8 march this year we held a 'red card for forced prostitution' seminar in the european parliament. but we're just not giving up. all the actions include very specific proposals to combat forced prostitution. the football world cup is currently being held in germany. we know that during such events there is a spectacular increase in the demand for sexual services and that there is an increase in criminal acts such as human trafficking and forced prostitution before and during such events. in march i called for information both on the spot - in the countries where most women come from - and in the country where the event is taking place, good information and public relations, including awareness-raising for potential volunteers, a multilingual 24-hour telephone hotline and the provision of subsequent assistance by the police and the provision of rescue services and women's homes. on the one hand, there is the football world cup, which has just begun, but there was also a hockey world cup, perhaps a slightly smaller event, with certainly the same problems. today we ask the question and i thank anna záborská for asking this question for us: how is the offer accepted? that's what we need to focus on right now. the soccer world championship is now on. the free telephone hotline is now open until 31 july, following initial problems. but we must also draw lessons from these actions for future major events. we have to learn from the problems, and we have to find the right approach now. i would ask all of us, including you as commissioner, to take the lead in this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. commissioner frattini, i am glad that you have taken up this initiative of the european parliament against trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. but i agree with my predecessor that this cannot be a one-off. this must now be the starting point for more action beyond the world cup, not just for sporting events, but for major events in general. it's a lot of poetry you've been singing. i regret that the telephone hotline was only set up under great pressure from outside, that there are different numbers and that it is limited in availability. basically, we need this kind of offer on a permanent basis. it would also be important to have a european day against trafficking in human beings. i find it a serious omission that the ministers of justice did not call in april for the immediate implementation of the eu victim protection directive and the european convention against trafficking in human beings. this is another issue that must be at the centre. what do we offer these women beyond the hotline? only by helping beyond the hotline can we help to help the women and children affected. i'm very glad that this world cup debate has become a social debate about prostitution, because we have to realize that the worldwide profits of the sex industry, which are estimated at 5 to 7 billion dollars annually, exceed all military budgets. we must take this as a starting point for action against the sexual exploitation of women, against forced prostitution in general. but we also need to discuss more best practice in comparison with other member states. there are good occasions for this. we need special agents for human trafficking and the like. we must set a shining example here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a week ago, frankfurt am main - and here i am - welcomed hundreds of thousands of football fans from all over the world with an impressive visual and acoustic event, the skyarena. on the walls of 11 high-rise buildings, super-sized players and fans were projected, showing scenes of jubilation and grief, fairness and fouls. the world cup in germany is designed to make millions of people feel like they are at home with friends. in big events like this, there are a lot of positive emotions that can be aroused, but also a lot of negative developments, and that's where the fun stops. commissioner frattini rightly stressed at the eu conference of ministers of the interior on 28 april that germany is well prepared to combat this form of forced prostitution. we are armed against isolated criticism and some boycott threats: increased border controls, a massively expanded witness protection programme for victims, a nationwide information collection centre 160 officials are active around the clock. and the federal government has spent two million euros on the prevention campaign. in may, red-light raids were conducted, 700 brothels were searched, as well as apartments and almost 2,000 people, and so on. however, the measures taken by the member states and the commission are not enough - and i agree with the previous speakers - when it comes to preventing suffering, humiliation and blackmail. the european parliament resolution tabled by mrs záborská has pointed out that: forced prostitution at international sporting events. fifa has no reason to be offended at all. we are calling for campaigns that are understandable, that inform potential victims, that effectively deter perpetrators, and for the pan-european telephone action we hope for, this hotline, there is so far only one announcement: 'no service at this number'. this can't work. europol and eurojust must also be able to deal with this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. let's do what my colleagues did: we must show this exploitation the red card.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner dimas, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. water, like air, is essential to our life. water is also a very deep matter in the truest sense of the word, and we must be careful not to sink into it. the debate on the common position on the groundwater directive in the last few days has shown this to me. the report by the committee on the environment contains 43 amendments as a recommendation for the second reading in the european parliament. it was adopted by 50 votes to none against and one abstention. only four amendments were tabled in addition. i take this convincing vote as a clear mandate for negotiations between parliament and the council. i hope that today's debate will help to confirm this vote so that the european parliament can enter the conciliation procedure with a good basis and a clear mandate. that is why i, as rapporteur, am proposing a package for the vote. i'm against all petitions that have 37 signatures. they are not the views of my own group. unfortunately, the council of ministers has not yet had the flexibility to reach agreement with parliament at this second reading. the conciliation procedure now gives us the opportunity to improve the present text of the common position. this is urgently needed in some areas. the text of the law must be clarified wherever it is vague and open to interpretation. the terms used for this purpose must also be defined. geoglyph background values must be taken into account in the assessment of good groundwater status. this creates the necessary flexibility in the different situations in the member states. the deterioration of groundwater due to new pollutant inputs must be prevented by clear criteria for controlling trends. the threshold values to be set at national level shall be based on human and ecotoxicological criteria. these are the only criteria we have, and a study by the european commission confirms that this is a viable option. a review clause must allow the effectiveness of the directive to be reviewed and, where appropriate, improved. as rapporteur, i am particularly concerned that more emphasis should be placed on preventative water management. we have been saying for many years that prevention is better than cure. nowhere is this more apparent than in groundwater. it can take years and decades for pollutant inputs from seepage into the soil to become noticeable in groundwater. it takes the same amount of time for measures taken or the self-cleaning powers of groundwater to reverse damage once it has occurred. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the water resources of the community are not depleted. in austria and my home country of germany, 80 to 100% of drinking water is obtained from groundwater. as we have just seen, this is even the case in some parts of the united kingdom. and these are precisely the reasons why we must ensure that even clean groundwater remains clean for future generations. the groundwater ecosystem as such must be protected. many calls from colleagues, a number of statements from associations, but also some requests for separate votes - they document a great deal of uncertainty. this is not surprising in itself, given the complexity of the technical issues and the scope of the water framework directive. but one thing is for sure, we don't need to reinvent the wheel completely. this groundwater directive is a subsidiary of the 2000 water framework directive. we've got a lot of things covered here. but we must be clear and unambiguous in our statement. i am therefore very much looking forward to hearing what you, mr dimas, will say about the remark and the reference to the nitrates directive. these provisions are of the utmost importance to the european farmers concerned. "water instead of diamonds" was the headline of an article in the financial section of a major german daily last week. clean water is slowly but surely becoming scarce, as precious and as rare as diamonds. the demand for clean water will continue to rise in the coming decades. already, in the last 100 years, per capita consumption has grown twice as fast as population and economy. investments in water companies are recommended. we should set the course in the vote today and tomorrow so that our groundwater remains a life-sustaining elixir and also a diamond for future generations.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and mr commissioner! everyone is singing the song about how important water is to us. we 're all in this house . the question is how we want to protect groundwater. we know from the eea that already 87% of groundwater is too high in nitrate. in germany, nitrate levels in groundwater are up to seven times the maximum permitted level, especially in areas with mass livestock farming. nitrate is converted in the body into toxic nitrites, which increase the risk of cancer and can lead to life-threatening bluetongue, especially in infants. we must agree that we cannot continue to allow exceptions. that is what this vote is about. we will in any case not support the introduction of exceptions to the nitrate limit of 50 mg per litre of groundwater, which would lead to widespread pollution. we must really emphasize today that we do not want to allow any exceptions, that we are concerned about maintaining the precautionary principle, because we know that post-treatment treatment is ten times more expensive than the precautionary principle. that is what we have to do. 40% of europe's groundwater is already excessively polluted. this has to be a warning sign for us not to say, we are making the bad practices in many member states, the exceeding of the values, compulsory as exceptional cases. it can't be. the daily pollution of groundwater must be stopped, and above all we must put an end to the extreme nitrogen inputs from industrial agriculture, as my predecessor has already said. the pesticide industry is doing itself a disservice if it does not have a great deal of interest in it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. dear christa klaß, thank you for your good work! i can support 99% of your work with great enthusiasm. i would also like to take up what mr mulder said, namely that we must have comparable standards in europe, not necessarily standards like in germany or the netherlands, but standards like clay to clay, sand to sand. but when i hear my dear colleagues, some of whom have already fled, i am very surprised that they have obviously not yet implemented the nitrate directive in their own countries, otherwise they would not be shouting "zeter and mordecai". if they have implemented the nitrates directive - i am one of the few farmers in this house who still has a real farm - then this scenario cannot happen at all. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. so we can also have this debate again with those who are really competent and who do not simply think that standards need to be set. because you can't. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. the commission cannot help making such a good proposal, because you have only influence over what you as a farmer actually do on your fields. the inputs that are not generated by your management but by geogenic processes are not controlled by you, even if you are determined to reverse the trend, or at best for decades 50 to 100 years . that is why i believe that this combination of the nitrate directive and the groundwater directive must remain in place and i will actively promote it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. clean air, clean water and clean soil were the main reasons why i decided to go to brussels 17 years ago, rather than to my national parliament. i have already had a very hard fight with your brother, who was then minister for the environment, and we have in many cases come to a good conclusion. because he was involved in the nitrate directive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank mrs christa klaß for her excellent work in the two readings of this directive. i wish her continued strength. we in the committee are broadly in agreement on the direction our objectives are taking and we will defend them vigorously against the council and the commission. the groundwater directive is, after all, a precautionary and restorative directive, although i personally prefer the precautionary principle. adequate groundwater quality for all citizens in europe should be taken for granted. what else is in the groundwater? i don't believe in anything except the naturally occurring minerals and dissolved substances. water quality is not the same everywhere in europe. geological reasons alone make this impossible. it is neither desirable nor necessary, but we want to ensure that all europeans have access to good quality water that is not harmful to health. up to 80% of drinking water is extracted from groundwater in individual countries, e.g. in germany, austria and also in large parts of southern england. the presence of clean groundwater will be a determining factor in future locations. failure to protect water and to keep it clean in the first place means incurring multiple costs and long-term pollution of water. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the maximum levels of nitrates and pesticides are not exceeded. i agree with the directive.
member of the commission. mr president, let me summarize the commission's views on some of the key issues raised by parliament. the amendments concerning the definition of groundwater degradation and the nitrate regulations are extremely important. amendments nos 12, 18 and 23 propose provisions to maintain the status quo as regards groundwater quality. at the same time, it seeks to prohibit any adverse changes in the concentrations of pollutants in groundwater. i share the rapporteur's point that vigilance is needed to avoid the deterioration of groundwater quality. however, the concern that the new directive may leave room for additional pollution is addressed by the requirement in article 5 to identify and reverse any significant upward trend in pollutant concentrations. moreover, maintaining the status quo is not in line with the requirements of the water framework directive, according to which the management of groundwater quality must be carried out in such a way as to prevent any degradation of groundwater. the amendments cannot therefore be accepted. as regards the nitrates regulation, the commission can accept amendment no 36 which proposes to delete the reference to the nitrates directive. the commission considers that this reference is not necessary, taking into account the relevant provisions of the water framework directive. as regards the programmes of measures to reverse the trend of nitrate concentrations of agricultural origin, it is noted that the relevant provisions of the nitrates directive still cover these programmes and therefore do not need to be included in this directive, therefore the commission can accept amendment no 43. i would like to reiterate here that the nitrate directive, the water framework directive and this directive all have the same objectives in terms of preventing and reducing nitrate pollution. there are also no substantive differences as regards their legally binding nature and the measures required or the different time limits. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on nitrates. but it must be integrated into the overall management structure of the water framework directive. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire, and that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. similarly, the new definitions of 'background' and 'basic concentration' and the corresponding references can be accepted. on the other hand, the commission cannot agree with amendment no 15, which aims to base groundwater standards on anthropogenic and ecotoxicological criteria, since this issue is adequately addressed in the drinking water directive. amendments nos 24, 25, 28 and 29 also concern matters already covered by the water framework directive and therefore cannot be accepted. in conclusion, mr president, i should like to say that the commission accepts nine amendments in total and 19 others in principle or in part. however, 19 amendments cannot be accepted by the commission. i shall be submitting to the secretariat of parliament a full list of the commission's positions on the amendments. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs klaß, again for her excellent work.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i would like to ask the commissioner one more question. am i correct in hearing that the commission can accept amendments nos 36 and 43? that is precisely what we are discussing here, where we have so many differences of opinion. it might have been a little difficult to understand with the translation. commissioner, could you give us some further details? i would be glad if you would accept these amendments, because they concern the compatibility of the directives. there are different interpretations of this. if you could just say a couple more sentences.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr seeber, for his work. it is undeniable that we must do something about flood disasters. i believe that we can achieve adequate flood protection in europe without a flood directive. that is my firm belief. the commission has also originally announced a communication, not a directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore believe that we can achieve the same objectives in other ways, for example by working together more closely. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the protection of stocks that the rapporteur has also mentioned. if a directive has an objective which is already being pursued by appropriate measures at member state level, we should respect that in europe. it is therefore essential to take account of the efforts already made by the member states. where member states have already produced flood maps for certain areas or where a risk assessment has already been carried out, this work should not be devalued by directives and there should be no need to carry out new plans or new risk assessments. this would be too much bureaucracy, which we want and have to tackle. i would therefore ask you to support amendment no 71, which has already been adopted in the committee on the environment, to be voted on tomorrow in the plenary. the directive provides, inter alia, that member states may decide not to draw up flood risk management plans if plans already in place are suitable for achieving the objectives of the directive. that is subsidiarity, that is flexibility. i wish i had more of that flexibility. for example, the local stakeholders should be able to decide which map scale is best suited to which area of a river to carry out preventive flood management. that is one reason why i am against a directive as a whole.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. flooding is a disaster that threatens many regions of europe year after year. in recent years alone, floods in europe have killed hundreds of people, left hundreds of thousands homeless, and caused billions of dollars in damage. experts say the likelihood of recurrent flooding is expected to increase even more in the future. in the summer of 2002, large areas along the rivers of central europe were under water. i myself come from saxony, a region which was particularly badly affected at the time, and many of you will remember the images of the flooded state capital dresden. like many of the countries affected, my home region of saxony was not only rebuilding and restoring the destroyed infrastructure after the floods. at the same time, sensible strategies for the long-term prevention and control of floods in the affected regions were developed. the call for europe was then heard. the solidarity fund was set up before any concrete eu directive on flood control was drawn up. i do not want to question the need for community legislation and action plans in principle either, since most of europe's river basins cover more than one country and purely national approaches are sometimes not useful. the commission has, however, produced a lot of unnecessary red tape in its proposal for a directive on the assessment and control of floods. i would like to focus on two specific points. firstly, the directive clearly infringes the principle of subsidiarity, in particular in articles 7 and 9 of the directive. the fact that member states have to draw up flood risk maps and flood management plans for sub-basins cannot be accepted. we should only regulate at european level what needs to be regulated at european level. the directive should focus on transboundary water catchment areas. secondly, there is little or no consideration of existing plans and measures. in many member states, there are already adequate regulations for national waters. in particular, in countries which have experienced floods in the past, there are very good concepts and plans which take account of both the european objectives in flood protection and the specific situation on the ground. i therefore fully support the proposal for a new article 16a to recognise preparatory work carried out in the member states within the meaning of the directive. the countries must be given the necessary leeway. because if we do not have a healthy degree of flexibility, the enormous costs of implementation will fall on the very countries that have done a lot and developed effective strategies. in this sense, there is still room for improvement. yes to flood protection at european level, no to the violation of the principle of subsidiarity and unnecessary bureaucracy!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank mr seeber for the excellent drafting of this directive. we all know the many causes of the increasingly dramatic floods. fortunately, we have not experienced all of these disasters ourselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so two souls beat in my breast. flood protection is a classic example of solidarity. i live on the lower reaches of a river and i know what it means when there is no flood protection on the upper reaches, when there are no buffers or reservoirs or anything like that, but instead the upper reaches are just blocked off and the water increases its speed accordingly. the directive guarantees a minimum level of protection of common features and a certain degree of solidarity, for example in the context of the solidarity fund, which in 2005 allocated at least some eur 100 million to romania, bulgaria and tyrol. i think that subsidiarity is taken into account, but not sufficiently. the scale could be a little bigger. subsidiarity does not relieve the member states of their responsibilities. the three steps we have outlined are logical: assessing transboundary risks, drawing up flood maps and planning for possible and effective risk management. i would be glad if we could have a discussion after five years, even without the revision clause, about whether the desired european added value has actually been achieved.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. water and no end tonight! i welcome the call for international coordination of flood risk management measures and i thank my colleague richard seeber for his balanced report. water is boundless, not only in groundwater, but especially in rivers, and for many of these rivers there are already cross-border plans and, as a result, cross-border measures. if you think of the rhine and the moselle, my home river, as international european rivers, you will know that flood problems can only be tackled together with all the countries bordering them. if you look at the reactions to the floods in our area, you might think that the moselle has been in control of the floods, that it has become accustomed to them. but whoever has had to clear out his cellar, his barn or even his house because the news came from trier: in an hour the water rises by exactly that many centimetres, and so you are standing in the hallway of your house thank god you can find this out today who knows what it means to be on call and to carry out cleaning work during each major rainy season, and who also knows about the energy, the cost and the time necessary to cope with these disasters. no region gets used to flooding. well, we've been fighting this problem for many years, and in that time, we've also found allies across borders. there are good experiences to build on. the management of flood-prone areas must be the responsibility of the local authorities on the basis of internationally agreed regulations. in the spirit of de-bureaucratization, the contribution obligations to the commission for all departments and political levels must be kept to a minimum.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in the plenary session in may, a month ago, we adopted the report on the new solidarity fund 2007-2013 in first reading, in the light of the increasing frequency of natural disasters, especially floods, and i am the rapporteur for this report. the debate was, and still is, a call for european solidarity. i am convinced that this fund will also make a significant contribution to the immediate damage, that the union can act better and more effectively in areas where citizens also expect action from the european union. this spring it became clear that flooding across borders in europe is not going to stop. building errors and lack of precautions, such as the lack of floodplains, are taking their toll in ever shorter cycles. this time it was especially visible on the lower danube. yes, the problems are largely homemade. what is lacking is a binding legal framework and also some management for flood protection and preparedness and the will to implement what has already been agreed. the report by mr richard seeber is a good basis for a european regulatory framework, if - and you have stressed this again, commissioner - the principle of subsidiarity is strictly observed. important decisions such as the level of protection and the right choice of protection measures can only be taken by the member states themselves. to put it very clearly, the member states must be allowed to present and pass on eu-relevant data and facts to brussels in the way that is already the case today, so as not to create new bureaucracy, even with the entry into force of this proposal for a directive. because that would not help anyone in the case. the report as it stands is a good one and should be adopted by a large majority.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make it clear once again that mr sakalas spoke personally here. there are no two positions on the judiciary committee. the legal affairs committee has a clear, unequivocal position in that it has rejected the idea that there is this funding of embryonic stem cells. i would... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, thank you for your introduction. but of course i would like to thank in particular our rapporteur, jerzy buzek, with whom we have had an excellent and very close cooperation, not only as shadow rapporteur but also as rapporteur for the innovation framework programme. and this cooperation, mr buzek, ladies and gentlemen, was also important, because we must recognize that europe is still a continent of invention - we are the origin of so many things in the world - but fp7 is also the right response to global change. let us be clear: power and powerlessness in the context of globalisation are increasingly less linked to military forces and weapons and more linked to knowledge, to the power of interpretation and to the ability to control certain production processes. we have to start there, and fp7 is a very important building block. but europe can only move forward if we can turn invention into innovation. and here, dear jerzy buzek, we have worked very closely together to ensure that our two framework programmes for research and innovation overlap, so that more products, more services, more licences are created in europe. i'm grateful to you for that. i would like to ask you a direct question, commissioner, and i would also like to put it on behalf of my colleague, mr toine manders. we know that there is a eurobarometer survey which deals with the ethical question raised by mr goebbels and asks how europeans feel about embryonic stem cell research. we know the study is complete, but we don't know the results because they haven't been published yet. can you tell us why this study is not being published, and can you tell us what is in the study? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted on the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my very distinguished colleagues among the rapporteurs, mr buzek! i would like to make a special point on energy research, which is the subject of european decisions for many years to come. the european parliament has no real influence on the bulk of the energy research funds allocated under the euratom treaty and, in fact, only a small part of the funds allocated under the seventh research framework programme. since mr chatzimarkakis has asked the public to do research, i have to tell you that the imbalance in the decisions taken there is not to be accounted for by the question 'what do the citizens think?' the fact that we spend most of the energy research funds on nuclear fusion, under euratom, without democratic control, is certainly out of date. nuclear fusion will not contribute to the lisbon objectives. for me, lisbon means that we want to make climate action effective and secure jobs and employment in the coming years. climate change through a technology that even the leading scientists say will not contribute to the energy supply in the next 40 or 50 years - how is that possible? climate targets must be met by 2020 or we can forget kyoto. a technology confined to a few very large research centres will not contribute to employment. we are trying to secure some of the funds under the seventh framework programme for research on efficiency and renewable energy - there are some interesting amendments here - but even this change to the pooling of funds for efficiency and renewable energy will not change the irresponsible imbalance in favour of nuclear research.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the vote is also a litmus test of whether the european union is a community of values or whether human dignity and human rights are in a dangerous dilemma. because if embryos are seen as a commodity, then there is a risk of an ethical breach. we have very successful alternatives: adult stem cells, umbilical cord blood cell research. it is not understandable that the eu should unnecessarily risk a rift with the european union. the cloning scandal in south korea has made it clear that a principle, namely the prohibition of the commercialization of the body, especially the female body, is also at risk. women are degraded to raw material suppliers of eggs. the itre proposal also carries the risk that it may even lead to the cloning of humans, since that is all that is provided for in the revision clause. i therefore urge that we do not open the door to the acceptance of embryonic stem cell research in member states where it is prohibited - this is a democratically questionable matter - and certainly not to the opening of the way to human cloning.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would also like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr jerzy buzek, for his months of work and his efforts to reach a workable compromise. i would like to make two points in this debate: first of all, i would like to talk about the european research council. the novelty of the seventh framework programme for research, which has been mentioned on several occasions, is the establishment of a european research council. as rapporteur for this research council, i am naturally particularly concerned about the success of this council, which depends in particular on its structure. we need this research council. it will make europe more attractive to top researchers. the council is intended to strengthen basic research. europe has neglected this area for too long in recent years, despite the breakthroughs made in basic research in particular. i would just like to remind you of inventions such as laser technology or x-rays or the mp3 player. all these are findings from basic research which we must exploit in a much more targeted and intensive way. another important point about the research council is that it must be transparent. the research council is given substantial funding. we are talking about an annual budget of about one billion euros. in view of this, i believe that a body should be set up to ensure transparency. this european research council cannot be a closed shop. i want to make it clear that i'm not interested in this research council being controlled. it must, of course, be independent and work independently, but its work must be comprehensible to the research community, to the policy-makers, to the decision-makers and to the public. the second point concerns the question of what is to be supported by european funds. the budget is comparatively small. we must therefore concentrate european research funding exclusively on cutting-edge research. the only criterion for selecting projects should therefore be excellence. in conclusion, we must not allow embryo research. we cannot allow embryos to be manufactured for research. i have tabled a compromise amendment on this subject which i am unable to implement now. it is amendment no 319 ; i would ask the house to support this motion.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to join in the thanks to jerzy buzek and to begin by saying something very positive about the european research framework programme: i had once, at the beginning of the debate in the committee, called together all the representatives of the universities and the business community in my region to discuss the framework programme with them. of course, there was also criticism of the bureaucracy and the lack of access to the framework programme for smes. after much criticism, a professor who has been involved in the framework programme for many years came forward and said that we should not only look at the negative aspects: the americans envied us this instrument. now, it's not perfect, but we shouldn't degrade the framework programme. the report by jerzy buzek addresses many of the criticisms. we have good proposals on smes and bureaucracy which we should support in the plenary. i think it's a good report overall, but in one place - this won't surprise you - i disagree. amendment no 66 on article 6 does not have my support. the amendment calls for eu funding to support research including consumer research on human embryos. this has been banned nationally in ten countries, partly after very intense discussion, partly after a referendum. the application also contains a review clause. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. however, this is only permitted in three countries of the european union. it's not like we have too much money in the framework programme. many good, uncontroversial projects are rejected. now, speaking of alzheimer's, we had a meeting a few weeks ago with the leading alzheimer's researcher in europe. he said he had many innovative approaches to fight alzheimer's. he did not mention embryonic stem cell research. that is why we should say yes to the alternatives, but a yes to amendment no 66 means that certain alternatives cannot be promoted. i therefore ask that amendment no 66 be rejected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take up a point raised by the commissioner. he expressed the hope that the research framework programme would bring the lisbon agenda back to the fore. i think he's absolutely right. the advantage of the european research framework programme and the european research area is that on the one hand it defines our research identity in the european union, but on the other hand it makes us part of an international development. on the whole, of course, we are thus promoting the competitiveness of the european union. there are at present a number of difficulties in the matter of stem cell research. there are efforts by some colleagues to try to achieve a kind of renationalisation in this field, in practice, whenever critical research is involved. i think that is very worrying. such renationalisation would in future affect many fields of research, such as nuclear research, security research, but also many other fields where there are ethical or other concerns in certain national states. i don't think we should do that. such renationalisation would not only be extremely damaging to the lisbon agenda but to the european union as a whole in the future. i hope that we will find broad agreement on the research framework programme. i would like to congratulate mr buzek, our shadow rapporteur and my colleague mr busquin.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the seventh framework programme for research will help to make the european union a little more competitive in our globalised world than it has been so far, but unfortunately only a little more competitive. we have not achieved and will not achieve many of the original objectives. just so there 's no misunderstanding . under the given conditions, jerzy buzek and his colleagues have made the most of the programme, but there is simply no doubling of research expenditure. the substantial increase in the budget compared with the sixth framework programme is a step in the right direction, but we are a long way from the doubling which was originally planned and which is urgently needed. other economies in the world have significantly higher rates of growth in research expenditure. so we're going to fall further behind. the consequences of this will be painful for us and will have long-term effects on prosperity, the labour market and social peace. we must concentrate the limited resources on a few priorities. we have formulated strategic objectives to which everything must be subordinated. we must regularly check whether we are achieving these objectives. we must ensure that research results do not rot in drawers or laboratories, but that our companies can turn these research results into added value and thus create jobs in europe. i have the impression that we have been far too bad in this area in recent years. in conclusion, i would call on the member states to invest structural fund funds in building up research and development capacity in their countries. the seventh framework programme can then really focus on excellence in research. at the same time, member states can invest additional funds in building up research and development capacity. if we want to maintain prosperity, jobs and social peace in europe in the future, the seventh research framework programme and the cip are a first step. but we have a long way to go, and we have to get better.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank mr buzek. he has the patience of europe younger people can only admire to put together such a work. i would like to take up the point made by mr van nistelrooij again. i think we have a big problem. we have defined the european research area in the framework programme for research, and this is due to the catch-up needs that exist in the candidate countries. but we all agree that in the global context a programme such as the research framework programme must promote the concept of excellence, because it will provide europe with the competitiveness we need to compete and also to have the money to build europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a second theme that was raised was that of smes. in the context of this discussion, it should be emphasized again that 70% of all patents and utility models in europe are filed by smes. we have to back that up. we need to find a way to support these companies more. in this context, the problem of the concept of small and medium-sized enterprises is repeatedly raised. the european union's concept of small and mediumsized enterprises is wrong, given the size of the european economy today. it covers too few companies. we are not really supporting the industrial smes any more, we are excluding them too much from the programmes. the third aspect which i think is important is the new programme of security research. we've implemented a program here that's rather atypical for research. i think we can agree that it is one of the key projects for the future in europe, not only in the light of terrorism, but also because it offers an opportunity for development in many areas. in this respect, we should look at the decision of the competition council to make massive cuts, if not the most massive cuts, in the trilogue. these cuts are extremely problematic.
mr busquin, the criticism has arrived and is being taken up.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to answer succinctly as many as possible of the concerns and issues raised. firstly, on behalf of the commission and personally, i should like to thank all the members for their cooperation and support, for which i am very grateful. the number of speeches made this morning clearly proves that much attention has been devoted to the issues concerned and sends a clear signal as to the importance of european research to the future of europe and to our lives and economies. i shall start with the budget and budgetary structure. the difference between the budgets that parliament and the council are proposing is now 2%, which is a very minor difference. i believe that we have a common understanding and that agreement on this point should be relatively easy. i would like to point out that one must be careful when comparing the sixth and seventh framework programmes, as these are structured differently and are sometimes difficult to compare. for example, in current prices, there is a 60% increase for actions under fp7, against one of 30% for the old continuity actions. therefore, an increase of over 30% for certain continuity actions means that we are actually making these clear priorities. twenty-five per cent of the actions are new, and approximately 75% of the actions are continuity actions. as regards thematic priorities, we must understand that these will also be addressed by the european research council, either now or in the future, but of course we do not know in advance what the structure of those thematic areas will be. turning to small and medium-sized enterprises, i honestly have nothing against 15%, but believe that this must come about through political change. that is why i advocate simplification and why i believe that the 15% or 25% additional funding we are offering to small and medium-sized enterprises should result in changes. that is why we must pay attention to their needs, particularly in the work programmes. concerning energy, it is clear – as a number of you quite rightly pointed out – that this is one of the major challenges we must address in the future. we all agree on this. however, the commission’s opinion is that the challenge is simply too serious for us to leave any potential area out of the research – from renewables to hydrogen fuel cells, clean coal, nuclear energy, smart networks and more efficient use of energy, etc. this a truly important issue, and on the subject of environmental challenges such as climate change, i would say that these are more serious than we are sometimes ready to admit. practically all our efforts in the field of research should move in a direction that makes our lives easier in the future. if we continue in the current direction we will be faced with some very serious challenges. i would like to make a few remarks regarding embryonic stem cell research and the european research council, which i talked about in my introduction. as regards embryonic stem cell research, if you ask any top scientist about this – as i have done recently – they will tell you that the right approach to addressing major health issues is through a combination of efforts from different sources and origins. that is their clear answer. i was asked a question on the eurobarometer on biotechnology. as you know, the commission regularly conducts eurobarometer public opinion surveys on issues relating to biotechnology. the 2006 version is currently being finalised and should be available in the next ten days. however, since the question put was a clear one, i can tell you that, as regards the views on embryonic stem cell research across europe, 55% of the population surveyed approved of this provided there was the usual government regulation or tighter regulation. seventeen percent did not approve, except under very special circumstances. only 9% did not approve under any circumstances, and 15% did not know. so, if one were to draw a line, 50% would approve this with tighter regulation, 25% would oppose it, some would allow it under very special circumstances, and 15% do not know. by the way, this is in line with the study published last year on social values as regards science and technology. this study found that over 90% of european citizens believe that medicines and new medical technologies will have a positive effect on our way of life over the next 20 years. i should say that we are aware of the differences that exist between different countries as regards what we are discussing today. this is not really a discussion about moral issues, but on whether we can establish a system at european level that strikes a balance between the very different national practices, bearing in mind ethical considerations. i truly believe that the commission’s proposal is going in the right direction. the european research council represents a major change of mindset in europe. that is why we should all be proud of what we are delivering. i want to try to convey to you how seriously i am taking this. last weekend professor kafatos and i were in the united states and met the presidents of the national science foundation and the national institute of health. i wanted him to be clearly visible on stage and for him to be seen as someone with whom they should correspond and cooperate in the future. i fully agree that the cohesion fund and the framework programme on competitiveness and innovation should be used hand in hand. therefore, i fully agree with the inclusion of the concerns of the less-developed regions. we have to improve capacities there. we have to do everything in terms of infrastructure so that they can compete as regards excellence, and we need this excellence because we are in a global race. it is crucial that we understand that. fisheries will be a cross-cutting issue on which special attention should be focused, and the commission has clearly underlined that. women are genuinely under-represented and we are trying to do our best to change that. technology platforms have vast potential. they have developed from research actions but have already outgrown that purpose and have a role to play as regards lead markets and the european institute of technology, etc. they will be a crucial factor. as regards simplification, this was one of the most difficult tasks i have ever undertaken, but we are pushing ahead as hard as possible on this. in reply to the question from mr van nistelrooij about the mid-term review of the structural funds, i cannot commit myself because this is not in my area. however, it is a proposal in which i have an interest and i see it as a logical proposal which is going in the right direction. as regards the point on education, we are trying to pay special attention to universities because we believe that they could do more than they are doing now and that sometimes we are not too benevolent towards them. in conclusion, time truly matters, as some of you have underlined. it is crucial that we deliver the programme on time, so that the implementation rates in 2007 are as high as in the past. that is very important because it is a political affirmation of research and development that would strengthen our hand in future debates, which also link into budgetary issues. we want to go beyond the framework programme and into the european research area. there has been a switch of direction in europe since the second world war to a knowledge-based economy. also, the rules for participation should be addressed very carefully because they are part of this timing issue and we should consider them carefully. the commission is willing to be flexible and constructive in this trialogue, and wants to make a success of our common endeavours. finally, i agree with those of you who feel that the budget should be higher, but at this moment the best thing is to focus on the delivery. if we focus on delivery we can prove that we need more financing in the future and that we can change european reality. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as in the last reform of the financial regulation in 2002, parliament voted only on the amendments at its march part-session and not on the legislative resolution. however, this formal resolution alone constitutes an official opinion of the european parliament within the meaning of the ec treaty. the rules of procedure of this house require that this dossier be presented to you again and again, ladies and gentlemen, until we have finally decided on it as a parliament. we are still waiting for another commission document on the important implementing provisions, which is due to be published at the beginning of july. until we have had a chance to examine this document, we cannot seriously vote on the budgetary procedure. i therefore ask again, as rapporteur, on behalf of the committee responsible, for referral back to the committee on budgets under rule 168 (1). we shall be presenting the legislative resolution to the plenary at one of the next plenary sessions so that negotiations with the council can be opened.
in writing. i would have liked to have kept the reference in the groundwater directive to the nitrates directive. this reference was extremely important for agriculture. the deletion by the house majority leads to unnecessarily high costs for agriculture and legal uncertainty as two directives now independently trigger measures with high nitrate impacts.
in writing. i would have liked to have kept the reference in the groundwater directive to the nitrates directive. this reference was extremely important for agriculture. the deletion by the house majority leads to unnecessarily high costs for agriculture and legal uncertainty as two directives now independently trigger measures with high nitrate impacts.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to congratulate mr adamou on his excellent, detailed and very good report. we have raised the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) in stockholm in time to be prepared for the tasks ahead. the european added value that we all love so much is clearly visible in the question of an influenza pandemic. common planning, common crisis management, common coordination, common logistics, common travel restrictions are being installed, common virostatics, common vaccines and common stockpiling are needed. solidarity in the event of disaster is there. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. in this context, there is an urgent need for an open, honest and rapid exchange of data within the member states. the ecdc and the commission are required to request and control the data. i should also like to thank the commission. i'm always very thrifty with gratitude, the more it weighs then. i would like to thank you very much for the rapid provision of 100 000 million euros in aid pledges both here and in the third world. i also want to thank my colleagues in the committee of the regions for their willingness to take up the pandemic under the solidarity fund. we all hope that a pandemic remains a fiction or a theoretical exercise and never happens. i'm glad, however, that we're well equipped for the possibility of a performance.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the visa facilitation for students and athletes is a first step. the return of illegal immigrants, on the other hand, is highly questionable. but the may summit did not answer many other questions. the modernization of the state apparatus, the economy and the army cannot succeed if there is no will on the part of the government and if predatory capitalism in search of profit with corrupt money is not interested in it. the rule of law and the democratization of the country are being prevented, and the violation of human rights in chechnya is tragic. the new ngo law restricts the rights of civil society and freedom of expression. critics of the regime are treated in a manner contrary to council of europe standards, political prisoners such as mikhail khodorkovsky and the seriously ill platon lebedev have been physically attacked and psychologically threatened. the legal system is under political control, the question of whether russia is a reliable energy supplier remains open. it is dangerous for europe to become too dependent. the dispute with ukraine over gas supplies earlier this year has clearly shown us that in the event of a conflict, europe could also be turned on its head. transparency and good governance are only mentioned, but not sufficiently reflected. the yukos case is an example of the government's need to disclose the state's entanglements and dependencies with the energy corporations. the eu has accused lukashenko of electoral fraud, authoritarianism and corruption in the elections in belarus. putin, on the other hand, congratulated his ally on the victory. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. russia is - and this is not just a phrase - an important and important neighbour, it now holds the presidency of the council of europe, the g8 presidency, but by virtue of its own weight, by virtue of its energy and other resources, and by virtue of its geographical location, we ourselves have a great interest in developing such a strategic partnership with russia accordingly. russia is no longer the soviet union, although it is not without problems in the process of transformation and in some patterns of behaviour. but we see how important russia can be in the iran issue. in this respect, having russia on board and forcing negotiations to prevent the possible construction of a nuclear bomb is an important argument for maintaining good relations with such a country. i believe that the summit on visa facilitation and readmission is also a good starting point for further progress in these areas and for further progress to be made next year in the context of the partnership and cooperation agreement. this is necessary in order to establish the partnership, to develop the strategy of the four areas and to achieve results, particularly in the field of energy security, because russia too must know that the partnership is only possible if it recognizes the freedom of all nations in the immediate neighbourhood and beyond, and also recognizes that they must not be victims of other considerations. we are naturally looking at russia with some concern because of internal developments, for example in terms of freedom of the press. is it wise to have again such a concentration of large companies, which are state-owned, which today bring in a lot of money because of high energy prices? can this lead to self-sustaining economic development? i have doubts, as does the question of human rights, which must be addressed. there are critical issues, but we should overcome them in dialogue, in order to be able to bring this partnership to life on this basis.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i see that time is almost up, but i can keep it short. i am actually in a very fortunate position to say after this very interesting debate that i do not agree with everything that has been said here, of course, but i do agree with a great deal. that is also very much in line with the council's position. i thank mr eurlings, mr wiersma; and mr schleicher, who is here to give us a good report. mr brok has also said a lot of things which i consider very important and essential, particularly as regards the question of partnership in international affairs. the question of iran has been mentioned here, and it is also important to remember, as mr kelam and mr andreyev have done, that russia holds the presidency of the council of europe and therefore must of course also comply with its commitments in the council of europe. we all know the ilaşcu case and we expect further progress to be made in this area, particularly during russia's presidency of the council of europe. i can only agree with the last speaker that ultimately a pragmatic approach, a partnership approach is important without giving up our principles. of course human rights must be addressed, they must be addressed clearly, but they must be addressed with an objective - not with the objective of achieving a break in relations, but with the objective of achieving something concrete, positive towards a better understanding of human rights. that is the aim of the council, that is the aim of the commission. i am pleased to note that, even after this debate, this is of course also the aim of the european parliament, and so i believe that if we work together we will be able to make something very positive out of this strategic partnership with russia, also in our own interests.
member of the commission. madam president, thank you for a very serious and substantive debate. i fully agree with mr winkler in that regard. mr eurlings and various members pointed out that we must not trade human rights for energy; i fully agree. we want both human rights and energy. how can we do that? we need principles, pragmatism and partnership. let me point out that in the field of human rights we have established a set of formal consultations and we have had three meetings since the launch of these consultations in 2005. by way of example, the latest meeting focused on four issues: firstly, on the russian law on non-governmental organizations; secondly, human rights in the military; thirdly, issues relating to the north caucasus; and fourthly, racism and xenophobia. we also held a preparatory meeting with human rights non-governmental organisations, which we deemed particularly useful. i want to inform you that we will be holding the next meeting of these consultations in november in moscow and will be pursuing the idea of closer involvement of ngos. we want to make these consultations more results-oriented in the future. i can assure you that the commission will keep human rights at centre-stage in our relations with russia, not least as we are talking about the country which currently holds the presidency of the council of europe. on energy, mr kelam referred to the interdependence between the eu and russia. we can also say that we not only have interdependence but also import dependence, since by 2020 the eu will have to import around 70% of the gas it consumes. according to current forecasts, russian production and export capacity will fall short of eu needs unless massive investment takes place in russia. we are therefore working to ensure that sufficient additional quantities of gas can come into the eu and we will have to look at all possible sources and routes, including turkey, incidentally. this requires strengthened cooperation and increased imports from russia, as well as from other countries. at the same time, let us keep the big picture in mind. one of europe’s greatest challenges will be to reduce dependence on energy imports and on fossil fuels. therefore, it is very important that our energy policy and the external aspects of europe’s common energy policy are very high on the agenda of the finnish presidency and, i trust, of all the future presidencies. reference was made to gazprom and its ambitions to purchase eu assets. in this regard the main concern within the eu is the apparent lack of a level playing field. eu companies which may invest in upstream assets in russia do not have the right to independently access the russian gas transportation infrastructure. within the eu, the right to access gas transportation infrastructure is enshrined in eu legislation. in this context, the rules applicable to gazprom, notably eu competition rules, would be no different to those applied to any other company. the fact that gazprom is the exclusive supplier of gas from russia to the eu would have to be taken into account in any objective analysis. reference was also made to free trade and the pca. i want to finish with this, because this is a very important strategic issue in eu-russia relations. the objective of a free trade agreement was already included in the pca when it was concluded in 1994. for a free trade agreement, russian accession to the wto is a prerequisite. in this regard, it is important to note that the wto accession process is now coming to its final phase and we expect that this condition will soon be met by russia. reference to a free trade agreement was made at the sochi summit for further exploration. our point of departure is that trade and economic integration will be core elements for the post-pca agreement and our intention is to set up a broader and deeper free trade agreement, some kind of ‘fda-plus’ achieving deeper free trade than normal, simple free trade agreements. let me conclude now, because i know that many colleagues have more important things to do. allez les bleus!
the debate was closed by the tabling of six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. i see a colleague in the field has a point of order. what rule of the rules of procedure do you wish to invoke?
we will then proceed to forward your request and your request in the hope that you will receive a corresponding response.
the next item is question time (b6-0224/2006). we shall deal with the following questions to the commission. part one
member of the commission. i noted the paragraph in the report we were discussing earlier today, but the fact remains that at this stage we feel that we already have the structures and mechanisms to take advantage of the knowledge, expertise and experience on both animal and human health, which is why adding one more body at this point would not offer any advantages but might, on the contrary, pose problems. i assure you that our criterion is purely a practical one and that we evaluate the best way to obtain practical results. we have no objection to the idea as such; it is just that we feel this point would not offer any practical advantages.
member of the commission. the commission is aware of the problems experienced by consumers in connection with car hire and we have legislation that could help to a certain extent. one such piece of legislation is the one on unfair terms of consumer contracts. it provides relevant protection. the implementation of these provisions lies, of course, with the member states. nevertheless, even these provisions do not offer sufficient protection, especially in relation to difficulties where pressure and unfair business practices generally are involved. for example, the honourable member refers to complaints from consumers who have been under pressure to take out expensive insurance. we have new legislation in place. as you know, last year we adopted the legislation on unfair commercial practices. this covers pressure selling. its provisions will come into force at the beginning of next year and it regulates aggressive commercial business, both misleading practices and aggressive practices. one advantage of this directive is that it has a list of criteria helping to determine whether a commercial practice involves harassment, coercion, including physical force, or undue influence, but also of course misleading representations. at the same time, i would like to inform the honourable member that we are currently in the process of conducting a review of eight of the consumer directives. some of them could be relevant to car hire. one which is very important is the one on distance selling. unfortunately, based on a ruling of the court of justice, this does not cover car hire. therefore we have included these directives in our review, but will also examine, through consultations, whether it is useful and necessary to amend this directive so as to cover car hire under these provisions, that is, distance selling. we are gathering evidence in this respect and are discussing it with stakeholders. the outcome of this debate and consultation will determine whether we should amend this directive. if this happens, then we will fill one gap in the legal protection of consumers when they rent cars from a distance.
member of the commission. very briefly, i agree with the honourable member. we are in the process of reviewing the acquis and working on the distance selling directive – which has a problem, admittedly. that does not mean that the other two directives do not offer protection to a certain extent, which is why it is important for parliament and the commission to raise the issue with the member states who are in charge and have responsibility for the implementation of community legislation.
member of the commission. i think mr harbour is trying to get me into trouble. every time we deal with the services directive it is always a risky business! i shall be very happy to take up this issue with my colleague mr mccreevy, who is in charge of the services directive. i see it more from the consumer protection point of view, which is what i referred to earlier. the reason for the exclusion of car hire from our directives is that it is considered to be a transport issue, therefore it has to be dealt with specifically under that legislation. but i shall be very happy to take up this suggestion with my colleague and see how we can make sure that both consumers and the industry benefit from european legislation.
as they concern the same subject, the following questions will be dealt with jointly: question no 54 by zbigniew krzysztof kuzmiuk (h-0428/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: ban on food imports to russiathe ban on polish food imports to russia has been in place for almost half a year. since the ban was imposed, there have been talks on its abolition, but these have so far only led to even more stringent demands from the russian side. the commission has agreed to help resolve the conflict, but so far it seems to be playing a passive role. the losses of polish exporters now amount to several hundred million euros. it should be noted that this estimate only refers to the half-yearly revenues from imports to russia and not to the consequential loss of this russian market segment, which will be very difficult for polish companies to recover in the future. there are many reasons to believe that the real trigger for the current situation is the permanent blockade of the russian market for polish food producers. during the last round of talks on 26 april 2006, the russian side requested that poland, inter alia, establish separate border crossings for the import of polish agricultural products into russia. this demand, which is disproportionate to the alleged wrongdoing of polish suppliers and which cannot be accepted by poland for obvious reasons, provides further evidence that the russian side is deliberately imposing unenforceable conditions on poland. the commission is obliged under the accession treaties to intervene in such a situation. what concrete measures will the commission take in view of this situation and when? question no 59 by mr czarnecki (h-0484/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: embargo on polish meat exports to ukraine and russiawhat action has the commission taken on behalf of the eu to lift the absurd embargo on polish meat exports to ukraine and russia?
member of the commission. as i am sure that the honourable member is aware, the lateral timetable set by the mauritania transition authorities is as follows: referendum on 25 june, municipal and legislative elections on 19 november, senatorial elections on 21 january 2007 and presidential elections on 11 march 2007 (first round) and 25 march 2007 (second round). this 19-month schedule is tighter than the 24-month period initially planned by the military council for justice and democracy. its aim is a return to constitutional and democratic rule by the end of may 2007 at the latest. when consultations were opened under article 96 of the cotonou agreement, mauritania gave undertakings in the areas of respect for democratic principles, fundamental rights and freedoms, the rule of law and good governance. the european union declared its willingness to provide support for the implementation of these undertakings and decided to support the transition process in mauritania during the consultation period itself by means of institutional support projects. in particular, a eur 6 million technical support project for the electoral processes was drawn up by the commission and approved in april 2006. the european community’s financial contribution of approximately 75% of total donor contributions will be implemented by the un development programme. the project’s specific objective is to strengthen the capacities and resources of the national independent electoral commission, the ministry of justice and civil society. it is also aimed at helping to ensure that the elections are free, fair and transparent, are conducted efficiently and lead to results that are nationally and internationally recognised and legitimate. regarding observation of the electoral processes, the commission plans to send a team of electoral experts in early june 2006 - around now - to help with the constitutional referendum and, in july, a fact-finding mission to assess the advisability, usefulness and feasibility of future observation missions as well as, if necessary, electoral observation missions to observe the general and municipal elections in november 2006 and the presidential elections in march 2007. as you know, mauritania is not a member of either ecowas, which it left in 2000 or uemoa, but it is member of the arab-magreb union. the country takes part in the barcelona euro-mediterranean dialogue as an observer, and formally applied for membership at the end of may 2005. no response to that request can be given before the country returns to constitutional and democratic rule.
member of the commission. the commission attaches great importance to the rights of freedom of religion, belief and expression in its dialogues with third countries. freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief is one of the fundamental human rights and, as such, is enshrined in a number of international instruments, including the universal declaration of human rights, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the european convention on human rights. in addition, the eu charter of fundamental rights makes clear that everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and that cultural, religious and linguistic diversity should be respected. respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law underpins the cotonou partnership signed by the acp states and the community and its member states. article 8 of the agreement indicates the topics on which regular political dialogues should focus, referring specifically to ethnic, religious and racial discrimination. there is no state religion in nigeria. in 1999, the constitution provided for freedom of thought, conscience and religion and the federal government generally respects those freedoms. the constitution also prohibits state and local government from adopting an official religion. however, state governors have great autonomy and it is alleged that islam has been adopted de facto as a state religion in several northern states. the return of nigeria to democracy in 1999 has seen an improvement in the human rights situation, but it has also seen an increase in tensions and violent conflicts, which currently provide the most threatening challenges to the new democratic nigeria. in this complex and unstable situation, the commission has been trying to identify the most common causes of conflicts with the objective of helping to address and prevent them. conflicts and violence have historically marked relationships between muslims and christians, particularly in the central states, where communities of different religions are numerically equivalent. it is generally not possible to cast muslims or christians systematically in the role of aggressor or victim, as they have historically been both. it is apparent, however, that conflicts always involve extremely poor people and that conflicts presented as religiously motivated are often triggered by other causes, including conflicts between traditional rulers, land and resource struggles amongst communities, political in-fighting, and tensions between state and federal governments. the significance of the tension between indigenes and non-indigenes is crucial to understanding the frequent cause of conflicts in nigeria. a recent report by human rights watch, 'they do not own this place', blames the federal government policies that discriminate amongst non-indigenes, defined as people who, no matter how long they have lived in an area, cannot trace their origins to the ethnic and genealogical roots of the original inhabitants of that area. in a country with more than 250 ethnic groups, these discriminatory practices spreading at state and local government level have relegated millions of nigerians to the status of second-class citizens, increased poverty and created the conditions for intercommunal violence. according to father george ehusani, secretary-general of the catholic secretariat of nigeria, interviewed by human rights watch, 'poverty in nigeria has assumed the moral character of war and that is what you see reflected in much of the ethnic violence in this country'. the commission and the eu member states are engaged in regular dialogue in nigeria to promote respect for human rights, basic freedoms and the rule of law among communities, religious and ethnic groups, state and federal authorities. since the first niger delta crisis in november 2004, regular visits of the eu heads of mission have been organised to various areas: the niger delta, some northern states and some middle-belt states. while one of the focal sectors of eu development cooperation with nigeria is supporting and promoting good governance at federal and state level, the commission is also engaged in financing community projects in the niger delta and is about to approve a project to support non-state actors. moreover, the ec budget lines have for years been financing projects to promote democracy and human rights.
thank you very much for the very good and very detailed answer. i also like mrs kroes much more than mr michel, which is not mr michel's fault, but mrs kroes's. i would still like to ask the question why he is not here today. my second question is: what is the commission doing to deal specifically with the introduction of sharia law in some of the states of nigeria and to deal also with specific acts of violence such as the killing of christians or the burning of churches in the central states, which you have already mentioned?
member of the commission. you can be assured that this is something very important for my colleague. mr michel is most fond of the debates in your house, so i am not aware what the specific reason is, but i am absolutely sure that if he could have made it then he would have done, but i think he is travelling, perhaps to the regions you are interested in. i want to underline that the commission is fully engaged in the effort to combat extremism of all types through its overall efforts to address the root causes of discontent and to promote peace, stability and security through its development cooperation and assistance. in addition, it is engaged in numerous specific initiatives to promote peaceful coexistence between peoples, as well as inter-religious and intercultural understanding. political dialogue with the central government and support to institutional development is a main issue.
member of the commission. the european community's efforts to fight hiv/aids in africa are financed by the european development fund and the budget of the european community. within the framework of national and regional programming, the edf finances projects to fight aids and projects aimed at strengthening healthcare systems. since 2002, 15 national projects and three regional projects to fight aids and/or strengthen healthcare systems have been initiated in 13 countries and in the acp region, representing a total commitment of eur 244.6 million. the edf also supports the implementation of national poverty reduction plans and therefore, directly or indirectly, the fight against aids by providing general budget support. since 2002 the commission has provided general budget support to 24 african countries with commitments representing around eur 2.4 billion. already eur 1.5 billion of that has been spent. the european community's budget has a thematic budget line to help combat poverty-related diseases – not only aids, but also malaria and tuberculosis in developing countries. the budget line is based on regulation 1568/2003. since 2002 the commission has allocated on that line more than eur 86.2 million to ngos as a contribution to 25 projects combating hiv/aids being implemented in 16 african countries. a total of eur 9.42 million has also been allocated to two research projects: one in central africa and the other in southern africa. a total of eur 5 million has been allocated to large-scale awareness programmes, as well as to international partnerships, such as the international partnership for microbicides and the international aids vaccine initiative. a second budget line relating to health, reproductive and sexual rights in developing countries, based on regulation 1567/2003, also contributes to the fight against aids. eur 73.95 million is available on this line for 2003-2006. since 2003, the commission has been able to allocate on this line eur 17.5 million for 10 projects for the fight against aids implemented in eight african countries. the commission's budget also finances projects to combat aids and strengthen healthcare systems in south africa, on the basis of regulation 1726. since 2002, three projects are being undertaken in south africa for a total amount of eur 55 million. the edf and ec budget are the two sources of ec contributions to the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria. the european commission has contributed eur 522 million to the global fund since the latter's creation in 2001, and this amount has been supplemented by contributions from eu member states. we are the leading donor to the gffatm; 57% of the funds go to the fight against hiv/aids and 55% are allocated to african countries. moreover, the european community is devoting increasing funds to research programmes targeting aids, tuberculosis and malaria. for the period 2002-2006, the financing devoted to these three diseases, most of which funds go to hiv/aids, quadrupled, reaching eur 400 million currently. half of those funds are managed by the european community, dg research, and the other half, to which is added eur 400 million from eu member states and the private sector, are funnelled through the european and developing countries' clinical trial partnership. the commission does not have any details on aid from the member states to african countries in the fight against hiv/aids because this information has not been made available to us.
member of the commission. i gather from the papers that discussions are being held. however, i should like you to permit me, madam president, to ask my colleague to give you a written answer that is to the point and states precisely what stage the discussions have reached.
questions which have not been dealt with for reasons of time will be answered in writing (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.05 p.m.)
on behalf of the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i must apologise to mr gargani, who is ill and therefore unable to be here today. i have been asked by the group of the european people's party to represent him here today as rapporteur and to explain the content of this report. let me start by saying that this decision of the european court of justice at least for me was not a surprise. there were many who thought that this would not happen, but for me it was only logical, because we have had very different approaches in the way the european commission has made legislative proposals in the criminal justice area in the past. i would simply point out from my practical experience in the field of economic law that in the past, for example, in the directives on money laundering or also in the directives on market abuse or in the provisions on insider trading, directives proposed on the basis of legal bases of the first pillar have often contained at least elements of criminal law. it is indeed quite correct that the court has in the past very often - even if the cases were different - followed the principle that, in determining which legal basis is decisive, the objective pursued by the whole proposal is always decisive. it was therefore quite natural that the court should now, in this context, have held, on the basis of a concrete example from environmental law, that it was not possible, here too, to split up acts which were in fact interrelated in such a way that certain aspects were allocated to a field of the treaties other than the actual objective originally pursued by them, in so far as that objective was to be attributed to the first pillar. so the result is not surprising to me. but what are the consequences now? first of all, this does not change the fact that criminal law remains primarily the responsibility of the member states, at national level, and that europe has only exceptional competence in this area. in this context, i also believe that it is wise for the european legislator, who may now use this instrument but does not necessarily have to, to exercise restraint in the matter of criminal law. we must decide on a case-by-case basis in each specific situation: do we need criminal law provisions to achieve this objective, or do we not need them, or is it better to leave it to the member states to decide and regulate these matters? so, from the point of view of the legislator, whether it is the parliament or the council, restraint is in order. and this is mainly because i simply believe - and this is why the treaties have basically left the competence in the field of criminal law in the competence of the member states - that the system of national criminal law in europe is very, very different. it starts with the rules of sentencing, but also with the rules of enforcement. there are member states where the sentence is enforced, there are member states which, as a rule, have only a 50% penalty, there are those which have a penalty of two thirds, there are those which additionally have secondary consequences which are punitive in nature and which do not exist in this form in other member states. i think that if europe starts to introduce uniform penalties beyond what is necessary on all sorts of issues, then the consequence would be that we would have unsystematic interference in the criminal law of the member states. it's doubtful that makes sense. we should exercise a certain restraint for this reason in particular. i think that is what is being done in the report which mr gargani has presented and which has been accepted by the committee, and that is essentially what it is about. we also support the commission's attempt to analyse in detail the proposals which need to be revised because they no longer comply with the case law of the court of justice, where we have had the separation into two different acts, and then to make concrete proposals on how this can be adapted. as regards the amendments tabled after the decision in the legal affairs committee, i can state for my group that some of these amendments, in particular those tabled by the socialists and liberals, are acceptable, others are not. i am not going to go into details, as i have already discussed this with the rapporteur, but on the whole i find that there are no fundamental differences in the assessment of these questions in the legal affairs committee. the problems are more in the nuances, perhaps in the question of how far one can go in each individual case. but otherwise there was a great deal of agreement in the committee on this question. i thank you very much for your attention.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank mrs roure for this report, which has already been appreciated by some of my colleagues. i think we have produced a really excellent inter-group paper, also in view of the fact that long before i was elected to this parliament, colleagues had already made efforts and repeatedly stressed the need for such a report. the report is much more urgent than ever, especially in the face of the modern information age. if you think about it, the amount of data stored by european authorities is not hundreds of thousands, it is not millions, it is billions of data sets that interfere with the individual personality of each individual by storing information that, if maliciously intended, which i will not submit to any state, can be linked together, with which i can create profiles that i can use to identify the behaviour of unloving citizens. the report is all the more urgent because these data volumes are still growing. we have not only existing systems such as eurodac or apis which are yet to come into force. we have the visa information system, which is being redeveloped. we have sis, the second generation schengen information system, and we may soon have the third pillar, the storage and transmission of passenger data. so these billions of records are going to grow. in addition, the commission's communication on interoperability and synergy and efficiency of european databases also aims to link these databases to each other, so that the exchange will be much easier once the technical problems have been overcome. but the problem is that people who want to protect data are often put in a corner, like they're some kind of blasters who are unable to balance fundamental rights and security rights in any reasonable way. thank god that this parliament has not allowed itself to be pushed into the corner in this case, that we would be playing fundamental rights against security rights, because the lack of fundamental rights definitely endangers the security of the population. i am very grateful to mrs roure for doing an enormous job for us as liberals, too, for having accepted an incredible number of amendments and proposals put forward by the european data protection commissioner, peter hustinx. we were on the same page. the european parliament does not have many swords, and i think that is what mrs roure has already said. but the importance of this report is shown by the willingness to withhold sis and vis where necessary.
the president of the council. mr president, mr president of the commission, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in a few days, i would almost say hours, the austrian presidency of the council will reach a climax. the european council will take place and will give us the opportunity to deal with, discuss and record the results of a whole series of issues which the austrian presidency of the council has undertaken to address. there are many issues that have been raised during the austrian presidency. there are also many problems and issues which, during the austrian presidency of the council, have often been brought to the attention of the european parliament, together with you. the european council is therefore going to be very diverse. i must therefore confine myself to a few brief remarks on many subjects. i do not claim to be exhaustive either, because of course i do not want to interfere too much in the speaking time of the members of this house. the forthcoming summit will be a working summit. there is no single epoch-making decision to be made, but the harvest of the austrian presidency will be - if it has not already been reaped - just outside the barn door. the barn door is wide open, and we want to bring in this crop. the austrian presidency has taken a two-pronged approach in the last weeks and months to take europe forward. this is also true of the forthcoming european council. on the one hand, it was about addressing concrete issues in order to make progress on those issues that are closest to people: issues of prosperity, economic growth, job security, internal and external security, social security, energy security and much more. the second was to revive the debate on the future of europe, which had been suspended. this dual approach - concrete issues, the future of europe - will also shape the european council's agenda. the council's agenda will therefore first include a number of issues on which all those involved agree that they require european solutions, issues which confront our societies and our citizens with problems which, in our globalised world, can only be tackled in a meaningful way by all the member states of the european union - and i would add, by all the institutions of the european union - working together. the first major topic is the question of the area of security, freedom and justice. here all the polls show - including those of the commission, and vice-president wallström has said this time and again - that the citizens want more europe, expect more from europe, particularly in this area. a number of concrete progresses have been made in this area over the past six months. i would like to mention briefly the counter-terrorism strategy, the enlargement of the schengen area and the conclusion of visa facilitation and readmission agreements with various third countries. we have also invested a great deal of time and energy in these six months in an external strategy in the area of justice and home affairs, in which we have started to build a security belt around the european union, so to speak, and have initiated a security partnership between the european union, our neighbouring countries, and russia and the united states. this vienna initiative for a trilateral summit between the eu, russia and the usa will also be reflected in the conclusions of the european council. the issue of migration was and is of particular importance, and the council will also deal with it on the basis of a number of specific cases. for time reasons, i cannot go into too much detail. this important issue would warrant a debate of its own, in which we have to deal with it from different angles, not only in terms of the fight against illegal immigration and in terms of police and judicial cooperation, but also in terms of development issues. as someone who has also been responsible for development issues during these six months, i can say that we have been very much involved in the european union's development strategy on migration, and that this is an important approach that we must not lose sight of in our public presentation of this problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. all that i have said so far is, of course, a work in progress. the european council is therefore expected to give the mandate to work consistently in all these areas. the eu is also committed to improving its disaster and crisis response capacity. austria has been particularly active in this area during the months of its presidency. the european council will be presented with a report on progress made and recommendations for further action. the former commissioner and foreign minister, michel barnier, has presented a very comprehensive, stimulating and forward-looking report which will certainly be examined in detail by all the institutions of the european union in the coming weeks and months. it contains a number of good suggestions on how to solve this problem in the interests of the safety of citizens. another very important issue, for which pan-european solutions are also the only viable option, is sustainable development. the european union has, as you know, since 2001 - the gothenburg european council - adopted a strategy to ensure that all decisions are taken in a responsible manner with regard to natural resources. the guide has now been completely renewed under the austrian presidency and developed into an ambitious and comprehensive new strategy covering a whole range of key areas such as climate change, clean energy, transport, emphasis on sustainable consumption and production patterns, etc. the issue of climate change is also on the agenda in this context. the question of the lisbon strategy is of course also an important subject for the european council, which will now be held in brussels. the european council - as chancellor schüssel was able to report on this point - had already dealt with this strategy in detail in march and set out a number of concrete guidelines. since then, two important milestones have been reached: the compromise on freedom to provide services, for which the council - and i should like to make this quite clear - is very grateful to the european parliament, and the agreement in principle on the seventh framework programme for research. the council has largely followed the european parliament's compromise on the services directive. it is a good example of how the european union's institutions - when they work well and efficiently together - can make real progress in the interests of our citizens. the austrian presidency is particularly grateful to parliament for this. the question of energy policy will of course also be an important subject for the european council. the subject has been discussed and discussed on a number of occasions, including in relation to third countries. i had the opportunity yesterday to report on the summit with the russian federation. as far as the council's discussion was concerned, the focus was on the need for internal measures, such as increasing energy efficiency and the switch to renewable energy sources. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the commission and secretary-general solana have drawn up a strategy paper on behalf of the european council which will be submitted to the european council. another issue on which - as the polls show - citizens also expect more europe is the question of foreign policy, the external relations of the european union. the majority of european citizens want the european union to play a major role on the international stage. the european union, despite the progress made in recent years - and i believe that progress is considerable - still does not have the weight it should have because of its economic strength and its contribution to world trade. there are still a number of shortcomings to be overcome and the european commission has thankfully prepared a concept paper on this subject, which contains a number of proposals. i am sure that the president of the commission will also be speaking on this. the council's agenda also includes, of course, a better functioning union. the european council's somewhat grandiose title is intended to show that it is committed to achieving concrete progress that is also measurable for the individual citizen. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives, which i should like to mention briefly. one initiative which is very close to the heart of the austrian presidency - and i may add that it is also very close to my own heart - is the question of transparency in the council. these efforts are not new. there has been some progress in this direction. we have now tried, as the austrian presidency of the council, to find an overall approach which is supposed to create, so to speak, a new sense of transparency. the essence of this proposal is to make the entire codecision procedure open to the public at all stages. we believe that this can also lead to greater confidence among citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the issue of subsidiarity was an important one, because we need, beyond a sense of transparency, undoubtedly a greater awareness of subsidiarity. i want to make it quite clear, because i know that scepticism is also expressed here in parliament: this is not about renationalization. i would like to make it clear that our presidency was guided by a different objective. the aim is to help european action to focus on the areas where it can add value. the austrian presidency of the council organised a conference in st. pölten in mid-april entitled 'europe starts at home', at which parliament was prominently represented. you know the interesting proposals that have been put forward. it is important for us now that this issue has a fixed place on the agenda and that it is kept in mind even more consciously than before. i am only half-hearted in saying that we have made - and i hope we will make - substantial progress on the question of comitology. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if this proposal, which we worked out yesterday between the negotiators, is now valid both in the council and in parliament, we have made progress here, which, although a delicate subject, is important for our cooperation. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. the reflection phase decided by the european council last june has led to more or less intensive initiatives in many member states to launch a real debate on the european project. the question of european identity was also examined from different angles. i recall the 'sound of europe' event at the beginning of the austrian presidency. and i also remember an event which i think can be described as a success - the café d'europe (europacafé), which was held simultaneously in all the capitals on europe day. the commission has also been very active in developing its plan d. i would like to thank vice-president wallström in particular for the good cooperation. we have had good cooperation with the commission in the interests of greater transparency and greater attention to the wishes and expectations of the citizens. it is clear that the member states would like to extend this reflection period for at least another year in one form or another. the european council will be discussing the precise modalities and the way forward and will make proposals accordingly. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the treaty of rome. it was not a given that this debate could be revived. we worked hard and finally, at the end of may, we were able to hold a foreign ministers' debate on this subject for the first time in over a year. as one of the participants in this discussion, i can say that it was very open, very extensive and very useful and that in many respects it clarified the way forward, even though no concrete decisions could be reached. it has become clear to all of us that the problems which the constitutional treaty is intended to solve remain on the common agenda of the european union and that we must continue to pursue the constitutional project as a common european project. it was also clear at the foreign ministers' meeting in klosterneuburg that the time had not yet come for a final solution to the legal questions relating to the constitutional treaty, because not all member states were ready to do so. it will therefore be a common task of the union and a special task for the next presidencies to ensure that by 2009 we have clarity on the legal basis of the future union. the year 2009 is important for several reasons: this year will not only see a new european parliament, but also some institutional challenges, such as a new composition of the commission. the european council will be giving a mandate for this, and if so, what time-frame will be set, and how it will be dealt with, is not yet clear; the heads of state and government will discuss it and take the appropriate decisions. i believe that this will certainly be one of the main topics of the forthcoming european council. the austrian presidency of the council is clear on one thing: we must make progress together with all the member states and all the institutions on the essential questions of the future of the european union. finally, there is the enlargement of the eu, another subject which will be dealt with prominently at the european council. i do not want to go into the individual states. you are aware of the state of play of the various negotiations with bulgaria and romania, which we all hope will join on 1 january 2007. you have probably seen the progress made the day before yesterday at the accession conferences with turkey and croatia, with all the problems that have arisen, particularly in the case of turkey. the foreign ministers in klosterneuburg succeeded in reaching some agreement on the next common approach. the heads of state or government will continue this discussion and determine how to proceed in the coming months. it is likely that in the second half of the year the commission will, among other things, prepare a contribution to the debate on the accessibility of the european union, as requested by the european parliament. the western balkans chapter will also be mentioned in the european council conclusions. you know that this was a very special focus of the austrian presidency of the council. this issue is seen in the context of a peace and stability policy in the balkans. we will refer once again to the salzburg declaration of the foreign ministers and the prospect of eu membership for the western balkan countries contained therein. the european council will address a number of foreign policy issues and make statements on the western balkans, iran, iraq, lebanon, the middle east and the african strategy. you see, there is a rich menu for our heads of state and government and for the president of the commission. we have - i hope you will agree with me - worked hard over the past few months to make progress on all these important issues, and we hope that the european council can conclude on some issues and initiate further discussion on others, which must be held in the near future in the interests of europe and our citizens. (applause from the centre)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, one year after the start of the reflection period, it is time to take stock. where are we? what can we do to move europe forward? what can we expect from the european council? i will begin by saying that europe is haunted by a spectre: the spectre of european pessimism. if we had the traditional euroscepticism of those who never wanted europe as a political project, we now have the pessimism of those who consider themselves convinced europeans and who very often sink into a state of "chrisophilia", each one wanting to show today that he knows better than the other the causes of the deep crisis europe is going through. what is the cause of this euroscepticism? to a large extent, this is the shadow of the negative referendums in two of our member states. this shadow cast doubt on europe and on europe's ability to define a common life project. that is one of the reasons why we must find a solution to the constitutional question. i want to say this without any ambiguity. we in the european commission are in favour of the principles, values and substance of the constitutional treaty. the question is, first of all, why do we need this constitutional text? what do we lose if we don't have a constitutional treaty? we are losing a clarification of competences between the different levels, we are losing the extension of co-decision and the extension of qualified majority voting, we are losing the legally binding charter of fundamental rights, we are losing a union minister for foreign affairs who would at the same time be the vice-president of the commission, we are losing more effective action in areas such as public health, food security and even energy, because the constitution extended competences in this area. we also lose an extra layer of coherence on the outside. and on this point i would like to say to you - the experience of a year and a half as president of the commission confirms this - that we in europe absolutely need what the constitutional treaty brought to the external sphere: more efficiency, more democracy, more coherence. the current treaties do not allow us to achieve all these objectives fully. let's be clear, nice is not enough. (applause) the question is how do we get past this? can we solve this problem by talking about the constitution every day? can we solve this problem by simply taking a pragmatic approach? i say no, i say we must avoid two traps. firstly, the trap of saying, as some would like, that the constitution is dead, let us do something purely concrete: that would be dangerous for europe. i would also like to say that it would be dangerous for europe if we were to allow ourselves to be locked into a purely institutional or constitutional debate, if we were to pretend that we are now stuck waiting for a constitutional solution. that is why we must proceed on two levels, as we said in our document of 10 may on the double track approach. at the first level, a europe of results, a europe of concrete projects, but - and this is the second level - a europe of results which is not opposed to, or an alternative to, political europe, but which is, on the contrary, a condition for citizens to accept europe as a major political project. so it is not a question of choosing between the europe of results and the institutional europe, it is a question of choosing both. we need a europe of projects, of results, to have a great project for europe. what is the europe of results that we are proposing? we have already achieved some results. that is why i cannot agree with all those who say that europe is completely broken. i think they are unwittingly reinforcing this crisis. i understand that analysts have to say this, but as political leaders, we have a responsibility. do you really think that we will restore the citizens' trust simply with negative messages? no, you can't! to move europe forward, we must be renewed with hope, with confidence and show progress. the truth is that even after the two negative referendums, we were able to settle the budgetary question for the next seven years, and that for 27 countries. we have nevertheless been able, thanks to the collaboration of the european parliament, to find a political solution to the very controversial problem of the services directive. we have nevertheless been able to relaunch the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. we have launched - something unthinkable two years ago - a common energy strategy for europe. so let us continue to make progress on the basis of concrete projects. let us achieve results to create the right moment to deal with the institutional question. in our document of 10 may we made some concrete proposals. i do not want to go into the details of these proposals again, but i will mention a few. see what's wrong with the single market to defend consumers in europe. the european council in brussels in december 1995 called for the creation of a european market for the sale of goods and services. taking stock of our social sphere: what are the obstacles to a more united europe? at the same time as we are making progress on the market question, we must also make progress on the social question. on the basis of existing treaties, make progress in the areas of justice, cooperation, the fight against terrorism and crime. it is possible, on the basis of the current treaties, to do more in the area of immigration, to combat illegal immigration, while at the same time dealing with the issues of legal migration. it's a major issue. if the member states want to do more, they can do so on the basis of the treaties themselves. so it is not just a question of institutional matters, it is also a question of political will. let us therefore make progress in the area of justice and security. these are areas where european citizens are asking member states to do more, because it is clear today that we cannot fight terrorism, that we cannot face the challenges of illegal migration on our own: we must work together. much more can be done in the field of the external dimension. the right solution is the one in the constitution: a minister for foreign affairs, vice-president of the commission. we must pool our capacities and resources in external relations, but since we do not yet have a constitution, the commission presented a document a few days ago containing concrete proposals to strengthen the efficiency, coherence and external visibility of the european union. we have also made important proposals on subsidiarity, transparency and better regulation for europe. there is a set of concrete projects, not to mention the two main areas which, i believe, are shaping europe's future: energy, following the green paper we have presented, and research. those are two big priorities. the truth is that our research budget is up 60% over the next seven years compared to the previous period. that is why we have proposed the creation of a european institute of technology, based on a network, to give a european vocation to our research achievements and to attract the best researchers in the world. why are the best european researchers in the united states today? why are we not able to attract the best researchers from china, india, latin america or the usa here in europe? we also need a flagship project to mobilise our research capacity. so let us rally around some concrete projects that can restore confidence in europe: this is the europe of projects. but the europe of projects is not enough; we must also deal with the institutional question. what do we propose to do about it? we propose to move from the so-called reflection period to a commitment period. the first important step is next year when we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the european community, the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome. i do not believe that the heads of state or government can let the 50th anniversary of our union pass without committing themselves to this project of living together. there are two possibilities: either we make a declaration that looks only to the past, in other words a simple commemoration, or we make a declaration that looks to the future, a form of renewal of our commitment to our project of living together. as president of the commission, i believe it is my duty to ask the heads of state and government, who are the shareholders in our projects, to renew their commitment. i believe that you too, as members of the european parliament, will have the right to ask our heads of state and government if they want to invest in this project of living together which is, today more than ever, necessary in this globalised world. that's what we're gonna do. that is why i have proposed a declaration which is not simply a new declaration by messina. you remember the messina declaration, after the failure of the european defence community; it was the european union that gave europe a new lease of life and later the european economic community. it was signed by the foreign ministers. today that is no longer possible. i've already said it. europe will not be bureaucratic, nor technocratic, nor merely diplomatic: europe must be democratic. that is why all the institutions of europe must be involved and that is why i propose that this declaration be signed not only by the heads of state and government but also by the commission and the european parliament, which today has a central position in the process of european construction. (applause) i would like to thank if we succeed in doing so, if we put all our energy into it, we shall have an opportunity next year to relaunch the process of european constitution, of building a europe which is an enlarged europe, which implies a debate on enlargement. i do not believe in a miniature europe, i do not believe in a europe divided into several speeds, i do not believe that the answer to the present situation, to the difficulties facing europe, is to say 'let's divide ourselves'. are we going to let some make europe more advanced while leaving others behind? i don't think it was. (applause) i would like to thank i believe it is our duty to do everything possible to make the enlarged europe work. and i'm telling you with some experience already. if i compare what was happening in 1992, for example, when we were negotiating with our american, chinese, russian or other partners, i can tell you that today europe is more respected outside its borders than it was before. the enlarged europe is a prerequisite for a powerful europe. let us have a debate on enlargement. we recognize that there are doubts in some of our public opinions about the pace and the importance of enlargement. let us have a debate on absorption capacity, but with a focus on the added value that enlargement has already brought to europe. that is the europe i wish to see. a wider europe, an open europe, a more competitive europe, a europe which is much more than a market, a europe which has a political project, and a political project which is based on the idea of solidarity because without solidarity, the very idea of the union does not exist. this is the great project for europe in the 21st century. not a closed europe, not a miniature europe, but a large enlarged europe that is able to shape globalisation, instead of suffering the consequences. that is the great project for europe. to achieve this, it is essential that political leaders break out of the vicious circle of europe-pessimism and start building the virtuous circle of trust, with concrete results, of course, but also with this great vision of our great europe. (applause) i would like to thank
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the speeches by the president of the council and the president of the commission give the impression that the european constitution is not dead but very much alive and that there is a common will to bring this important european project to a successful conclusion. i think what we have heard is something that this parliament wholeheartedly supports. the austrian presidency has revived the constitutional debate. it was good, it was a lot of hard work, but we see that now we are all sitting at the same table and we are thinking together about how to move forward. i believe that many of the issues on the agenda for the summit - from energy policy to development policy to the common foreign policy - and many other issues could be better dealt with by the new constitutional treaty than by the old treaty of nice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we also need to tell people what the cost of non-constitution is. in our resolution, mr president of the commission, we ask you to present a study to the people on what we are losing by not having this new treaty. this plenary will vote this afternoon on a resolution containing some demands and also some ideas for the next phase of reflection and the further constitutional process. the first message from the summit is that we need the commitment of all 25 member states to this joint project and to the willingness to continue the ratification process. we need this explanation because other public statements here and there give the impression that a member state is moving away from its obligations, and that would be a real crisis of confidence and a breakdown in loyalty between member states. i hope that message can come from the summit. secondly, we warn against breaking this global compromise and resorting to a raisin-picking or a dismantling of the treaty. this would weaken the project of political europe and also jeopardize cohesion. thirdly, it is good to hear that the summit is to decide on a timetable. the eu has always been successful with a clear objective and a fixed date. that was the case with the single market, that was the case with the euro, and that must now be the case with the constitution. the figures for 2007 and 2009 have been mentioned, they coincide with what we have worked out, and we need this contract for the european elections. i warn against going to the european elections with this crisis, which would strengthen the opponents of europe and increase scepticism towards this europe, perhaps even depressing the voting turnout once again. we need to be successful by 2009. we think that a specific dialogue must be held with the two countries which had a negative referendum. the question remains how and under what conditions these two countries can continue the ratification process. we cannot get around this point. the hour of truth will come at the latest after the elections in the netherlands and france, and the partners must know what the real problem with the treaty is. no, it was very vague, and there's not much you can do about it. we need a concrete proposal on how we can help, what we should do. there must now be a gradual commitment to look at this issue more closely. this is not a question for others to decide, we cannot have a deputy debate. it has to come from the two countries themselves, but it has to be asked. next point: the reflection phase is extended. it should be the commitment of all to participate in this reflection. some countries are still silent and do not participate. this is bad for everyone, because these countries also have to ratify, and if the people do not know what they are getting into and what is coming, it is bad for everyone else. we believe that citizens should be more involved. mrs. wallstrom's plan d is good. we too must help to provide more money. we simply need the means, and we also need transnational projects and not just national debates. this element of citizens to citizens, of union citizens to union citizens still needs to be developed further. we had a very successful interparliamentary forum. this process requires not only the executive but also the legislative, the parliaments, and we are willing as a parliament to continue this interparliamentary dialogue. at the end of this debate it must be clear that europe is not just brussels, but that we are all europeans, wherever we live in our countries, regions and municipalities, and if we succeed in this, we will have made real progress. (applause from the centre)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, thank you for giving me the opportunity, one year after the french and dutch ‘no’ votes and only one day before the european council, to answer mr leinen’s question. it also gives me the opportunity to outline the commission’s position on the period of reflection and on the constitutional process. i partly replied to that question last month, when i presented this chamber with the commission’s two communications to the european council – the assessment of the reflection period and plan d – and the citizens’ agenda, to deliver results for europe. as president barroso has already outlined, we have set a citizens’ agenda with these concrete projects and the things we want to achieve. before i come to the next steps to be taken, let me say this about the first steps. the commission, as you have already heard, remains wholly committed to the principles, the values and the efficiency gains that the constitutional treaty would bring. we also welcome further ratifications, as from the estonian parliament recently, and as we have heard being announced from the incoming finnish presidency. i would also like to reply to mr leinen’s question and proposal to look at the effects of a ‘no’ to the constitution or no constitutional treaty, and we are fully willing to do so. i think we should look at what would be the consequences and the costs of no constitution at all. we cannot ignore the fact that right now we have no consensus, no common position among member states on the fate of the constitution and the institutional reform that we need so much. we cannot allow ourselves to be paralysed by this, and we are not doing so, as you have already heard. to begin with, the commission intends to implement the ambitious policy-driven agenda to address citizens’ expectations and restore public confidence in the european project. after president barroso’s outline, there can be no doubt about our determination. we shall deliver, and we will have to do that on the basis of the current treaties. we cannot afford to wait for what will shortly be 27 member states to reach a consensus on the constitutional issue. at the same time, the commission remains fully committed to debating and engaging in dialogue with citizens at european, national and regional levels. the methods we will use are set out in plan d – as in debate, dialogue and democracy. we should use that to explain the added value of the european project. we should use that to argue why we need a new constitutional treaty. we should use it to discuss the political priorities with citizens. our two institutions may not always agree on every detail, but there is one fundamental belief that we share: our commitment to becoming a more democratic, transparent and effective union. and that goes beyond any period of reflection. i also believe that european affairs suffer from a participatory deficit. still, citizens have high expectations on delivery and policy content, and this places important demands on the member states and on our institutions. we must involve citizens more in the policy process at all levels, particularly young people and women. such initiatives should be concrete and seen as a permanent function of developing european affairs, and they should ensure that the feedback process is taken seriously – what do we do with what we hear in dialogue and engagement with citizens? – and that listening is followed up by concrete actions. i have said it before and i will say it again: plan d is not a rescue operation for the constitution. it is not limited to the reflection period – be it one year, two years or even more. it is a starting point for a long-term democratic reform process. we want to create a citizens’ ownership of eu policies to make them understandable and relevant, and to make eu institutions accountable to and reliable for those they serve. i see and hear of lot of nostalgic harking back to the good old days of the european union, but nowadays it is no good having a few men shut themselves away in a castle somewhere trying to solve the problems of the european union. today we need to engage citizens; we need the support and trust of citizens and the confidence of citizens to be able to build a future for the european union. we need to engage and create the participatory functioning of the eu institutions. as you pointed out in your motion for a resolution, we need a special focus in plan d for the coming year, until the june 2007 summit. i have already promised the commission to come back after this summit with a kind of mid-term review. i will pay close attention to the summit’s conclusions in that review, and also to the resolution of this house. delivering concrete results and reconnecting with european citizens will create the favourable climate that is necessary for successful institutional reforms; that is the way we motivate it. so far, plan d has been a successful exercise in terms of setting off a wide range of activities, and i believe we have started to think and reason somewhat differently. we focus on what is our reality of today and for the future, how we need to interact with today’s and tomorrow’s citizens. over 660 activities have been taking place in member states; hundreds of thousands of citizens have visited the europe debate website. for the future, i also think, as mr leinen does, that we need more of a citizen-to-citizen approach to allow citizens to meet across borders to discuss the european agenda. we should focus particularly on young people, the europeans of tomorrow, and mobilise more women in the decision-making process. we need the whole of the european project to be more participatory, more transparent and more effective, and this ambition goes beyond any period of reflection. that is the only way we will be able to take the european union into the future. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr president-in-office, i liked what you said about a summit of the professions. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. i wish you every success for the summit! i would like to thank the president of the commission in particular, not only for being here today - he could say that he is only here when the president of the european council is here - but also for what he said today. we have heard some very critical things about you recently from the esteemed mr schulz, and since martin schulz is known for his objectivity, i assume that he will immediately assess this speech by the president of the commission very positively. we strongly support you in this twofold path - on the one hand, defending the principles of the substance of the european constitution, but on the other hand, also concrete projects to move europe forward. we strongly support you - i say this with all the force of our group - and it would be nice if the other group chairmen would say the same in all the clarity. when we celebrate the 25th of march next year, on 25 march 2007, our group will insist that this should not be a solemn occasion for the heads of state or government to pledge themselves to each other before or behind beautiful flags, but that it should be an expression of european democracy and that the european parliament should be included in the declaration and in our definition of the objectives for the 21st century. i say this to the general secretariat of the council, because it is not usually the heads of government who block something. i would ask the general secretariat of the council to involve the european parliament in an appropriate way from the outset, as the president of the commission has proposed. (applause from the centre) the second point concerns security in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and we expect that concrete action will be taken here. but when it comes to immigration, we also expect that human dignity is respected and that we look for humane measures to deal with illegal immigration. we cannot accept that thousands of people are dying miserably in the mediterranean and on the seas of the world, but we must also take concrete measures to prevent these human tragedies. the other point is the lisbon strategy. we have shown our good will, our ability to act, with the services directive, and we compliment the austrian presidency for having followed this path. we are in favour of a european institute of technology if it creates a network and not a new bureaucracy. as far as energy supplies are concerned, we are in favour of diversification: diversification of energy sources - one cannot rely on just one form of energy, nor can one exclude any form of energy - and also diversification in terms of supply. we cannot depend on one or a few countries for energy supplies, but we need diversification there too, and the principle of solidarity applies to all the member states of the european union. we can't leave anyone alone. as we are talking about solidarity, i see my colleague ioannis kasoulides: i find it unacceptable that we are negotiating with turkey today - and that is a decision, and if you decide something, you must also respect the treaties - but at the same time turkey does not recognise a member state of the european union, if it does not extend the customs agreement to cyprus through the ankara protocol. this is a violation of the solidarity which unites us in the european union, and that is why we must insist that the customs agreement be implemented. (applause from the centre) my last comment concerns the debate on the fundamental rights agency. i have doubts about whether this is the right way to go, and i ask us to reconsider. there was a report by jean-claude juncker before the council of europe. we must think about how we as the european parliament want to work intelligently with the council of europe and also with the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. we should not simply transfer the good work that the council of europe is doing today to the institutions of the european union, but we must focus on how we complement each other, because the council of europe is also about a european community of 46 states. we're 25 years old, soon to be, and we need to complement each other in a smart way. if the presidency of the council takes this into account for the summit, my appreciation of the success of the presidency would be even greater. so good luck tomorrow and the day after tomorrow at the summit in brussels! (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by referring to the president-in-office. we have adopted in this parliament, two days ago, an interim report on the cia committee. there was a fairly homogeneous voting behaviour by my group, a fairly heterogeneous voting behaviour by my colleagues from the epp-ed, but at least a majority who recognises - and i ask you to take this to the council in preparation for the meeting with mr bush - that we are a community of law. the european union and its member states base their existence on the philosophy of the rule of law. we are a place that is constituting itself as a community of law. guantanamo and everything connected with the cia flights are places of lawlessness. a community of law like the european union, which defends its values, must say a clear no to the abuse of our institutions by the us intelligence services and even more to the existence of a lawless area like guantánamo. take this to the summit. mr poettering has pointed out my legendary objectivity. i'm very grateful to him for that. he has forgotten to add that he has quickly joined my criticism of the president of the commission in sending a letter to the president of the commission with mr martens, which is about the same content. (interruption by mr poettering) the european parliament has a duty to protect the interests of the citizens of europe. the fact that you have so many problems in your own family is not our problem, mr. poettering. so, mr president of the commission, you have earned praise today. if you say something right, we'll be on your side. we say that this constitution is necessary, that the reforms it must bring to replace the treaty of nice, which is not enough, are necessary. that you are saying this publicly now and not always leaving mrs wallström alone, that you are saying this in front of this parliament, that is progress. i am not saying that the commission is not aware of the problems. but that's not enough. there's something else to be added. you also mentioned that today. we must ask those who voted against this constitution what they are proposing, how we can get out of this deadlock. it would also be the duty of the french and dutch governments to make proposals to the european union on how this dilemma could be overcome. i have a proposal for france. i am quite sure that if mr chirac announces that if the vote is in favour of the constitution, his resignation will follow immediately, we will have an overwhelming majority in france in favour of the constitution. one thing is for sure: the crisis of the european union is also a crisis of some governments, and this is the reason why the european council is unable to act on most points, because some governments do not want this constitutional treaty and others hide behind those who do not want it. this applies to denmark, portugal and all those who are different from the three council presidencies we have now. it is a courageous move by prime minister vanhanen to symbolically ratify and commit to the constitution during the finnish presidency of the council. (applause from the centre) i think it is good that chancellor schüssel has recognised this constitution. the proposal he has made for this referendum is not new and has already been discussed by the convention, but it shows that austria wants this constitution. the german government, which will then be the third successive presidency of the council, is firmly committed to this constitution. that's a good sign. so anyone who says this constitution is dead is wrong. the commission's proposal to ask all of them to make a solemn declaration on the occasion of the 50th anniversary as to whether they want to develop this integrated europe further, whether they are in fact in favour of the principles of deeper integration, whether they are still in the spirit of the treaties of rome 50 years later is a good idea. it depends on the content. it must also be the content that a solemn declaration is not made for noble goals but for concrete action. it could say, for example: yes, we want the constitution - and above all its content - to become a reality. because one thing - and i say this on behalf of our group and all the members of this group - is absolutely clear: we want the enlargement of the european union. we welcome the draft conclusions on romania and bulgaria. we know that the prospect of accession is a peace-making factor for the balkan countries. that is why we are committed to the need for enlargement. we also say that without the constitutional reforms and the division of powers that goes with them, without the clarity of action and the democratization potential that the constitution contains, there can be no enlargement. unless you want to destroy europe. we don't want that. we are therefore all called upon to continue to fight for this constitution so that europe remains the community of law and acquires the economic strength we need to meet the challenges of the 21st century. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president of the council! at the end of the austrian presidency of the council, your government has a chance to lead the council out of its confusion, because the preliminary balance sheet of your presidency is quite mixed. i very much welcome the initiative to increase transparency in decision-making procedures. graham watson has said that in us liberals they have really passionate supporters. on the other hand, it is a kind of irony of history that in 2006, the year of the mobility of european workers, a service directive is adopted which hinders this very mobility. but as far as the european constitutional treaty is concerned, the council must understand that this treaty has failed in its present form. if the announcement that the citizen must be placed at the centre of european politics, which is heard everywhere, is really serious, then the 'no' vote in france and the netherlands cannot be ignored, nor can we ignore the fact that other countries have already announced that they will not ratify this constitutional treaty. europe needs a constitution, that is quite clear. the content of this constitutional treaty is also good, but there must already be concrete proposals on what can be changed. i was therefore very pleased to read in the picture on sunday the interview with their boss, mr wolfgang schüssel, for two reasons. first of all, he said he's supporting germany in the world cup. i think that's great, then we'll definitely be world champions. but on the other hand, he has taken up the proposal to hold a referendum on the european constitutional treaty in all eu member states on the same day. i think that is excellent, because it is really a step towards bringing the citizens and the european institutions closer together. and this is really a historic event. a constitution which the citizens themselves have given themselves is a really important treaty! mr president-in-office, you have very modestly said that the council does not need to take any epoch-making decisions. but if you manage to put this idea - a referendum on the constitutional treaty throughout europe on the same day - to the other heads of government and win their support, then, in all modesty, you have brought about epoch-making decisions. i wish you all the best in this endeavour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the past year has been marked by numerous protests by people against the services directive, but also by actions against social cuts or against the reduction of democracy. i would just like to remind you of the actions in france, greece and germany - in germany, the protests by general practitioners have continued for months - and all of this has something to do with the policies we are pursuing at national and european level. it is time for governments, the commission and the european parliament to finally take note of the fact that outside the european institutions, eu citizens have long since begun to develop their own ideas of a different europe, a different eu. however, it is clear from the planning and reflection on the forthcoming summit that the council summit is intended to convey to the public the impression that the 'no' to the european constitution was understood merely as a criticism of political style, but not as a criticism of official policy and priorities. the white paper on citizen-centred communication, the large amount of paper and the new websites will not change the priorities of this policy. unless, mrs wallström, the listening you spoke of earlier is finally replaced by necessary corrections. if you understood that to mean the necessary measures you have just mentioned, we would of course give you our full support. however, i do not see the reaction so far this year as being very clear-sighted. i think this is also reflected in the recent proposal by the austrian presidency of the council to submit the old text of the constitution unchanged for direct voting in the eu member states. it can't be. there must be a correction. then it is perfectly legitimate to consider a referendum. the current process, which is only ratified and glorified in the various countries, must finally be brought to an end. the fiftieth anniversary, as mentioned earlier, should therefore be used to hold a democratic debate on the eu's plans and projects to date and thus to make a new start for the european union.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to make only three brief remarks. firstly, i wonder whether, when we are debating here in strasbourg, we should really set up a competing event in vienna with the fundamental rights agency, when we have a proven instrument in the council of europe which is capable of carrying out this task not only for the eu member states but far beyond. i can only encourage you. i said the same thing to the chancellor in a debate. they could make an active contribution to combating the european disease, 'agenuritis', effectively. you could also send a clear signal to that effect in your own country. secondly - and here i can almost echo what my predecessor, mr rasmussen, said - we must of course also defend our own values in the enlargement negotiations. i am a little appalled that we are falling back into the automaticity we have seen here for the last 10 years and which we have also criticized here again and again. it is not the case that the european parliament has not been consulted on the matter, but that the council has not been consulted on the matter. i wonder if we are sending the wrong signals again, setting in motion a train that will not be able to stop after 10, 12 or whatever number of years. the austrian presidency could have sent a clearer signal. thirdly, the european union is based on the member states. there is no european people - and this applies to mrs wallström, who is not listening - but there are 25 national peoples. we're seeing that in football right now. and there is a european union based on the member states and not on a majority of the population expressing their views in referendums. that should be taken into account. otherwise this project will fail in the end.
in writing. once again, the court of justice found that the council had infringed the ec treaty. the council has tried to do away with the involvement of parliament in the legislative process by choosing a legal basis other than that provided for in the treaty. therefore, his conviction by the luxembourg judges is not a surprise. it was predictable and it is welcome in every respect. of course, all institutions are called upon to analyse the judgment and draw conclusions for the future. i do not understand, however, the consequences which the commission is proposing. although the ecj acted very cautiously and reiterated the principle that the ec has no original criminal jurisdiction and therefore expressly excluded from the ec treaty a complementary criminal jurisdiction only for very specific situations, the commission seems to want to draw from the ecj judgment the conclusion of a general criminal jurisdiction of the ec. the council now believes that the commission is also seeking to derive from the european treaties its own powers which the member states have not delegated to it. the commission's approach is not only largely unlawful. it is also unacceptable from the point of view of integration policy. the commission's proposal is therefore rightly called to a halt by parliament in the gargani report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we've only borrowed the earth from our children. we all know that policies that fail to take responsibility for this principle will create an insurmountable barrier for the next generation. jacques delors already said in 1993 that the european union had an urgent task to ensure that the economy was restructured in an environmentally and socially just way and that it was oriented towards a sustainable strategy in order to meet future challenges. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european union's budget for the financial year 2000 was adopted by the council on 14 december. the swedish presidency then built on this insight with the gothenburg strategy. five years later, we find that the new commission has thrown away all these vital lessons for europe and has reverted to old, completely outdated concepts. this is shown by the decisions which proclaim unchecked growth as the key to solving today's problems, which no longer mention the third dimension - the preservation of the ecological basis - and which deny the necessary balance between the three dimensions. the earmarking catalogue of the structural funds regulation, for example, contains just one feature for the environmental dimension out of a total of 71. the new commission slogan that the new lisbon strategy must be pursued with a view to unchecked growth is simply wrong, because it is shortsighted and lacks solidarity and is irresponsible towards the next generation. because that's shifting unpredictable costs to the next generation. we welcome the council's failure to follow this up and we welcome the new strategic approach of the austrian presidency. we hope that it will be adopted in the next few days and that it will be translated into real political action.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the sustainable development website launched by the commission on 30 may is well-intentioned and very interesting, as are the two other websites on climate change and climate control. but they do not diminish my criticism of the commission's communication. this does not include a sustainability strategy but a catalogue of actions taken, individual problems and projects. i also agree with the main criticism made by social platform. i also agreed with this network that political priorities are the cardinal problem here. but i also go further and say that sustainable development is the democratic realization of the vision of a society in which everyone can live in self-determination and dignity. sustainability, in my view, means that more and more people, locally, in europe and globally, have more and more of the conditions that are simply necessary to make peace, protection from violence, democracy, social security, nature intact, education and culture possible. the sustainability strategy must therefore focus on three priorities: meeting the millennium development goals, combating poverty and social exclusion in the eu, reducing carbon dioxide emissions and global warming. this means disarmament, demilitarisation, the democratization of world economic relations and our societies, and redistribution, the diversion of resources in the context of structural change, the restructuring of energy economies and, of course, the restructuring of the social division of labour.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to draw your attention to rural development. it is important that we do not lose sight of rural areas as a whole for economic development. this means that we must also ensure that there are sufficient funds available in financial terms. unfortunately, the so-called second pillar for rural development has been cut by 20 billion over the period 2007 to 2013 compared to the proposal by parliament and the commission, and this reduces the development opportunities. it is therefore certainly necessary to make use of the 20% optional modulation, i.e. the shift from the first to the second pillar. but we must also ensure that we are helping to develop rural areas internationally. we need a fund which can be used internationally for rural development projects in the same way as in europe. this is the only way for rural areas as a whole to have a chance of development.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to conclude this debate by summarizing the points and objectives which we have tried to coordinate with the sustainability strategy during our presidency and which we will now try to decide in the coming days. i would like to thank you very much for your suggestions, but also for the statements and the debate we have had here together. we have set ourselves the objective of placing this issue of sustainable development for europe and thus europe's role as a model high on the political agenda with the sustainability strategy. we've got all the council formations busy. we have also been working very hard in recent months with the european parliament to work out the main points and present them in a strategy. the present strategy is, in our view, the result of a very broad discussion and an ambitious negotiation. the strategy now clearly identifies seven key challenges with objectives and actions, and it will enable us in the european union to once again clearly demonstrate and take the lead in international processes. the most important chapter, of course, is this will also give some measure of the success of the sustainability strategy in the coming years a strong and clearly structured implementation chapter, which provides responsibilities and powers to review implementation progress and addresses all eu institutions and policy levels clearly and clearly, eu-wide and national, local and regional. i also see - and we should do this together - the european union's sustainability strategy as a complement to the lisbon strategy. both strategies aim at sustainable development with different priorities and timeframes. we also want to show that a high quality of life and the environment and a high level of social cohesion are important factors in ensuring long-term competitiveness. sustainable development is a key innovation driver, opening up opportunities and potential for smart growth and better jobs. sustainable development is a treaty-based overarching objective for all european policies. but it presents us with very serious challenges, particularly institutional ones. there are no appropriate structures at eu level to discuss this horizontal issue in the bodies or to better coordinate opinions from different bodies. we have tried to find an ad hoc solution with the 'friends of the presidency' group for the negotiations on the eu's sustainability strategy. at council level, we will work out possible options for appropriate sustainability mechanisms until the first review of the strategy. this institutional issue concerns all eu institutions equally and i would certainly encourage an interinstitutional dialogue beyond the adoption of the sustainability strategy. we do not see the sustainability strategy as the end of the sustainability debate in europe, but rather as an important starting point in support of the lisbon strategy for sustainable development in europe. i thank you again for the very constructive cooperation, not only - and i say this almost at the end of the austrian presidency of the european union - in the field of sustainability, but for the constructive cooperation overall between the european parliament and the presidency. it has always been a very fruitful and successful discussion for me personally in my areas of responsibility.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank everyone for this very interesting debate. the debate shows that this subject is a central issue for europe and that it is a priority which the commission believes can contribute towards improving the quality of life and preserving resources, especially for the benefit of future generations. it goes towards improving the economic, social and environmental dimensions of our way of life. the commission’s proposal has emphasised and given added relevance to the underpinning principles of our sustainable development policy. moreover, we have given ourselves clear objectives with correlative actions to reach these targets. concerning the need to be more ambitious, and the call for new targets, i need to underline that the essential thing is to produce results. investing in new targets may not be too difficult. however, it is much harder to get people to make and accept the changes needed to achieve those targets. we are meeting our existing targets, but the real challenge is to ensure that we do so. we are therefore proposing a new approach aimed at making the difficult changes across society that are needed for sustainable development. having said that, i agree that setting new targets is also important. however, any new targets need to be established through a proper process involving impact assessments and full stakeholder consultation, so that we have the acceptance and the commitment of those who need to work in order to achieve those targets. i would also like to say something about the integrated approach frequently mentioned during the course of this debate. sustainable development is about a coherent approach to policy-making. it requires an integrated approach, and in practice this means the lisbon strategy working hand-in-hand with the sustainable development strategy – two strategies working in parallel and in coordination towards the overarching objective of sustainable development. the commission disagrees with the idea of merging the two strategies, but agrees they should be used in parallel towards achieving the overall goal of sustainable development and that they should be complementary, both in scope and in terms of governance. the commission agrees that they can go hand-in-hand, though this does not mean that they have to be integrated. this can be achieved through sound and effective complementarity between the two, and that is what the commission’s communication seeks to achieve. concerning governance and monitoring, improving the governance of the european union’s sustainable development strategy is key to pushing forward progress. that is why the proposal for the review of the strategy proposes a new improved governance process. the commission will report on progress every two years. let me assure you that in doing so it will draw on the full range of sustainable development indicators. eurostat has made good progress in developing indicators and this work will continue. the aim is not to name and shame, but to assess where we are, how much more we need to do, and in which areas, in order to enable us to determine where we need to act and to allow clear communication to electors and stakeholders on where we need to change and on our approach to this. concerning the international dimension, sustainable development requires a global approach. the european union should maintain its position as a world leader in sustainable development through its action at home and by addressing the effect of this. it must also engage with others to achieve the commitments made at johannesburg and the millennium development goals in order, as has been said, to allow developing economies to leapfrog, to avoid old-fashioned unsustainable patterns of development and to use clean and innovative technologies. this is essential, for example, in the drive to limit climate change. it is also why the global dimension is an integral part of the reviewed european union’s sustainable development strategy and why that strategy advocates an integrated approach to development and external policies. in conclusion, the commission hopes that the interaction between us in this area can continue and intensify in the months ahead.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution, pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the commission has the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the next item is the statement by the council and the statement by the commission on the increase in racist and homophobic violence in europe.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. when i was elected to the european parliament 12 years ago, i would not have thought it possible that we would have to have a debate like this again! we have already been much further along in europe than we are today. the fact that we in the european union today have to deal with the question of how to deal with and combat the rise of racism, the rise of anti-semitism, the rise of xenophobia, the hatred of minorities - whether of a racial, religious or sexual nature - is a wake-up call. that is why i, as chairman of our group, am speaking on behalf of all the members of my group. the european social democrats, the christian democrats in europe, the conservatives and the liberals, the democratic forces of the left and the right, those who were at the cradle of the european union, knew why there had to be a supranational solution to the conflicts at the end of the first half of the 21st century. so let's look back at it again. what were their motives? what had led europe to these catastrophes, the first world war as well as the second, but above all to the catastrophes of fascism and also of stalinism. the hatred of minorities, the feeling of racial superiority, the exclusion of people who did not conform, disabled people, people of different sexual orientations, people who could be stigmatized as enemies, in order to channel the general discontent somewhere to the scapegoats, to those who come from somewhere else, who take away our jobs. i don't want to repeat this. you know it. the arsonists of the first half of the 20th century were these people with racial mania, with religious mania. and what did we do about it? a solution of integration, a solution of the community of values, the community of law based on the fundamental rights for all. no matter what religion they have, whether they're believers or not, no matter what race they are, no matter what color they are. wherever they come from, whatever their beliefs may or may not be, whatever their individual life may be based on, whether in the family, alone or in partnership; that's her business. what unites us is that we can organize a society in our wealth, in our superiority, that says yes to this community, in which everyone has a place, the catholic as the muslim, the protestant as the jew, the black as the white, the straight as the gay, the father as the single or the woman as the single. what is it that makes us make race, sexual orientation, religion the subject of political debate, unless we are pursuing a means to an end, namely, to impose our own political approach by stepping on the minority? this is the most heinous thing that europe has ever seen. and that's what led to this inhumanity. the criticism we make of it is not directed against any people. the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe. they have no place anywhere, in any society, and i hope not in this parliament either! (applause from the centre)
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am firmly convinced that we will only succeed in this important issue, which is also essential for our own credibility, if we stand firm on the values of this european union. we must be credible and have a unified voice on the outside. it is important to me, and i think it is essential, that the institutions of the european union, in particular the european parliament, the council and the commission, should speak the same language. i personally do not think we will get anywhere if we accuse and reproach each other for respecting the principles of respect and tolerance more or less. we must find common ground. i've heard a lot of things that go in that direction. i would like to thank you very much for that. mrs lambert referred to something which i believe to be of crucial importance: the role of the media. we had a euromed conference in vienna ten days ago at which, among other things, we discussed the role of the media. the consensus was that you can't censor the media, you can't tell them what to do. we cannot aim for a code or law to regulate what the law should or should not do. however, the media should have self-control over what it does, because it plays a crucial role. as far as i am concerned, in a democracy the independent media plays probably the most important role in conveying everything that has been said here in favour of tolerance, in favour of the fight against racism. that's very important. to mrs. veld, i would say that this is an austrian matter. ever since 2000 we have been working very vigorously on finding solutions for the austrian nazi victims. there is absolutely no doubt that victims of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation are considered victims of nazism. i would like to say to mr agnoletto, who is unfortunately no longer here, that i very strongly and with a certain personal emotion reject the accusation of inaction levelled against the austrian presidency of the council on this very issue. i think that mr agnoletto has not really followed what has happened during these six months of the austrian presidency. i would like to thank mr sonik in particular for highlighting the work of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia in vienna and also for stressing the important potential role of the human rights agency in this particular area. i would like to ask all members to support the future council presidencies in this matter so that this european agency for human rights becomes a reality. it would be an important contribution to the fight against racism and for tolerance.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, the idea of equality and tolerance has been present in european political thought for centuries. i remember the opening words of a papal bull of the early 10th century, which began: 'does not the sun shine equally on all?' but even though this idea was present, europe very often entered a period of cruel intolerance, which is bounded by millions of dead and millions of destitute lives and those who were not physically destroyed, but lived in such an intolerant environment. ladies and gentlemen, historical experience has been cited, and i think historical experience is the one that matters. it begins subtly, as tiny specks of tolerance and equal opportunity begin to break off, and eventually, from these tiny beginnings, a politically effective movement develops, with disastrous consequences. this is why europe has made equal opportunities, tolerance and anti-discrimination the basis of its political concept and the basis of its political construction. it is, in my view, the most important value that is contained in the european project, all the others are rather instruments and it is up to us to take effective action at all levels where possible. this fight is not just a matter of europe, not just a matter of states, not just a matter of different levels, but ladies and gentlemen, it is also a fight for each of us. i am therefore very encouraged by the ideas that have emerged from the debate, which show that there is a strong will in the european parliament to promote the effective and active application of the ideas of equal opportunities, tolerance and a fundamental rejection of racism, anti-semitism and homophobia.
the debate was closed by the tabling of six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12.30 p.m.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on small arms by mr elmar brok and mr karl von wogau, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs (o-0014/2006 b6-0225/2006) and the oral question to the commission on small arms by mr elmar brok and mr karl von wogau, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs (o-0015/2006 b6-0226/2006).
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to deal with the questions put by mr romeva i rueda very specifically and try to answer them one by one. i also thank you for your comments. we are allies, in fact, because the objectives of the european parliament and the european council are perfectly congruent. as regards the first question, how does the council intend to cooperate with the commission in preparing for a coherent and successful implementation of the union strategy, in conjunction with adequate funding: the european union strategy to combat the proliferation of small arms and light weapons and their ammunition and illicit trafficking adopted by the european council in december 2005 focuses on building the capacity of the general secretariat of the council to effectively implement the strategy in combating the proliferation of small arms and light weapons and their illicit trafficking. the strategy also provides that the general secretariat of the council will do so in close coordination with the commission and the member states. we believe that this is very important, because the strategy calls for ensuring coherence and complementarity between the decisions of the european union in the framework of the cfsp and the actions taken by the commission in the field of development aid, so that all the actions and projects carried out by the european union in the field of small arms and light weapons are based on a coherent approach. i believe that this policy coherence between the institutions is of the utmost importance, because only then will we be able to be credible to the outside world. the second question is whether the presidency will ensure that, if requested, a delegation from the european parliament will take part in the un review conference 2006 as part of the official eu delegation in order to bring political and parliamentary weight to the event. i can answer in the affirmative: i will lead the delegation myself and look forward to it, because it seems to me very important that the european union also shows its profile to the outside world. the participation of members of the european parliament in this conference has been examined and positively assessed by the council bodies and i am pleased that there will indeed be members of the european parliament attending this conference. i am glad to hear that you will be attending in person, and other members will be able to attend. the importance attached to this subject in the european union will no doubt be further emphasized. as regards the third question, to what extent the council is prepared to propose the 1988 european union code of conduct on arms exports as a possible guiding model for the future arms trade treaty, i can tell you that the council's public support for the arms trade treaty on 3 october 2005 was not intended as an attempt by the european union to impose its standards on the world. however, it is noted that third countries seeking to modernise and complete their national export controls consider the eu code of conduct as an important reference document. i know that i too am tempted to do so: if we think we have very good rules within the european union, we would like to see them applied worldwide. but we must be realistic here and we must set an example, and if we set a good example, then other countries in a similar situation will look to our code of conduct as a reference. the european union is making efforts to mobilise the widest possible support, including regional support, in the context of the arms trade treaty, which is an important project in humanitarian, human rights, development and disarmament policy. we also consider that improving the control of transfers of small arms and light weapons is a priority for the european union as a whole. other priorities include improving the traceability of small arms and light weapons, marking and tracing, increased controls on trade and measures against the illicit trade in ammunition. we are very grateful to have the support of the european parliament on this matter and we are also working very well with the commission, and i believe that the european union will also make a good impression at the new york conference.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission plays a major role in the un conference to review the issue of small arms and light weapons, even though it is not a party to the negotiations on the formal documents. some countries have the political will to implement the treaty, but lack the means. so we're really trying to encourage concrete implementation. in 2005 alone, the european commission spent more than €16 million to support countries and populations facing the consequences of armed violence caused by small arms. through this support, we have also contributed to the implementation of the 2002 european union joint action and the european union programme to prevent and combat illicit trade in conventional arms and to the implementation of the european union strategy on small arms and light weapons, the policy framework governing the council and commission's action in this field. more specific coordination measures are set out in the commission's contribution to the 2002 annual report on the joint action on salw. the commission's ability to play a relevant role after 2007 will depend to a large extent on the outcome of the discussions between the council and parliament on the proposed instruments for financing community action. the commission has made reasonable suggestions in this regard. while the commission awaits the positive reception and substantial contribution of these proposals, its salw policy services are working to ensure that awareness of the risks associated with illicit salw and the preparedness of individual countries to address these risks are incorporated into their national and regional strategy papers. the commission services are also working to integrate requirements and means to effectively counter the proliferation and accumulation of illicit weapons into national and regional programmes. it should be noted, however, that the programme measures give the beneficiary country a greater or lesser degree of responsibility for defining the aid as well as for identifying several key areas of action.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i welcome the fact that there is this resolution on small arms, although i must say that i find the term small arms destructive in all that it does. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it states, for example, that the transfer of arms which risk promoting human rights violations or regional and national instability and armed conflict should be avoided. honestly, what arms exports are not? i think the problem is really to distinguish between legal and illegal exports, because this is a fluid area. in this respect, action should be taken not only against illegal exports but also against legal exports. contrary to what mr van orden has said, we should also look at the countries of the european union and not just outside, because countries such as france, the united kingdom and germany are also among the main exporters of small arms. i would just like to give the example of nepal. weapons were exported to nepal from eu countries. now these weapons have been used and we have exactly the problem to which the council's answer was that there was no way of knowing what would develop. that is why we must abolish both legal and illegal small arms. any arms export is a threat to peace.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. as regards the question by mr posselt, which has been put in this form before, i can only confirm what i have already said: there is no linking of accession negotiations. of course, the actual handling of the calendar in accession negotiations with several candidate countries reveals parallels. but of course, both the screening and the analytical examination and, last but not least, the negotiations are conducted separately with each country. i would like to remind you once again that one of the basic principles of accession negotiations is to base the negotiations on the individual achievements of the countries with which negotiations are being held and not to create cross-connections. the pace of progress in the negotiations will also depend solely on the progress made by each candidate country in meeting the conditions for membership. there has been a parallel, but it is more of a practical one, because the commission submitted the first screening reports for turkey and croatia almost simultaneously and they were therefore also dealt with at the same time. however, as was shown two days ago, there were very different treatments and different outcomes, and i believe that de facto decoupling may occur in the future. de jure, there is no such decoupling, because, for example, benchmarks for opening negotiating chapters for only one of the two countries are proposed by the european commission and then also confirmed by the european member states, or the two candidate countries meet these benchmarks at different times. we are at the beginning of these negotiations; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in theory, this principle of own merits has always been valid, and yet we have seen many links in practice. i would just like to ask again: will the council insist that the commission treat these two countries, which are extremely different in terms of both quantity and quality, differently in the screening process, and will the council make a formal break with turkey, which is the right time to do, after hearing the recent threats by turkey on the cyprus question?
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i can assure the house and the commissioner that the epp-ed group fully supports the costa report, with the exception of one motion, and i would like to take this opportunity to thank the committee chairman and rapporteur once again for the very constructive cooperation. i would like to mention only two particular features of parliament's amendments. firstly, i believe that the cost of all airport security measures should be shared between airport users and the member states. the measures at airports are not primarily for the benefit of the individual passenger, but for the general protection of safety. this is a typical task of the state, which then has to pay for it. i want to make a comparison - tonight it might be appropriate - to point out that in my country, hundreds of police officers protect football matches before, during and after the matches, and no spectator has to pay a penny for it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. secondly, we must finally ensure that the system of single security checks is introduced for flights within the european union, but also between the european union and safe third countries. it is not acceptable that a passenger from israel should arrive at frankfurt airport and have to be checked again before continuing on to hamburg. the same is true of the united states. it must be possible for people coming from a safe country not to be subjected to additional security checks when crossing into an eu country. i hope that we will agree with the commission and the council on this sensible arrangement.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the commission, the committee secretariat, the railway companies, the railway industry and, last but not least, the shadow rapporteurs of the political groups for their constructive cooperation. this is another reason why the present report was adopted unanimously by the committee on transport without a vote against and without abstentions. ertms also introduces digital technology to the railway infrastructure. in the future, after several decades, the 20 different signalling systems still in existence today will be a thing of the past and will be replaced by a single system, ertms, in all the member states of the eu. the system increases safety, reduces construction and maintenance costs and significantly increases capacity. the cost of the locomotives is also considerably reduced because they can be produced in larger numbers. this single train protection system will greatly simplify and speed up interoperability. the advantage of long distances, especially in freight transport, can then be exploited in europe as well. it is hardly possible to increase this proportion substantially in the current technical and political patchwork. therefore, ertms is worth investing in as a priority and with determination. investments in ertms are treated as infrastructure investments and as cross-border projects. this means eu co-financing of up to 50% for both ertms-compatible locomotives and infrastructure, at least in cross-border sections. i strongly support the memorandum of understanding in which the eu and national railways have agreed to equip six corridors with ertms. these corridors also serve as an example of the reunification of europe. the implementation of ertms in the six corridors will also overcome national egoisms, because it is necessary to think and act in a european way. a rapid success of these projects would encourage further initiatives. but it is also necessary that not only eu decision-makers keep the issue high on the agenda. member states, industry, infrastructure managers and operators must also give priority to ertms and all have to push and pull in the same direction at the same time. the railways of the future must be fast and environmentally friendly, but they also need to have an important framework. the eurovignette requires the internalisation of external costs. switzerland is our model. the toll there is four times higher than in germany, and it applies to all roads and all trucks. so far, competition in the eu has been unfair. in germany, for example, in addition to the enormous disadvantages of the tax, the railway toll is imposed on all trains and on all tracks, while the truck has so far only been charged on motorways and only for trucks over 12 tonnes. ertms is not just about opportunities for european integration. it is also essential for the medium to long-term development of the railway industry and its 15 000 highly skilled jobs. it is already an export hit par excellence. the commission has already identified a number of potential markets for electric locomotives in the eu. ertms can become a world standard if it can build on a strong market base in europe. my vision is of a european rail network from lisbon to tallinn, from paris to warsaw and from london via budapest to athens. ertms is going to be a huge step forward. i would therefore ask you to confirm the vote in committee tomorrow and to reject the amendments which have been tabled. i would ask the council to join the european parliament in its vote.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i have read mr cramer's report with great attention and interest. i would like to congratulate him on the quality of his document, which is the result of work carried out with all the players in the sector. you've been working your ass off, mr. cramer! in addition to holding a hearing on ertms, you have travelled throughout europe to discuss technical and policy issues related to ertms. you have consulted extensively with the european coordinator for ertms, mr vinck. that is why the report you have produced is of such high quality. it was adopted unanimously by the transport committee of parliament. your report clearly sets out the benefits of ertms and the three challenges to its successful deployment. firstly, ertms is recognised as the best system in the world today for indicating to drivers the speed limit and for automatically controlling that speed. as you have just pointed out, mr cramer, successful exports outside europe, such as to taiwan and korea, demonstrate the value of this system as an exportable product. secondly, many lines in europe are equipped with national or even regional systems, which are generally outdated and incompatible with each other. you said "patchwork"; the word is well chosen to illustrate the wide range of safety and performance levels offered by these systems. to operate on a line, a locomotive must be equipped with the corresponding system, so the thalys is obliged to take seven control systems on board. third, until ertms is deployed on many lines in europe, railway companies are reluctant to invest in ertms. at the same time, infrastructure managers are also reluctant to invest in ertms as long as the trains are not equipped. the railway operators are therefore often better off waiting for others to take the first step in equipping their networks. we must break out of this waiting circle and convince all the players to join a win-win strategy. we can count on mr vinck, the european coordinator, to use his persuasive power. the major freight corridors will only be competitive if the locomotives are not blocked at the borders by technical obstacles, and for that the community strategy must be clearly stated, as you have shown in your report, mr cramer. ensure that ertms is implemented where mandatory, including on all new high-speed lines. only rail projects that take ertms into account should be financed at european level. a substantial financial incentive should be provided to the first infrastructure managers and railway undertakings to equip themselves with ertms. a lot of work has been done to make ertms a success, but we need to step up our efforts, and for that, mr president, parliament's input is widely welcomed. mr. cramer, thank you for your work. we must all move together in the same direction: towards a competitive european railway area capable of providing a quality service. this will enable us to shift some of the freight from road to rail to save energy and better meet the requirements of kyoto. so all of this, mr cramer, does indeed require an ambitious and courageous strategy to put ertms in place. your report gives us a lot of support in this respect and i would like to thank you and parliament for that.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i hope that the introduction of the single railway system will be faster and more timely than we are, because we are already 20 minutes late. you're going to let me go right now because i kind of want to see a game too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i share the view of the vice-president. i would just like to point out two things. firstly, we should not be talking about percentages here, mr cramer. we don't know how much money is in the pot for ertms. we also do not yet know which projects are really ready. the one project, namely rotterdam-genoa, seems to be almost ready for genoa, but the other projects are not yet secure in terms of financing by the member states. so we should not make promises here that the member states are not prepared to keep, because the member states, the network organizations and the railways have to do their part. we can only add the icing on the cake to the ten budget. if the member states put up walls, nothing happens. secondly, i hope that the member states which can receive funds from the cohesion fund or the regional fund will also use these funds for ertms. but if they build roads with it and then complain that the railways are not properly organized and are too slow, then i can only say that the member states are to blame. we have sent the right signal with the report. the commission is also prepared to play its part. but now it is up to the member states, the network organisations and the railway companies to make use of this co-financing. if they don't, we've got a good idea going, but nothing. in this respect, let us all hope that the member states may hear something about our speech in the report tomorrow and decide to give this project a meaningful support.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs kauppi, and all those who have worked on this very complex subject, in particular the shadow rapporteurs, very warmly for their great commitment to this. i must once again express my deep disappointment with our bureau. today is a historic day and we have proof that parliamentary participation in the committee procedure is effective. we, the representatives of the citizens, the people of europe, are achieving something within the institutions, and we are debating it just before midnight and are being told to be brief. this is a repeat case! i know that the bureau and the administration are not interested, but i will not tire of saying that we should concentrate on showing the public the rights that parliament has. we are currently discussing the strengthening of parliament's rights in the context of the committee procedure, in particular the lamfalussy procedure. the bureau will take up the matter shortly before midnight on the week of the crucial meetings. there could be no worse sign in this area. the positive sign of this evening is that we have proved that parliament is a cooperative partner in the dialogue between the council and the commission and that it is not up to us. i would ask the council to follow this and the positive example of the council next week. we have shown that we can reach decisions more efficiently through the committee procedure, which makes for better legislation and therefore the continuation of the lamfalussy procedure, i.e. the right of parliament to examine, timely information to parliament and the institutionalisation and perspective of the call back. the same should be adopted here. i see the hammer is about to swing. time is the most important thing in this house. nevertheless, the commission should also ensure that in future the financial markets - which is what this directive is about - will develop a european model that takes due account of all the strengths of the parties involved.
mr president, commissioner spidla, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. olaf and its staff deserve our thanks and our appreciation for a very difficult and very important task. the balance sheet shows that olaf is an important and powerful partner for europe and the fight against fraud. i would like to invite mr martin to prove his allegations of unlawful proceedings. it is in our own interest as part of the budgetary authority that olaf becomes an ever stronger partner. but if you look at the last 15 months, the commission has not really done much to strengthen olaf. a lengthy appeal process was pursued at the cost of weakening institutions and harming individuals. the strengthening of olaf is now a necessity. the european parliament will be vigilant about the independence of olaf under the new legal bases. i would really like to ask the commission to take this into account. we shall examine in detail how serious the commission really is about combating fraud. the more independent olaf is in the draft, the greater the interest in fighting fraud. i want to assure you of our support. there are many other things that are being done which are directly related to the fight against fraud, for example the green paper on the transparency initiative and the issue of the publication of grant recipients or at least the publicity, the notification to the commission. we have a first draft text which contains this, namely the draft budgetary regulation. it is in our common interest to remind the council of this and to ensure that it is done, otherwise the fight against fraud will always be a piece of cake and a toothless tiger.
in writing. the decision of the european parliament at first reading is a disaster. parliament has failed to set clear ethical limits to the eu commission's research policy. the narrow result of the vote, however, gives hope that this vote can be corrected in the council and at second reading. it is a poor testimony that parliament has not taken the opportunity to give a boost to ethically sound and promising alternatives. it is unacceptable to degrade human embryos as raw material. the risk of commercialising human life and exploiting women for egg donation. furthermore, funding research on embryonic stem cells could undermine trust in the eu, which so obviously subordinates values such as human dignity and human rights to economic interests. it would be a mistake to continue to allow german taxpayers to finance projects which are prohibited under german law. the current sixth research framework programme is already supporting six projects, despite promises to the european parliament that do not comply with german legislation. the council is now called upon to correct this ethical mismatch. the german government must make it clear that it is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and very problematic to co-finance such ethically high-level research funding which is not in line with the german legal situation.
in writing. the 7th eu research framework programme establishes for the first time the so-called security and defence research as a separate budget heading. from 2007, the eu will invest heavily in these problematic research areas. the allocation of research funds will therefore be coordinated in part with the european defence agency (eda). the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the first is to establish defence technology as a key technology within the so-called lisbon strategy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the eu's research and development programme to include the following areas: it is also a question of military orientation of space research. the aim is to promote gmes, which was created to enable the european union to play its strategic role. historically, increasing military spending and thus increasing funding for military research has always been a sign of more wars and conflicts. against all the claims of 'surgically precise' weapons, the number of war casualties and especially the proportion of civilian war casualties with more technologically developed weapons has always increased.
in writing. homophobia and racism have no place in europe. article 13 of the ec treaty prohibits all discrimination on grounds of sex, race, ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. especially after the scandalous and shocking events in moscow on the sidelines of the gay pride in may 2006, we must send a strong signal for tolerance in europe. i demonstrated last saturday in warsaw at the equality parade against the increasing tendencies towards homophobia, particularly in the member state of poland. the right of european citizens to sexual self-determination is a human right and is defended by us social democrats in the european parliament, whether in warsaw, riga or frankfurt. that is why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. we, the epp-ed group, condemn all forms of racially motivated attacks and discrimination and reject all racist tendencies. we have said this in the resolution on homophobia adopted in january and we have made it clear in our current text. we also call on the eu institutions, the member states and all political parties in the eu to do the same. the joint resolution by pse, greens/alle and alde is not acceptable. this text arbitrarily denounces individual member states and uses the parliamentary instrument of the resolution for false statements and insinuations. to name just two: paragraph 2 states: "the brutal assault on a german citizen of ethiopian origin ... in particular because of its racial motive. the german prosecutor general, responsible for crimes of a significant scale which threaten the internal peace of germany, has referred this case back to the competent court as not primarily racially motivated. the text of the resolution contains general assumptions concerning the police forces in the member states: ... member states should consider whether their police forces and judicial systems suffer from 'institutional racism...' i refuse to label as racists people who risk their health and lives every day for the safety of all of us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. wine is a product of regional origin, but it is available and traded worldwide. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we all know the special nature of wine-making in barrique, an old tradition, but one which has its justification in the light of the fact that the ageing process of wine is positively influenced by the storage in wooden barrels. however, the basement technology is not going to stand still. in our efforts to develop our wines in accordance with the best practices and with a view to consumer requirements, we are opening up new possibilities and new insights. these are applied in countries outside the european union. i ask myself at this point: how do we evaluate tradition on the one hand and modern practices on the other? none of us want to ride in the horse-drawn carriage today. i think one cannot exclude the other. but we're getting insecure. the question raised by mr castiglione about the legal implementation of the authorization of the use of wood chips and about the labelling is right. i think we need to be careful that our wine labels don't mutate into a medical-grade package insert. the consumer wants a bottle that is neatly opened and contains the most important information in a clear way. the question of labelling is a sensitive one which i believe can and should be best resolved at national and regional level. it cannot be the task of the european union to try to regulate everything down to the last detail. these things then culminate in demands, as we know from the labelling of allergenic substances, that labelling must also be done in all languages. we must also recognize that there is no control in the area of barrique or wood chips. wine is a regional product, particularly in the case of the addition of wood chips or the addition of barrique. the question of health concerns does not arise here. wine has been made from wood for many generations, and its health benefits are still unquestioned.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not have a fundamental objection to the commission's decision, unlike the applicants. the commission has legalised a practice which has existed, for example, in the us-eu wine trade agreement and in individual licences with third countries since 1984. this request was made at the initiative of the italian government. i am therefore surprised that two italian colleagues from different political groups have asked for this. the commission's decision is also in the interests of consumers, since the barrique in wooden casks is a tradition for white wine, but especially for red wine. a wooden oak cask of this size, with a capacity of 250 litres, costs between 600 and 800 euros. it can be used up to three times, so that a red wine will be at least eur 1 per litre more expensive when aged in barrique than when using wood chips that are completely safe from consumer and health concerns. the decision is therefore in the interests of consumers. you can get high-quality wine at lower prices. i am totally opposed to the applicants on this point. mrs batzeli said that we must not allow such quality wines to be produced at low cost. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the debate is of course part of the wine market regulation. but since italy had requested it, the commission was forced to act. i can fully support mr špidla in this. there is no problem for consumers. we will have to consider whether we allow a positive label allow, not prescribe that someone can say, for example, as a positive advertisement matured in a wooden barrel. then the competition problem is solved. anyway, it's better to legalize this practice than to accept for decades that many people are doing it illegally. i think the path i have chosen is the right one.
a writer. the commission is not syria is being threatened with war from the outside very openly. the us, for example, put syria on what it called the "axis of evil". the eu is also very critical of the syrian regime. at the same time, however, there is very close cooperation with syria. for example, terror suspects are flown to syria, where they are tortured. there is also very close cooperation with syria in various eu countries, for example, the dutch state is confronting syrian refugees in the netherlands directly with representatives of the regime. the european union is also calling on the syrian authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the syrian regime is not forced to abandon its democratic opposition. the declaration also states that it rejects outside influence and aggression, for example from israel and the united states. that's part of the petition. the left group invited michel kilo of the syrian opposition to come here a few months ago. today he is in prison in syria. there are many leftists among those arrested, and that should be taken into account. we demand the release of all these prisoners and we also say that the threat to syria from outside, especially from the us, but also from the eu, must finally be stopped. we must support the democratic opposition in syria!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have taken over the minutes of my colleague mr maat's speech on short notice. i share his deep concern about the human rights situation in syria. the right to freedom of expression is virtually non-existent. the repression is not only directed against journalists and civil society activists, but also increasingly against ethnic and religious minorities. it is crucial that the eu does not sign an association agreement with syria until the human rights situation has substantially improved. we all know that paper is patient. the pressure would be removed from the regime if we signed, even though opposition members are still being imprisoned and tortured, even though nothing changes in the freedom of expression and syria is not pursuing reconciliation with lebanon. this pressure from the eu is not a threat to syria, but in my view a legitimate behaviour of a union of democratic states towards a rather authoritarian regime.
a writer. the commission is not if you look at the situation in north korea, it seems depressing and hopeless. but i have to keep reminding myself that 25 years ago, as a young assistant in this house, i had the good fortune to be involved in the first resolution - back then in support of charter 77. there were three members who were very active at the time: klaus hänsch, who is still here today, otto von habsburg and jiří pelikán, who represented italy in the european parliament at the time. today we are debating human rights under the chairmanship of a czech president, with a czech commissioner, and for the last 15, 16 years - not least thanks to the courage of the peoples of central and eastern europe - the iron curtain has disappeared. this should give us the strength to insist that the inhuman communist regime in north korea must and will also disappear. it is one of the last communist terrorist regimes on earth, along with cuba and a few others, and we should use all peaceful but political and economic means of pressure to bring down this communist dynasty and its repressive system, to free the more than 200,000 freedom fighters and resistance fighters in this country, to finally allow those people to enjoy freedom of conscience who want nothing more than to practice their religion or exercise their right to freedom of expression, and to release those people from japan, south korea and many other countries who have been imprisoned in north korea on the most flimsy of pretexts. many are not even known to be alive, and their whereabouts should be investigated. that's the least this regime has to do. i would therefore like to make it clear that the demand made in the resolution is correct, namely that we re-launch the human rights dialogue with that country, which was suspended in 2003, and that we ask the commission and the council to hold intensive discussions on human rights there. but we as a parliament also have the task of exerting massive pressure and ensuring that the response here is not just words but actions and corresponding political and economic pressure. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. north korea is one of the most problematic countries for which the european union has spoken in terms of respect for human rights. this is for two main reasons: first, north korea has a tight regime and therefore very little information about human rights abuses in the country is released to the public. second: north korea sees international human rights interventions as a covert attempt to upset the balance in society or even to overthrow its government. an example of this stance is the recent response to the resolution on north korea that the european union presented to the un general assembly last year. korea then called on the european union and other donors to suspend their humanitarian aid programs. the explosive response to a letter sent by un special rapporteurs in april, alerting them to the plight of mr. song jong nam, is also noteworthy. north korea is also one of the countries with the highest human rights violations in the world. therefore, the commission and the member states of the european union have raised the issue of respect for human rights in their discussions with the north korean authorities and will continue to make such efforts. they're holding their ground even though the last meeting of the three political leaders was postponed in retaliation for a un general assembly resolution. the imminent execution of mr. song jong nam, which is unusual, the amount of information we have obtained about his imprisonment is extremely significant. on 2 may, 3 may, 11 may and 24 may, representatives of the commission and several member states met with senior north korean government officials to express their grave concerns about the case and to highlight their growing concern about the human rights situation in north korea in general. in this context, they referred in particular to the death penalty. i would like to reassure you that the commission will continue to work closely with the presidency on all these issues and will maintain contact with the european parliament. in view of the return of refugees to north korea by the chinese authorities, the european union has repeatedly expressed its serious concerns about the situation in the context of the human rights dialogue with china. the lack of will on the part of the chinese authorities to address this issue does not diminish the european union's determination to find the right way to address the problem. the question remains open to debate. ladies and gentlemen, the human rights situation in north korea is a subject that we must and will address. i'm sure you will.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we agreed in the debate that we demand the release of the prisoners, especially those who signed the damascus-beirut petition. two days ago two more were arrested and the oral amendment is to name the two names in addition. then it says: ... as well as the recent arrests in syria of yasser melhem and omar adlabi ...; in english: ... whereas so the recent arrests in syria of mr. yasser melhem and mr. omar adlabi ....
president of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin with an apology as, contrary to all principles, i cannot stay until the end of the debate, because i have a long-standing commitment to be present in the belgian parliament, where i shall meet both chambers – the senate and the chamber of deputies. the commission will be represented, as usual, until the end of the debate and we are always ready to answer any of your questions. let me start by telling you that i think this last european council confirmed that we are really moving forward in europe. last week here in the european parliament we discussed how this european council offered a real opportunity. it gave us all a chance to confront the sense of pessimism sparked by the ‘no’ votes on the constitution and to challenge again the mistaken perception that europe is at some kind of standstill. yes, it is true that we have problems and we have important problems to solve, but it is not true that we have been paralysed. so this european council was important to show the way forward to a solution to the institutional issues we still face; to give our citizens a clearer idea of how to move ahead to a more democratic and more effective europe. the european council confirmed that we are now moving from a period of reflection to a period of engagement. it set out a series of key actions which add up to a major programme of action and it agreed how and why we should take the next steps towards an institutional settlement. i should like to pay a very sincere tribute to chancellor schüssel for steering the european council so effectively. i should like to congratulate him, all his colleagues, the members of his government, the permanent representative – all his team – for a very successful presidency. i think, with the great austrian sense of composition, the austrian presidency made a very important contribution to our common project. i think – and i have said it before – that it was a presidency full of substance and style, and i thank you very much for that, chancellor schüssel. i am also proud that the commission was able to contribute so much to this european council, feeding the debate with ideas and pointing the way forward. the european union is now pursuing the twin-track approach that was set out by the commission in our document of 10 may: first, pressing ahead with delivery of concrete action in strategic policies; and second, drawing on the lessons of the past year, moving ahead on a step-by-step approach towards an institutional settlement. it paved the way for action across a wide range of policies. to pick just a few of the points, security, freedom and justice for our citizens constitute a real priority for the european union. member states agree that more needs to be done at european level addressing problems such as illegal immigration, trafficking of human beings, terrorism and organised crime, while guaranteeing respect for fundamental freedoms and rights. as chancellor schüssel said, there was a first orientation debate – which was very useful – regarding the issues of migration and integration. unanimity is holding up moves to make security and justice more effective and fairer across europe. i should have liked the european council to agree without delay the use of article 42 in the existing treaty. that was not yet possible and i regret that. however, it was possible to leave the door open to use the bridging clauses for freedom, security and justice. of course, we shall have to look at this on a case-by-case basis. i have no problem with that, because the argument for change is compelling and i am convinced that change must also include moves to codecision to allow proper democratic scrutiny. the momentum was stepped up still further on our economic, social and environmental agenda. there will be much more to come on this between now and the end of the year on innovation, energy, emissions trading, the european institute for technology and on very important projects for a europe of results. for instance, as chancellor schüssel has already said, some of those projects will be followed by a group made up of the forthcoming presidencies. for instance, our european response for civil protection will be based, hopefully, on the very good report presented at my request and at the request of chancellor schüssel by michel barnier. in particular, the european council endorsed the commission’s proposal for a fundamental review of the single market and the programme on sustainable development. the council rightly stressed the social dimension of the union’s actions and welcomed the commission’s intention to take stock of social realities in the european union. this work is already under way and during the first half of next year we expect to present, together, our fundamental review of the obstacles still remaining to the internal market and our assessment of the social situation in europe, which, of course, also includes an analysis of the demographic challenges that europe faces. we are, as you know, already working hard in that area. enlargement is a profoundly important issue for our union. i welcome the fact that the european council reaffirmed the common objective to welcome bulgaria and romania in january 2007 as members of the union if they comply with all the conditions that were clearly set. the council also restates that the future of the western balkans lies in the european union. as i said to you last week, we must ensure that the european union does not simply enlarge by default. we must ensure that the union is able to function politically, financially and institutionally. the european council faced this issue head-on and later this year we will have a detailed debate to clear the air and to leave no doubt about how we can build a strong europe with enlargement. we took a first step towards enlargement of the eurozone as well. slovenian membership of the euro is a real sign that the dynamism of european integration remains strong. it is, of course, very important for slovenia, but it is also important for the european union as a whole. the enlargement of the eurozone to include one of the new member states is an extremely important and positive step in the european union’s economic and monetary integration. there was also a commitment to get the most out of our external policies through more efficiency, coherence and visibility. this is not just political correctness: the commission’s proposals in its ‘europe in the world’ document can play a real part in helping to realise europe’s global potential. i also warmly welcome the fact that the european council agreed on a programme of transparency, including legislating in public on all legislative acts to be adopted by codecision. the council also endorsed the commission’s policies on better regulation and the role of national parliaments, important measures to improve the way we do our work and to make the union function better. all these areas – transparency, better regulation, subsidiarity – are crucially important to show that the european union is not, and should not be, the bureaucratic thing that our opponents sometimes present and that we are not remote and we really wish to engage with citizens. because, as i have often said, we have to understand that today the only way to build europe is not in a bureaucratic or technocratic way, but in a really democratic way. by any reckoning, this is a europe of results, a europe making a real difference on issues facing europeans every day. but where the european council took a new direction was in showing that the institutional issue is not dead, dormant, asleep, or whatever word the euro-pessimists might use. there is no question of abandoning our conviction that institutional reform is essential. everyone around the table in the european council recognised that the case for institutional change has not changed; it is just as pressing as when national leaders put their signatures to the constitutional treaty. the european council confirmed, as i have said very often, that the nice treaty is not enough, that we need an institutional settlement for our enlarged european union. (applause) as the commission set out last month, we should take a step-by-step approach. after all, that was always the method in the european community since it was founded almost 50 years ago. the european council has asked the forthcoming german presidency to present a report to the june 2007 council, which will contain an assessment of the state of discussions and explore possible future developments with a view to concluding the process by the second half of 2008. i welcome the endorsement by the european council of the commission’s idea of a political declaration to be adopted in berlin on 25 march 2007. when i speak about the institutional rules, i have to be very clear. what we need is not just a change of the rules to be more efficient, but also a confirmation of our values, and this is, of course, the substance of the constitutional treaty. the berlin declaration of march 2007 must be more than a commemoration of past achievements. it must be a restatement of and a recommitment to our values and ambitions, looking to the future for an enlarged europe. it must include a commitment to deliver. we do not need a long text – that is why i have always spoken about a messina-type declaration, because it was a very short, well-written text – but we need a deep reflection and a real debate about the priorities of europe. europe has moved on hugely in recent years and we need to set out the highly political nature of european integration today. i believe that it is critical that we will sign this together as a collective act of will, and that the european parliament will sign that declaration, alongside the member states and the commission, as proof that the european union and its institutions are working together towards the same goals. we have to build this europe in a spirit of true partnership. (applause) we cannot be complacent. if we are to use these opportunities and to take the steps needed, we must be more active, we must look for creative solutions to the institutional questions, we must continue and intensify dialogue with our citizens about where europe is going next. we must press ahead with a vigorous policy agenda: a europe of results delivering the policies our citizens need. last week’s european council gave us renewed confidence that solutions are forthcoming. i should like once again to thank the austrian presidency, because it is true that europe is about an internal market; it is true that europe is also about a political project; but the austrian presidency reminds all of us that europe is not only about the market, or about regulations: europe is also about values, music, literature, culture and our european way of life. as i said at the start of the austrian presidency – when our austrian friends chose that beautiful logo with so many colours – it was crucially important to change from the dark grey of most of the discourse in europe to a more confident colour, not because we are irresponsible optimists, but because if we want to lead we have to lead with confidence. we cannot lead if we are pessimistic, and that is why we need to show europe a new way of defending our values in a more globalised world. i believe that is the right way for europe to move forward. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the president of the european council said in the first sentence: 'it is and has been my intention to promote confidence. and that is the most important thing in the european union: promoting trust. we are a complicated continent, and if we cannot bring the various actors together through trust, then this continent has no future. i would therefore like to thank you, mr president of the european council, in particular for having succeeded in fostering this trust between the institutions, but also with regard to citizens. our job is to listen, then understand, then connect, and then act together. i shall never forget the meeting we had with you as chairmen of the political groups in vienna last december. we told you then under what conditions we as a parliament would be able to give our approval to the financial perspective. we have said that what the heads of state and government have decided cannot be approved by us, but that we want to do something to bring young people together in particular. we wanted more transparency, more control of expenditure, and we have achieved all that with this interinstitutional agreement. because we were so open with you, and because you listened, because you understood our beliefs, it was possible in the end that we could come to an agreement. i would like to thank you very much for this and also thank the commission, president barroso, for its support. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr bartenstein, it was a wise decision to invite colleagues from the european parliament to your informal ministerial meeting so that we could also exchange views. now we have the constitution. our epp, the european people's party, has always felt that we need this treaty. if we have opposed the death of this constitution from the beginning, it is because it must be the starting point for a final solution. this is not only the case for germany and france, but also for the presidencies of finland, portugal and slovenia. it's all connected. if one link in this chain breaks, then the big countries have no work to do, and that is why what portugal, finland and slovenia are doing is as important as what germany and france are doing, from whom we naturally expect something special. we want the results of the 2009 european elections to be known. now, the speech was often on 25 march 2007. we need joint action, and i thank commission president barroso very much. i would like to suggest that we set up a working group at political level, consisting of a representative of the european parliament, a representative of the council and a representative of the commission, so that we can decide together on the organizational aspects of the summit scheduled for 25 march, because not only will a summit involving the commission and parliament be held in berlin, but there will certainly also be something in rome. we must first of all prepare together the declaration which will serve as a model for the future of europe, and that is why i am proposing this working party at political level. mr president of the european council, you will meet the american president tomorrow, or even tonight, as well as the president of the commission. we should make it clear that we are friends and partners of america. we need to get a result in the middle east. we have confidence in israeli prime minister olmert, and we have confidence in palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas. we need the peace process there and we should get it under way together with our american friends. but also, because we are friends of america, be very firm and you have the support of our group here and say something clear about guantanamo! in our opinion, guantanamo is incompatible with the principles of law. tell that to our american friends. (applause from the centre) we must look to the future. president bush will be visiting hungary, which i very much welcome, to commemorate the hungarian uprising of 1956. but we also have to look to the present. i have just met with the leader of the opposition in belarus, alexander milinkevich. we should make it quite clear in our meetings with the americans, but also within the european union, that we support democracy in belarus, where europe's last dictator is based, and that we are opposed to any attempt to question the independence of belarus. if a referendum is to be held on accession or union with russia, we will say no to such a referendum, because in a referendum under a dictator the result is already known. if we want democracy in belarus, then first of all there must be democratic parties building a democratic state, and then we will see. we should do everything we can to support democracy in belarus and civil society, including through the media. my last remark: i was the chairman of the group of the party of european socialists in 2000 when it came to the question of how we should treat austria. we in the epp-ed group have always had confidence in the austrian government, especially in its chancellor, wolfgang schüssel. i hope that those who were your critics then will now have the courage to say: thank you and congratulations to wolfgang schüssel and the austrian government! (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not mr poettering waited until the last minute! we've been sitting here all this time wondering when the campaign money is coming. at the last minute, he brought her in. but it has to be approved. i would like to begin by thanking the austrian presidency for the good work it has done. you pointed out that your team set a record for attendance. i am usually very critical of the presence of council presidencies, but i must admit that the austrian presidency was a very present and capable partner in parliament. i would also like to make it clear on behalf of our group that mr winkler, without having suffered any major physical or mental damage, was often present in the european parliament. thank you very much, mr. secretary of state. if you listen to you, mr chancellor, if you listen to the president of the commission, it begins to get more pleasant because in every third sentence of your speeches you speak of social cohesion, of social responsibility in europe, of the importance of social policy and of the landmark decision which was linked to the services directive. you can feel it: the neoliberal zeitgeist is exhausted. thank god for that. and there is a growing awareness in the commission and, above all, in the council presidencies that economic and monetary union in europe will not succeed unless it is complemented by social union. in this respect, the austrian presidency of the council has been a step in the right direction. the fact that we are hearing this from the president of the commission is satisfactory, at least for the moment. but it shows that there is much to be done for the future. we in parliament have changed the services directive. mr bartenstein, you have already been thanked, and i thank you for inviting my colleagues from the european parliament - i do not remember where it was, in graz or elsewhere - you cannot remember all the beautiful places, where you go skiing and have monasteries and so on. it was good of you to invite the members of parliament. you have also thereby demonstrated that you respect the prerogative of parliament in this legislative procedure. the services directive is the first directive in the european union to be written by parliament. the neoliberal machine that mr bolkestein presented to us was not feasible. it is gratifying that, despite the heterogeneity of the right in this house, and in particular of the epp-ed group, the socially responsible part of this group has followed our rapporteur and our line. the commission has not changed anything, and the crowning achievement is that the austrian presidency has put its stamp on it. i congratulate you on this social progress in europe, which you have achieved with the help of the european parliament. you have rightly pointed out that a number of things have been settled in the council of ministers. the council of ministers acts, the council of ministers decides! the practical work in the councils is working. the council of european heads of state or government is the one that is not working, because it does not normally take decisions. the decision taken today is positive on one point. i would like to admit that the commitment of all your colleagues to the substance of the constitution, which you have presented as president of the council, is positive. i could hardly believe it, i saw it on television at the press conference when you said that you all agreed on the substance of this constitution. you wonder why your colleagues do this so rarely in public, why they do it behind closed doors and leave you alone. mr vanhanen is setting a good example, you yourself have subscribed to this constitution. i think it is great that jacques chirac and now jan peter balkenende have also signed this constitution behind closed doors. if they had done it more strongly during the campaign in france and the netherlands, europe would now be a step further. the point is, they're doing it in secret. but the fact that the substance was saved is good. and that we must build on this substance is clear to everyone in this house. we are only losing another year of time which we urgently need to implement the reform measures inherent in the constitution, which are the basic prerequisite for the economic, social and also the enlargement success of the eu. these reforms have been postponed for another year. that is the less good message that comes from this council. i would like to conclude with a comment on the forthcoming eu-us summit. in addition to the success of the positive commitment to enlargement to include bulgaria and romania, which our group expressly welcomes as a positive sign of the reliability of european policy, you have made a clear statement on guantanamo. i congratulate you on that. guantanamo - i said that last week - is a lawless space, and a lawful community cannot tolerate a lawless space. i hope you will be able to say the same to the american president tomorrow with the same clarity. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we have heard a campaign speech by mr poettering and a whole campaign speech by mr schulz. that's refreshing in this house, and the idea of turning the presidency into a campaign is something new. but, mr schüssel, mr president-in-office, from an artistic point of view, your presidency was a complete success. there was the presidential logo, you all wearing these beautiful ties, music, paintings and beautiful european colours. it's a really nice element. there were also some successes in sports. you organized a football tournament in which austria not only participated but also won, as i heard. i'm glad you did. and i suspect that, quite frankly, that has generated more interest among the citizens than many political decisions, as sad as that is. the austrian presidency was calm. you have always been available to the european parliament. thank you very much. during this period, some important political chapters were concluded, such as the interinstitutional agreement and the services directive. the summit last week, however, was hardly noticeable. it was kind of the informal motto, "we'll meet and no one will notice". the conclusion is that european leaders need a reality check. the eu has already taken a year's pause in thinking, and it is now simply continuing. there is now a timetable for the timetable, and the reflection phase is to be followed by the results phase. that sounds good, but the sad reality is that it's not being noticed. the game continues: good policies from europe are put on the back burner by national governments, while bad policies are said to have been decreed by brussels. the eu leaders must understand that the constitutional treaty that you and your colleague, mr schüssel, signed in 2004 will not come into force. i am therefore pleased to hear you say that there was at least a common understanding that the substance of the constitutional treaty should continue, but not necessarily this constitutional treaty in its present form. but why does the council not say so openly and clearly and put ideas and energy into what should be done instead? the alliance of liberals and democrats is in favour of a constitutional treaty which clearly defines the division of powers between the eu member states and the european institutions and which describes the fundamental rights and values that unite us. the sooner the council addresses this reality, the sooner the dialogue with the citizens can really begin. in this context, mr schüssel, i would like to express our great pleasure at your insistence that many council meetings should now be open to the public. our group has always fought very hard for this, and we have also clearly confronted tony blair with this wish during his presidency. we once greeted him with signs when he came to parliament. he wanted to stop by, but he couldn't. we welcome the fact that you have resisted the pressure of the british and have made it so that there is now transparency, because it is the right of the citizens to see who is actually saying what and deciding what on their behalf. this transparency is an important prerequisite for confidence in the european institutions. (applause from the centre) the fact that the council has not addressed the european parliament's concern, namely the strasbourg question, is, to put it bluntly, a disappointment. it is yet another example of the remoteness of the citizen to get rid of this - admittedly very difficult - subject by means of a letter. the fact that the two major groups are now silent is a clear indication of poverty. (applause from the centre) the citizens' initiative www.oneseat.eu is going ahead. more than 600 000 europeans have signed up for a single seat in parliament in just over four weeks. we also regret that there has been no progress in deregulation. the council has blocked the proposed joint programming, i.e. the institutions jointly deciding what should be done, which would be a prerequisite for transparency and accountability. the council also blocked these so-called concordance tables, which are also an eu word. they would show exactly what to expect. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that would be very important! europe has become quieter, but hopefully not too quiet, because europe must be heard so that the citizens can also enter into a dialogue.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not there is at least one decision by which the last council has obviously also made a little bit of history, and that is the decision to make public the future of co-decision procedures. i think this is a good decision and it should be a decision which actually increases transparency within the institutions and which we support. it is an important step which should be supported by many, especially in this difficult period in which the european union finds itself. i am wondering, however, why the heads of government of the eu member states are themselves countering this intention by proclaiming to the citizens of the eu the exact opposite of thoughtfulness, insight and even the correctness of previous policies. under the headings 'europe is listening', 'europe is acting' and 'looking to the future', the presidency concludes that: i know i'm leading now, but that's my intention, too. firstly, europe is the people who govern the european union, not the citizens of the european union, nor all the people who live in the european union. secondly, the governments continue their policies and implement the policies of the past under the motto 'faster, further, better'. and thirdly, the future is understood to mean meeting the challenges of globalisation and demographic change and successfully implementing the lisbon strategy. these conclusions are not surprising, but they are of little help in the gradual resolution of the problem of congestion in the european union. on the contrary, it is precisely this intention that will exacerbate social, environmental and global problems. i would also like to refer to the european services directive, which we consider to be a lazy compromise and does not achieve what you have just mentioned. but what is particularly alarming is that under the interim heading 'promoting freedom, security and justice', measures aiming at more surveillance, more repression, more isolation and fortress europe, and the enforcement of a migration policy that puts people at the centre of the economy, predominate. the council's response to the refugee tragedies in the mediterranean is the creation of so-called rapid border intervention teams. the english phrase 'rapid border intervention teams' sounds even more like commando units against refugees. and just as alarming is the fact that, under the other interim heading 'promoting the european way of life in a globalised world', an energy policy which is out of date is being linked to the common foreign and security policy and the european security and defence policy in such a way that others in the world may feel threatened by it. this is a very good proof that the governments do not understand sustainable development as a democratic solution to social, environmental and global problems. but i think the european council meeting also made it clear that the reflection period was not used to identify the causes of the rejection of the constitution in the referendums in france and the netherlands, let alone to react to them. i think that a different policy, a different basic substance, must also be made clear in the constitution. i think that is an arrogance which is not accepted by many citizens, but the year was very well used to develop the internal market for arms in a lively way and to make progress in the area of control, repression and containment. the way in which the 50th anniversary of the treaties of rome is now being prepared in a dignified manner should make us think. we should use this moment to think about the future together with the citizens, and not make it a celebration. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. you have just heard the representative of the congress of vienna say that the honourable member is at present in residence. the council president, the chancellor, mr schüssel, the president of the council, mr schüssel, the chancellor of the federal republic of germany, mr schüssel, the president of the council, mr schüssel, the chancellor of the federal republic of germany. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the council will not be able to take a decision on it. the financial perspective, the final shape of the new reach substance policy, the services directive, new impulses in asylum and migration - this was not necessarily what one expected. one might almost think that your success contradicts the claim that we needed a constitutional treaty to be able to act, because you are proving that there is another way. i do not share that view at all. i would like to remind you that we started working on the 'constitutional treaty' project when we were about to take in 10 to 12 or more new member states, and that we wanted to make the union more capable of acting, but also more democratic and more transparent. if we had succeeded in doing so in time and if the division of powers had been regulated, for example, as it is in the draft constitutional treaty, then the people of the netherlands and france would not have objected. i would like to ask you, mr chancellor, if you are sure that the heads of state or government would still sign the treaty today as they did then. i am not quite sure how far the consensus that basically unites us will hold, namely that we need a new set of rules. i think we need to make some corrections beyond that. the council has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the public will notice that. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european union is in a better position today than it was a year ago. she's not what we want her to be yet. it is still a long way off, but it is better off than it was a year ago and it has shown itself to be able to act in certain areas. i hope that on 26 june we will be able to put the financial perspectives for foreign policy on the austrian hat. i would like to take this opportunity to thank ambassador woschnagg, a pillar of european policy in brussels, for his support. (applause from the centre) the financial perspective has been agreed, but we see that the veto principle leads to the lowest common denominator in such matters as well. this shows the weaknesses of our decision-making structures. mr president-in-office, i thank you for the fact that we will now have more transparency in the council, for which we have fought. but that does not mean democracy and civil rights as they are set out in the constitution. but thank you for the progress that has been made. you've put the constitutional treaty back on track. we see new opportunities! i am more optimistic about this than i was six months ago. but we must not just talk about substance. it must be made clear that parts i and ii of the constitution itself are not really being challenged by anyone, because they represent a balance that has never been better formulated by anyone. this should guide our debates in the months ahead. in particular, with regard to the internal orientation of the european union, the question of europe's borders, its capacity to receive and so on has been at the centre of the debate under this presidency, on the basis of the constitutional treaty. the balance between the two aspects of the internal design and the external borders will be important for the future design of europe. we must debate this. i hope that there are the necessary new approaches to move forward accordingly. if we do not make progress in these areas, we will have a small europe, and none of us wants that. we do not want poland and other countries to become second class in europe. you'll meet the americans today and tomorrow. guantanamo is an important issue, but the us and europe have no treaty with each other, while both have treaties with other countries in the world. we need an institutional framework for relations between europe and america. perhaps today we can put an emphasis on this. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, in the few minutes i have this evening, i am going to follow current financial trends and consolidate my opening remarks in covering both mr muscat’s report and the oral question by mrs berès on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. as i emphasised during the hearing organised by the committee on economic and monetary affairs in january, the real debate cannot be on more or less cross-border consolidation. that is for the market players to decide, not the politicians. rather, the core of the debate is on how to create the optimal regulatory and prudential framework for the european financial sector to thrive, delivering concrete and substantial benefits to the consumers and boosting economic growth and job creation. that is why i would like to warmly congratulate the rapporteur, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, and members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their work. with such complex issues, it is not always easy to identify the real questions, to take into account all the different points of view and strike the right balance to set the way forward. thanks to the rapporteur’s open, transparent and inclusive approach, the report does just that. it brings a substantial contribution to the debate. i believe that there is a broad consensus on the main obstacles identified, shared by the council conclusions adopted by the ecofin council in may. we must improve the cost efficiency of the supervision of cross-border activities. in that respect, as noted in the report, further convergence of supervisory practices and standards is essential. to achieve this objective, we do not need a supervisory ‘big bang’, but rather to optimise the functioning of the lamfalussy structure. there are concrete projects that can be implemented rather soon. the role of the level 3 committees is essential, for instance to implement common reporting standards and thus avoid costly and unnecessary duplicative requirements. a number of such concrete improvements have been identified and were endorsed by the ecofin council last may. i would like to give a push to accelerating work in this area. we cannot have an internal market if companies are going to have to keep under-utilised capital tied up because we do not have in place sufficient cooperation between supervisors. i intend to come back to that in the time ahead. there is a regulatory and supervisory cost that should be evaluated. the report rightly underlines the implications of increasing integration for supervision. some complex questions, such as deposit guarantee schemes or the issue of lender of last resort, must be re-examined in that context. the commission’s white paper on financial services policy has identified those questions. this will surely be one of the most interesting policy debates for the coming months and years. besides supervision, the fragmentation of retail markets must also be addressed. the current difficulties in selling similar retail products in different countries is a major stumbling block in exploiting scale synergies. i fully agree with the report that further integration, notably in the retail market segments, should not occur to the detriment of consumers. we have means to prevent that from happening and we will use them. the ongoing sectoral inquiries, under the supervision of my colleague commissioner kroes, are a good example. a third area calling for our attention is the one related to impediments to corporate reorganisation on a pan-european basis. we are currently consulting on future priorities for company law and corporate governance to identify how we could make further progress. i would like to thank the rapporteur again for his work. we now have a shared analysis of what the main obstacles are. our challenge for the coming years will be to remove them. turning to the oral question by mrs berès, let me be clear: the commission believes strongly that market forces and shareholder choices should determine the optimal shape of exchange consolidation – not bureaucrats, not politicians. we should not be in the business of ‘picking winners’ or trying to shape markets according to a bureaucratic vision of what is best for european shareholders, investors and issuers. in the long run, european investors and european corporations seeking to raise capital will be best served by world-class institutions doing business in a world-class regulatory framework deploying cutting-edge technology and able to provide the breadth and range of services they want. those services might include the ability to trade in a multitude of currencies, time-zones and instruments. there are strong commercial pressures driving consolidation. if a deal makes commercial sense, and if the competition law and regulatory aspects can be adequately dealt with, then we will not stand in the way. however – and this is the key point – the commission considers that it is essential that financial market business in the jurisdiction of the european union is regulated by european and member state rules, and by our regulators. of course we will be very vigilant to ensure that current levels of investor protection and market integrity will be maintained. we believe in strong and effective regulation of european marketplaces. otherwise, we would not all have put so much effort into getting the mifid right, as well as the other aspects of the financial services action plan that we have laboured on for so long together. we note the preliminary assessment from some regulators in europe and the united states that the mergers being discussed will not mean significant changes of regulatory responsibility. but if there are any spillovers, regulators should work out constructively together what the rules are going to be and how to cooperate. i will be maintaining close contact with the college of euronext supervisors in the time ahead so as to ensure there is a full understanding about how all these issues will evolve. so there is no question of imposing new, extra-territorial burdens on european businesses that would put us at a disadvantage and jeopardise our internationally successful and developing financial markets. we know european users and shareholders do not favour that either. on competition issues, the commission’s competences in merger assessment are laid down in the ec merger regulation no 139/2004. within this framework, it is up to the parties in the first instance to inform the commission as to whether, in their view, the relevant turnover thresholds are met for community competence. the new york stock exchange and euronext have informed us that this transaction would not meet these thresholds. on clearing and settlement issues, in the course of our work we have been trying to determine the best range of measures – legislative or not – that will deliver improved competitiveness in these areas. as regards the steps needed to deliver those benefits, the commission has not yet taken a decision. all options remain on the table; a decision will probably be taken shortly.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteur for the constructive cooperation he has shown me. the consolidation of the banking sector is not as advanced between most eu countries as it is within some. in the context of the lisbon strategy, the financial sector has a pioneering role to play here, which it is aware of and is happy to assume. what is the structure of the european banking sector, what are its strengths and what are the causes of the lack of european consolidation? i welcome the first studies prepared by the commission on this subject. whether we look at the financial sector, the education sector, the linguistic landscape or the regional differences, europe's strength has been and is its diversity. for the financial services sector, this means three things above all: first, a functioning financial services sector for the european economy can only be composed of different players, players who, because of their size, face international challenges and who are more concerned with regional markets. it is in regional markets that small and mediumsized enterprises operate and represent the main part of european economic power. this diversity must be preserved in the european union, and i am glad that we have clearly incorporated this point in our report with the amendment tabled by mrs berès. secondly, what does a pluralist banking structure mean in the european union? this simply means that institutions in france, spain, hungary, etc. may pursue different business models with different business objectives. the success of the model or the objective is left to the competition. perhaps there is not just one royal road here, but many. thirdly, european consumers are different in their culture and lifestyle and will therefore also use different financial services. only a diversity of products will guarantee effective and efficient financial services for europe, geared to the needs of consumers and the economy. the hearing in the economic and monetary committee was included in this report. the report supports the european financial sector in its efforts to remove the real obstacles to crossborder consolidation. the european central bank also gave positive feedback.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the single market is still incomplete, contrary to what some might say. in particular, further improvements are possible and necessary in the area of financial services. the commissioner, commissioner mccreevy, is committed to changing this situation. the european parliament is happy to support you in this endeavour. the muscat report gives us members the opportunity today to make a clear call for the immediate removal of unjustified barriers to mergers and acquisitions. i would like to congratulate mr muscat on his very balanced report and thank him for his open and constructive cooperation. the political border between two member states of the european union must not be an obstacle to a crossborder merger or acquisition. the decision on mergers or acquisitions should not be a political one, but should depend solely on whether the concentration creates added value for shareholders, employees, customers and business partners in a european or global context, thereby enhancing the competitiveness of the companies involved. however, under no circumstances may a merger or acquisition infringe eu competition law. it is not the task of politics - and i agree with you, commissioner mccreevy - to ensure more or less mergers, but simply to ensure that the balance is not completely shifted. when it comes to the possible merger between the new york stock exchange and euronext, i am of the opinion, unlike my predecessor, that politics should not play an active role here. it must only draw up limits where it becomes clear that this merger is suddenly giving rise to american ideas of supervision in europe. this is not entirely out of the question, given that de facto capital market transactions between european partners are increasingly being conducted under american capital market laws. unjustified obstacles of a fiscal or regulatory nature must be removed. the commission, on behalf of the ecofin council, has worked to identify precisely these obstacles. as a concrete result, i would like to point out the forthcoming publication of the revision of article 16 of the banking directive. of course, regulators must be enforcing. however, the reason for rejecting a crossborder concentration, as set out in article 16, is too vaguely formulated by the supervisory authority concerned. the assessment of the fit&proper test leaves a lot of room for interpretation for supervisory authorities and can thus lead to abuse. this has been demonstrated in recent cases. transparency, comprehensible decisions and therefore predictability for businesses are aspects which we will have to discuss in the coming months. as rapporteur for this parliament, i am particularly interested in the commission's proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i support mr muscat's proposal to set up a council of wise men to examine the effects of consolidation, as well as issues of supervisory oversight, financial stability and crisis management. i also think it is right to give the council six months to prepare a well-founded report with concrete proposals on the issues mentioned. the amendments i have tabled are designed to make the text a little more neutral, and they concern the internal market, the removal of unjustified obstacles. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let's take off the national glasses. let us ensure that industry and consumers have the single market they so badly need. this is the only way they will be able to compete in the global market.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i have taken the liberty of sitting a little further forward so that you do not have to look up at the back all the time, and it may make the debates in this parliament a little more lively if you are a little closer to each other. we are also trying to achieve a parliamentary debate. i think i've gotten over the technical part. commissioner mccreevy has made a very good point of what is at stake. he pointed out that we are under an international obligation to comply with special recommendation no. 7 of the so-called financial action task force. he went into the technical details, and so it is hardly something i need to go over again. we have reached - and he is quite right - a balanced, reasonable compromise with the committee on economic and monetary affairs and with the commission and the council, which, in my view and in the opinion of my committee, has taken account of the concerns of data protection and data security and also of the concerns of the econ committee. we should ask ourselves much more often, even if these reports come from the international level, whether they are really doing anything. i took the liberty of taking this document - since it has been on the table since last year, that is, since november 2005 - on a trip to israel, where i spoke to an expert at a university whose field of expertise is the fight against financial flows to finance terrorism. he was an agent and a lieutenant in the israeli army, working for mossad. he looked at this document and, to be honest, he did not see the added value. i can understand that, too. my background is as follows: i'm from a bank, i went to law school. i know that terrorist financial flows don't work like this, where terrorist a goes to kbc bank, deposits his money and hopes that someone in damascus will withdraw the money from the bank that is there. there are entirely different ways for terrorists to get their money. we may close a gap, and we will surely catch some small fish. i'm sure you do. but it is not the right, the compelling instrument to combat terrorism. i'm convinced of that, to be honest. i think it is right and reasonable to try to smooth and dry up the financial flows of terrorists. that is what we must achieve. maybe there are other ways. i wouldn't be standing here, i'd probably get a nobel prize if i knew exactly how to do this. so i think we have a good approach here. nevertheless, we had a long discussion. we have spoken to many different institutions about this report, including the ecb. and it's enormously disappointing when we talk to the ecb, but have to learn from the press that the ecb, the system for which we are creating a legal basis here, that has been through the media, has long been known that the ecb knew what swift was doing to the united states. i am not trying to confuse two issues here. but it is clear that what we are doing is an ex post legitimization of something that has already happened, and that we are creating a system for it afterwards and putting it on a legal basis. it would have been very helpful - i don't have to address this to the commission, because it's not their fault - if an institution like the ecb had said: we know that these things happen, and we want to work with you to develop a reasonable legal basis, to also enable legal provisions that protect the fundamental rights of our people, especially in relation to the united states. of course the united states is a transatlantic partner. i would never want to question that, especially as a german! but we're starting to worry. it is not just that the events surrounding swift have recently become known here. there was also the issue of passenger data storage, we suspected secret prisons, there were secret flights, we had the discussion about data storage. this is all becoming more and more important. that is why i would have included a sunset clause, whether it was an international regulation or not, so that after five years we could see whether it had worked, whether it had made sense or whether we had simply introduced unnecessary legislation. because that cannot be our job as a parliament. when i hire a painter to come to my house, i want him to paint the wall once, not come three times to fix it. this is exactly what our citizens expect from our legislation. i would therefore like to see the sunset clause retained, so that we as a parliament have the obligation to review what we are doing. nevertheless, i will be discussing with my colleagues from the epp and the pse how we are going to deal with swift as a whole in the context of transferring funds. i would like to thank the commission for the cooperation which it has shown in this area and i would ask it to perhaps also influence the european central bank a little so that it can show the same cooperation of trust as the commission has shown.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the concerns raised by the rapporteur, mr alvaro, were concerns as they were presented and discussed at length in both committees concerned. this is only a small piece of legislation, namely the implementation of special recommendation no 7, i.e. the question of what information should accompany money transfers. and precisely because it is a small piece of legislation, but highly political and capable of deeply affecting private and business concerns, this parliament has - and this is reasonable and right - asked itself the question in all seriousness: what needs to be regulated, what is worth regulating and what are the appropriate responses? it was not enough for us to say that there was an international agreement. we have not been satisfied with saying that there is already a preliminary agreement between the commission and the council. both committees have done their part to find reasonable answers. this applies to the question of the inward thresholds, where it is still possible to establish traceability, but at the same time to avoid overreactions of a legal nature against the monetary institutions involved in the question of possible international thresholds. this is also true of the question of anonymous donations, as is the practice in some countries, such as the country holding the outgoing presidency of the council, austria. they should not be prevented if a country wishes to avail itself of this option. however, a threshold of eur 500 will be set and they will only be made available if they are sent to organisations of absolute trust. this also applies to the banking issue of intermediary banks in the transfer business. here again we have found reasonable solutions. where complete information cannot be provided for technical reasons in some member states, it will continue to be possible to hold the intermediary banks jointly responsible, with the agreement of the final bank. this is true not least of the question of outgoing payments from the european union. we have not made the mistake of bureaucratizing too much, of imposing too many conditions, but on the contrary we have made a conscious distinction between payments which are terrorism-related and payments which may simply be made by migrant workers who have nothing to do with terrorism. this distinction was important because we are supporting the commission in its efforts to license and bring to light also the payment service providers, which are more informal in nature, operating in grey areas, so that we know as much as possible and do as little as possible bureaucracy or restrictions on civil liberties in the wrong place. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs of the political groups on behalf of the economic and social committee for their excellent cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not a question of the sensitive question of thresholds, it is not a question of sensitive policy regulations. let me say one more thing: we make laws here on the basis of the rule of law, not somewhere in back rooms where no one can control secret programs anymore. we are making legislation that is transparent and clear to citizens, that can be relied upon, not unilateral declarations by individual states around the world, that want to seduce private companies, whether international organizations with cooperative property rights, into doing things that may or may not be possible under national law. we are asking the same questions as the belgian government and we will help them to find answers to these questions because they are necessary. that is why we should continue to create the rule of law and the basis for international agreements, and not leave the field to the wild growth. we shall find suitable ways of doing this together with the rapporteur.
member of the commission. mr president, i warmly welcome mr szejna’s report and today’s discussion on the recent developments in and prospects for company law. this report is timely, as we have just finalised our consultation on future priorities for the action plan on company law and corporate governance. our detailed report on that consultation will be available on the internet shortly. let me thank mr szejna and his colleagues in the committee on legal affairs and mr lehne and colleagues in the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the efforts they have put into this piece of work. our consultation has been successful. we received more than 250 replies and around 300 people actively participated in our public hearing on 3 may. the views expressed in the replies to the public consultation were confirmed at the hearing. what are the main lessons of the consultation? firstly, there was overwhelming support among stakeholders for the application of the ‘better regulation’ principles. respondents praised the consultation exercise. they supported the commitment to the strict application of the subsidiarity and proportionality principles. they also welcomed the commission’s commitment to undertake systematic regulatory impact assessments before any potential legislative initiative. a majority of respondents supported the objective of simplification. however, most stakeholders considered a recasting exercise inappropriate. stakeholders do not want us to take the risk of opening a pandora’s box. a codification or consolidation exercise would seem to be the most appropriate. secondly, as regards the continued relevance of the action plan, and in particular the measures proposed, respondents generally supported the work done since 2003. however, opinions were split on the details of the measures proposed for the medium and long term. a number of respondents expressed ‘regulatory fatigue’. however the general opinion was that work should continue on enabling legislation that would enhance the mobility of companies in the european union or facilitate company restructuring. the vast majority of respondents called for the adoption of a fourteenth company law directive on the transfer of registered offices. a large number of respondents also called on the commission to table a proposal for a european private company statute. in addition, a large number of stakeholders wanted to see more focus on small firms. thirdly, when it came to the detail of the measures proposed in the action plan in the field of corporate governance, views were split. there was general support for exploring certain issues at eu level, for example the issue of ‘one share, one vote’, at least by carrying out a fact-finding study, or the rights of shareholders. views were more qualified on the disclosure of institutional investors’ voting policies. there was clear opposition to the adoption of an eu wrongful trading rule, as well as to potential harmonisation of the legislation on directors’ disqualification. parliament’s report provides the commission with very useful input for the development of a strategic perspective for further action. you underscore the trends observed during the consultation exercise on the need to have more regard to the needs of small firms, the call for a fourteenth company law directive on the transfer of registered offices and the opposition to the adoption of a european initiative in the field of wrongful trading rules. it is too early at this stage for us to respond in detail to all the issues raised in this exercise. i have heard the views expressed. on the basis of the outcome of the consultation and of the report discussed today, we intend soon to publish a statement in which we will indicate our priorities for the near future. our views are mostly convergent. i welcome that. the commission and parliament must work hand in hand if we want to develop a regulatory framework that makes a difference in strengthening the competitiveness of the european economy.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to begin by thanking mr szenja, the rapporteur on the committee responsible, for his excellent cooperation. this is a very important report because it shows, from the parliament's point of view, the priorities we want to set for the implementation of the remaining provisions of the old company law action plan in this parliamentary term and the extent to which we want to ask the commission to make concrete proposals in this parliamentary term. it was not surprising to me in the political debate that there was a very broad agreement between the groups - not only the large groups but also the smaller groups - on the content, so that the reports were adopted by large majorities in both the committee on economic and monetary affairs and later in the committee on legal affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report is good as it is and should not be watered down by amendments which may even call for compromise. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not misled by the commission's proposals. let me make one more comment on the subject of one share one vote. the debate on this point in the economic and legal affairs committees has been divided - not surprisingly. we have already noted these differences when we negotiated the acquisition directive. but even there we have managed to reach a reasonable consensus. the consensus is quite simple: wait for the studies that have now been commissioned and wait for the evaluation of the takeover directive in 2012/2013. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. that's a good example of a good compromise. in conclusion, i would like to thank all those involved once again. this is a good report which has earned a large majority in this house.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too would like to join in the thanks which mr lehne has expressed to the rapporteur. the report, which does not fit properly into the series of reports on company law which have already been adopted in this house, especially since it enjoys a certain special status as an own-initiative report, fills a real gap which the commission should fill in the coming years with its own actions. we are very much looking forward to your explanation of the next steps in the field of company law. the european company law is, as we all know, an important part of the european internal market and an important instrument for the further integration of small and mediumsized enterprises in particular. in this respect, the policy we are pursuing here is one which also creates direct jobs. the creation of a particularly large number of jobs can only be achieved if small and mediumsized enterprises are given special support. and small and mediumsized enterprises can particularly benefit from this form of company law because the cost of consultancy for them will be lower and because a uniform legal form would facilitate creation, which we also want to promote - as you said - across borders by improving mobility. i therefore believe that the commission is right to take initiatives to facilitate the creation of european private companies in the future. the commission's proposal is that parliament should be given the opportunity to present a legislative resolution on the commission's activities. i also welcome the fact that the proposal to establish a european private company, which was already included in the 2003 action plan, is now being taken up again. the amendments contained in this report, which relate in particular to accounting standards, are extremely important to me and i ask you, commissioner, to take them into account.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs lucas and thank her for her report. i would also like to thank the environment committee of the european parliament for the unanimous adoption of the report, and the committee on transport and tourism of the european parliament and the author of the opinion, mrs hennis-plasschaert, for the adoption by that committee of the inclusion of aviation in the european union's greenhouse gas trading system. aviation is the sector that contributes about 3% of the carbon dioxide produced in the european union, but this rate is increasing rapidly. as mrs lucas said earlier, in a few years, by 2012, it will have increased by 150% compared to 1990, which is about a little less than 5% a year. this rate of increase in carbon dioxide is of course contributing to the further increase in the greenhouse effect, and it should be noted that it is not only carbon dioxide emitted by aircraft: there are other side effects, such as emissions that contribute to the creation of other greenhouse gases, and therefore the contribution of aviation to the greenhouse effect is much higher than the 3% contribution of carbon dioxide. as mrs lucas said, the kyoto protocol does not cover the limitation of carbon dioxide emissions from aviation. there is of course article 2 (2), to which reference is made. the european union will therefore continue and intensify its efforts to include air transport as well as maritime transport in any post-2012 regime. but that period is certainly several years away and therefore they should be included in the gas trading system now, after the co-decision procedure by the european parliament and the council, in order to achieve a limitation of the contribution of aviation to the limitation of the greenhouse effect and not to put this sector in an advantageous position compared to other sectors which contribute to the limitation of the greenhouse effect. in other words, we must not let other sectors suffer worse than aviation. it is therefore particularly encouraging that not only have there been the relevant reports from parliament's committees but also that both the council of environment ministers of the european union and the heads of state and government of the european union adopted at the european council last december the inclusion of air transport in the trading system and called on the european commission to bring the relevant legislation into the codecision procedure. i would like to make three comments on the remarks made by the committee on the environment and on the points made earlier by mrs lucas: first of all, whether a closed or an open system is better for aviation: the european parliament's committee recommendation wants the system to be closed, a separate system for aviation, either as a permanent system or at a pilot stage by 2012. the commission has taken a different approach: considers that the wider the scope covered by the trading system, the less costly it is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and therefore the lower the cost to aviation without reducing the environmental benefit. i would also like to follow up mrs lucas's thought on the taxation of kerosene, jet fuel. it is a fact, as you said earlier, that there are bilateral agreements which essentially exempt air transport from paying taxes. and, of course, the european commission has since 2003 passed community legislation allowing member states to tax fuel on their domestic flights and also, after an agreement with another country, allowing taxes on flights between these two countries. the commission is continuing, and will continue, as you said earlier, its efforts also towards third countries to remove this system of non-taxation of kerosene, which is clearly not having any positive environmental effects. i would also like to make a comment on the geographical scope of the marketing system: the commission has proposed to include all flights from european union airports, and the parliament's committee proposes to include all flights to or from european union airports as well as flights passing through european union airspace. we believe that the commission's approach is simpler, more effective and will facilitate the extension of the system to other countries. but no doubt, because parliament is proposing it and because the airlines themselves and non-governmental organisations have proposed that all flights to and from european union airports should be included, the commission will consider this approach in the context of the detailed impact study it will have before submitting its proposal to the co-decision procedure which we hope to have before the end of this year. finally, i would like to say that, beyond the inclusion of aviation in the marketing system, there are undoubtedly other measures such as those you have mentioned: improving air traffic, investing in research to develop, improve and use technologies that are more environmentally friendly, possibly using biofuels in airlines - although this is still being researched - and a number of other measures that can also be implemented in parallel to reduce the impact of aviation on climate change.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs for their work. the climate impact of aviation is significant and increasing rapidly. it is therefore necessary that the commission submit legislative proposals to us very soon to eliminate this problem. it cannot be argued that aviation accounts for only a small percentage of global emissions. we always have this in the climate debate: the individual issuer always creates only one share. but if every single emitter comes out with the argument that they only cause a small part, then we will never get to active climate action. in addition, other modes of transport such as buses, trains and cars are already subject to very high taxes, charges and environmental requirements imposed by the european union. it is not possible for the operators of buses or railways, for example, to see that we are putting a heavy burden on them as a relatively environmentally friendly mode of transport and so far we have put so little burden on the relatively environmentally harmful mode of transport, aircraft. this distortion of competition is not only a distortion between the different modes of transport but also affects - i would like to point this out in view of the holiday season in europe - the holiday regions. there are european holiday regions to which people from europe usually travel by bus, train or car, and there are other holiday regions to which people travel primarily by air. in my region, the representatives of hotels, restaurants and other tourism businesses complain that the tax burden for a dutchman flying from amsterdam to turkey is much lower than for a dutchman who takes a bus to the alps in germany or france. this is a distortion of competition which we must eliminate. but we should choose the instruments in this context in such a way as not to create new distortions of competition. it is therefore important that we choose the instruments with the least possible distortion of competition between european airlines and their non-european competitors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is why we have prepared amendments in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and have also supported some amendments in this direction from the committee on transport and tourism. if we talk exclusively or mainly about the kerosene tax, that is hardly a solution to the problem. we should focus on other instruments, that is, a fundamentally new emissions trading system that removes the weaknesses of the current system and a mix of other instruments. it is important that emissions trading not only covers intra-european flights but also intercontinental traffic, at least if it lands and takes off in europe. we want a worldwide system as soon as possible. the weaknesses of the emissions trading system as we have it now must be overcome. this means less red tape, a uniform method of allocation throughout europe and greater recognition of prior work. that is one of the reasons why i am calling for a separate system on behalf of the epp-ed group. we can then correct the errors faster than if we entered the bad system. we, the epp-ed group, want an impact assessment. i expect the commission to present it shortly. we also want to see that, with all the emphasis on emissions trading, other measures such as air traffic management continue to be pursued on an equal footing. we should also consider eliminating distortions of competition by reducing taxes on environmentally friendly modes of transport.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has also taken the view that the aid granted to the airlines concerned is compatible with the internal market. aviation is one of the fastest growing sectors in the world and in the eu, employing over four million europeans. although aviation is responsible for only about three percent of global co2 emissions, its share of emissions is steadily growing. our policy must aim to reduce the climate impact without cutting the growth of this key sector. the growth and competitiveness of our airlines must not be at odds with the reduction of greenhouse gases. the choice of instruments is crucial to achieving this objective. the introduction of a kerosene tax, the levying of departure charges or the taxation of tickets will only dampen demand. the increase in the cost of flying only reduces greenhouse gases at the expense of growth, which is not absolutely necessary. the system of including aviation in the emissions trading scheme proposed by the commission is the environmentally and economically better alternative. in the case of eu-only emissions trading, it is necessary to ensure that european airlines are not placed at a disadvantage compared to other companies. moreover, emissions trading must not become an end in itself but must, above all, provide incentives for investment in better technologies. the key to balancing growth and co2 reduction lies in promoting technology. the european aerospace industry in particular has made a major contribution to the development of more fuel-efficient engines and thus cleaner aircraft. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the environmental impact of the use of energy. the first is the creation of a common european airspace and control area, the so-called single european sky project, and the second is the expansion of airports. without regulatory zeal, we can achieve a considerable reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, particularly by reducing air travel and avoiding queues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. what we need first of all is a common european approach to reducing the environmental impact of air transport. national approaches to ticket taxes and kerosene taxes are not effective. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on emissions from aviation are respected. first, we need to integrate it into the existing european trading system. a separate system would be counterproductive and would stifle the growth of air transport. this is contrary to our lisbon strategy. why would you do that? there is no market without suppliers, and the airline industry will buy in the first period only because of its growth rates and because of long-term technical innovation. a separate system also requires a new administrative structure and is contrary to our intention of better regulation. what about other modes of transport? do we need any more systems? this doesn't make any sense! secondly, i reject the inclusion of non-co2 climate impacts by multipliers. let us look at switzerland, sweden and the united kingdom, where the nox problem is being solved by landing and take-off fees. it's a sensible way to go.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank mrs korhola, rapporteur for the aarhus convention, and also the vice-president, mr vidal-quadras, who chaired the conciliation committee with the council, for the very good results achieved in the conciliation. the discussions which took place were constructive and led to positive results and feasible solutions. the commission has also supported the text of the conciliation agreement, which has settled the few remaining outstanding issues satisfactorily. the european citizens will thus have a legal framework guaranteeing them access to environmental information and also participation in environmental decision-making. the commission therefore recommends that parliament should endorse the excellent results achieved by its negotiating team.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the aim of this communication is to increase transparency in environmental matters and to increase public participation in decision-making. the rapporteur's report made it very clear that there were very different developments in the legislative procedure and that some of the documents presented were certainly not to our liking. the compromise reached is acceptable from this point of view. however, if the present text is measured against the stated objective and it clearly states that through public participation every citizen should be able to live in the environment that suits him, this cannot actually be achieved, because everyone has a different idea of the environment that surrounds him. but that is a lofty goal, and if i take it as a basis, then what we have achieved does not correspond to that goal. i would therefore like to make a general point that the general demand for less bureaucracy, more transparency and more democracy has not been met, particularly in the present compromise. on the contrary, it was a slippery slope. the bureaucracy that would be built up by this proposal is hardly acceptable. i also believe that it is unacceptable to grant special rights to ngos in the environmental field. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter by the end of the year. i appreciate the work of ngos, particularly in the environmental field, but i also see them as lobbyists and representatives of a particular direction, such as representatives of companies or associations. we must monitor closely the development of the legislative text, its impact on the general legislation and the objectives we are achieving, apart from the fact that i can see here a cause for the fact that companies affect competition and that distortions of competition are possible. we have to control this! (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to congratulate the european parliament delegation on the discussions it held in the conciliation committee last may. i would like to thank in particular the vice-president, mrs roth-behrendt, who chaired the conciliation committee, and the rapporteur, mr johannes blokland, who has really made a major contribution to the achievement of positive results. the discussions in the conciliation committee were constructive, they were directed in the right direction thanks to the efforts of the austrian presidency and there was agreement on many important issues, such as those mentioned by mr blokland: the possibility of removing batteries from appliances, the exclusion of very small battery producers, the marking of battery capacity and other important issues on which positive solutions were reached. the european commission supports the outcome of the procedure and we recommend that parliament vote on the very good results achieved by its negotiating team.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr hans blokland, very much for his dedicated work. the commission's initial proposals were a little more ambitious than what we have at the end of the conciliation committee, so it could be said that this is perhaps not the big leap for the environment. but what has been decided brings a significant improvement in the protection of people and the environment from dangerous chemicals that can escape from batteries. that is why we should support the result tomorrow by a large majority. i agree with mr blokland on most points, but i did not agree with the extension of the ban on cadmium to industrial batteries at the very beginning of the procedure. i am glad that we have found a solution in committee at the second reading. a ban on cadmium in industrial batteries would have imposed too great a burden on industry and not much good for the environment, unlike a ban on appliance batteries, because we have a working recycling system for industrial batteries. i have been informed by the german environment agency that even operators of certain plants in the libyan desert are inquiring about how to dispose of industrial batteries, because these batteries are so large that they cannot be easily disposed of in household waste. so there is indeed a recycling concern in the libyan desert itself, and that is why i have been campaigning from the beginning for an exception to be made here, as is also stated in the final decision. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not in the wake of your speech, i would like to ask the question: what spirit was behind franco and his regime? we all know that spirit. it is the spirit of intolerance, of contempt for human beings, it is the spirit of the destruction of democratic institutions, it is the spirit of hatred for everything that is not as one would like it to be. behind franco and his regime was a contempt for humanity and a readiness for deadly violence. unconditional submission to one's own ideology or death - that was the message of the franco regime. but this was not a spanish embassy, because when franco took power 70 years ago, my country had already suffered under hitler's dictatorship for three years, and mussolini had ruled italy for 14 years. the fascist movement, of which franco was a above all militarist part, already existed at that time throughout europe. the civil war was not just a spanish civil war. he had spain as a territory and the spanish people as victims, but he also had the spanish people as hostages in a trial run for a larger war. a stain on the history of my country is and remains guernica and the condor legion. the young people of the 1930s who went to spain to defend democracy voluntarily made a glorious page in european and world history. ernest hemingway has created an unforgettable literary monument for this generation. arthur miller, the famous american writer, once said: "in the 1930s, the word spain was an explosion. it was about defeating clerical feudalism and opposing the spirit of freedom, tolerance and the monster of intolerance. when we think of spain today, we on the left in europe think of the countless victims who were to be mourned from our ranks - but not only from our ranks - in this civil war. there were also christian democrats, there were also liberals, there were also republicans who stood up against this intolerance. the whole world community of mind and people opposed franco, who wanted to oppose this totalitarian claim to submission, which was linked to franco. franco has lost. if we are to draw conclusions here in this house 70 years later, i would remind you that three presidents of the european parliament since its direct election have been spanish: one christian democrat, two social democrats. if today, 70 years later, a spanish president of catalan origin, speaking on behalf of the representatives of 25 european nations, can remind us that european integration is the victory over intolerance and lack of freedom, then 70 years later we can say that freedom has won, franco has lost. this is the best thing that could have happened to europe! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to the possibility of making personal remarks at the end of debates. i do not know the precise wording of the rules of procedure, but i would like to make a personal remark. i listened carefully to the explanations of the previous speaker. i do not want to go into the details of the content, but i want to make one point for myself and my group: what we have just heard is the spirit of mr franco. it was a fascist speech which has no place in the european parliament! (applause from the centre and the right)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a catholic, i want to say that we stand for human dignity, human rights, the rule of law, democracy and freedom. we consider dictators and supporters of totalitarian regimes - whether of fascism, national socialism or communism - as unfit to defend our ideals. we defend our ideals with our own convictions. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european parliament is today adopting the cohesion policy in its regulations after months of negotiations and discussions. i believe that cohesion policy is one of the most important, one of the most positive and, above all, one of the most visible policies of the european union. we are facing a huge challenge. the disparities between the various countries have widened, and we as european politicians have a great responsibility towards the people. people are afraid of losing their jobs, they are afraid of globalisation. but to make the most of these opportunities for europe, we must support the weakest in the new and old member states. i would also like to emphasize once again the social aspects of cohesion policy. we are not making cohesion policy for human capital, as it is called in european jargon, but we are making policy for people. this means that we must put people first and thereby strengthen the social dimension considerably. we need well-trained people. people must have access to the lifelong learning programme. they need to be integrated, they need to feel that we're there for them. i think that the european parliament has been very successful in the negotiations. we have achieved that in the future there will be more participation. we have achieved that member states are not treated differently. we're being taught to think sustainability is a big deal, not a necessary evil. the strengthening of the urban dimension has been achieved, as has the strengthening of territorial cohesion, and equal opportunities and anti-discrimination have been considerably strengthened by parliament. this means that we can say with a clear conscience that the lisbon strategy is at the heart of cohesion policy in our country and that the people of our union really have a chance for the future. unfortunately, we have not succeeded in obtaining the necessary funds we proposed, and we have not succeeded in recycling and reusing unspent funds within the framework of cohesion policy. but we want to have something to do in the next few years, and that is why we will continue to fight for this to be achieved. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in the near future. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr president of the council, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues, and especially the rapporteurs, on behalf of my group, for their good cooperation. it was crucial in my view that parliament represented the interests of the regions and their people in the negotiations in a united way. it was parliament above all that ensured that cohesion was and remains the real objective of the structural funds, because those who jeopardise economic and social cohesion are attacking the european union's capacity for integration at its very core. there have been plenty of attempts. the first group of six member states should be mentioned. they have caused a massive reduction in the structural funds, and thus have been the first to call economic and social cohesion into question. but then the commission also took a serious step. president barroso was looking for money to finance the lisbon strategy, so he turned to the structural funds. the commission has also been asked to draw up a list of the member states which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list of the countries which are to be included in the list. the actual task of the structural funds, to create cohesion between regions and to pursue sustainable regional development, has suddenly become secondary. i find it scandalous not only that the earmarking list was written into the documents without parliament's knowledge and without consultation, but also that the commission, as the guardian of the treaties itself, is sacrificing economic and social cohesion, contrary to the provisions of the treaties. it is therefore a particular success of parliament that the regulation at least incorporates the horizontal objective of sustainable development. i would also like to mention the partnership principle, because it is extremely important that civil society actors are involved in addition to the social partners, and that it is a must for member states to consult environmental organisations and representatives of equal opportunities for men and women. i expect the commission to check this. finally, i would like to welcome the transparency initiative of commissioner siim kallas. he can count on our support. in future, each member state will have to disclose who receives structural funds and how these decision-making processes take place.
mr president, commissioners, ministers and colleagues! as shadow rapporteur, i would like to focus mainly on the european regional development fund. the european parliament adopted many amendments at first reading and significantly changed the commission's proposal, particularly in the areas of strengthening the urban dimension, greater protection of the environment and cultural heritage, non-discrimination and treatment of people with disabilities, which is also reflected in the hatzidakis report. the possibility of supporting social housing has also been included in the erdf assistance. the common position, which was adopted unanimously by the council, thus represents a satisfactory compromise. the majority of the amendments adopted by the european parliament have been accepted either in full, in part or at least in principle. among the most important changes, which also reflect the outcome of the december 2005 financial perspectives summit, is certainly the eligibility of non-refundable vat for private co-financing. in order to avoid double standards - and this is a success of parliament - this support will be extended to all member states in the coming period. my group therefore believes that, in view of the urgency, not only the erdf regulation but the whole package of structural fund regulations should be adopted as soon as possible, so that there is no further delay in the preparation of the operational programmes which are so important to us in the regions and thus also the timely start of the projects in the regions. given that parliament has come out of the negotiations very successfully, we recommend that it adopt the common position without further amendments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the cohesion fund is an ideal instrument for conveying to the people on the ground one of the most important fundamental principles of the european union, solidarity between the member states. i very much welcome the fact that this support is increasingly geared towards sustainable development, with sustainable urban transport, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy as key sectors. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i am very much in favour of the commission. we will monitor, together with the regional actors, whether the eligible sectors in the environment and transport sectors are really balanced, whether the projects are in breach of environmental regulations, whether the gothenburg objectives are respected and whether there is real involvement and not just a formal invitation of the relevant partners in the preparation of the programmes and projects.
for the information of colleagues, this time it was not the interpreters. mrs de brún spoke first in gaelic. gaelic is now an official language. yesterday the bureau decided that the plenary session may also be held in gaelic if it is announced.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european structural policy has a secure outlook for 2007-13. it's about time. the compromise was a long one, but the result is clear: the weakest regions will benefit from the european solidarity community. in the more economically developed regions, we support regional competitiveness. in the border regions, the eu is making a difference by promoting crossborder cooperation. the european union is thus helping to overcome structural change and high unemployment. this is a challenge, especially with growth rates in many countries falling short of expectations, and the use of funds representing only a few percentage points of the gross domestic product of the beneficiary countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we need an implementing regulation on the structural funds that creates transparency. we must and want to know exactly where the money of european taxpayers is going. parliament must support the commission in this sensible initiative, because only if we control european funds, target them and use them for the most urgent problems, can structural and regional policy succeed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the fact that the commission and the council have agreed to most of parliament's amendments on the reform of the social fund is a true testament to the good work of this house. the fact that we have finally reached a good compromise on all the points at issue is also a good sign of the good conduct of the negotiations under the austrian presidency. the result of this reform can indeed be fully satisfactory for all 25 member states. the programme will continue to promote training and retraining in future professions. but for the first time, it also supports the development of concepts for better reconciling family and work, because - we all know this - it is not enough to provide enough crèches and nurseries if we want to get more women into work. what we need are new job models and new forms of support that are specifically geared to this. but it is also about linking it more closely with the european employment strategy and tackling social exclusion. with 20 million unemployed and 68 million people living in poverty across the eu, special attention will continue to be paid to the integration of socially disadvantaged groups. the same applies to people with disabilities and now, under pressure from this house, also to asylum seekers, and not just to recognised asylum seekers. it should also be noted that projects against xenophobia and racism in educational institutions and the workplace will of course be possible in the future. the basic prerequisite for good vocational training is a sound general education, and therefore social fund funds can now also be used to reform education systems. and for the new member states, i think it is particularly important that we have established the strengthening of social dialogue and thus of the social partners. in future, no one can sneak out of here, experience speaks for itself. where the social partners were involved in the development of employment policy programmes, acceptance was also higher. (the president cut the speaker off)
president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank the members for their many and distinguished speeches. it shows that parliament has been thorough and multi-faceted in its efforts. it has been pleasing to note that the broadly shared idea has been that cohesion policy is not about doing things for its own sake, but is primarily about achieving equality between people and for people and about delivering concrete results. the second key issue, which i mentioned in my opening speech, is partnership and civil society, and the third issue can be the environment, sustainable development and security. all these factors bring the european union closer to its citizens, to their assistance, and allow for a closer relationship between citizens and the european union. i would also like to make a few brief comments on two other issues, namely the recycling of unused funds and the lisbon objectives and the structural funds. on the question of the recycling of unused funds, the council took a position for the first time during the negotiations on the interinstitutional agreement, and that position was negative. following repeated requests from the committee on regional development, the then presidency referred the matter back to the committee of permanent representatives of the council. the committee of permanent representatives rejected the european parliament's proposal almost unanimously. the delegations also rejected any statement on the matter. i understand that parliament and the commission will make a joint statement on this matter. i think this is a good way to do it. however, the council cannot agree with this statement because there is no genuine desire on the part of the member states to discuss the recycling of unused funds in the middle of the programming period. i do not think that the lisbon objectives of growth, competitiveness and employment should be seen as a contradiction to the social and regional dimensions. on the contrary, if properly implemented, the lisbon objectives will ensure that cohesion policy will continue to be effective and effective, taking into account regional specificities. my views will be discussed in greater detail at the meeting of the committee on regional development next monday in brussels, where i will be present. finally, i would like to thank everyone for their excellent cooperation. (applause) i would like to thank the
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to share five brief points with you. first of all, i would like to say that the process that has brought us to this stage of preparation for the next generation of cohesion policy clearly proves that the community method works and that the european institutions have the capacity to find the consensus that is needed. secondly, what i see today is that we have a policy for the whole territory of the european union, a policy adapted to the challenges of globalisation, of enlargement, of increased diversity, consistent with the principle of equity, adaptable to very different regional contexts and responding to the needs of territories and cities. thirdly, i leave this debate with a full awareness of your preoccupations: those related to specific situations in individual regions, those related to the need for flexibility on various aspects and those related to the links between the lisbon agenda and cohesion policy. we will keep them in mind, both whilst negotiating the programmes and during the implementation process. fourthly, i am sure that the members of the european parliament will play an active role in promoting this policy in their constituencies, through dialogue with citizens and with all partners. we very much count on you. fifthly, the challenge now is to work towards timely implementation, to reinforce management and financial control structures in the member states and regions to share experience and the lessons already learned, to maximise the benefits derived from good experience and to eliminate the risk of problems recurring. we have made this policy a major contributor to plan d, and we are open to working further with you on it.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i have followed your debate with interest and i am pleased to see the importance it has clearly shown in the matter of social cohesion. i think that the most important thing at the moment is to contribute to the most effective practical implementation of european structural and cohesion policy and to conduct the dialogue with citizens in the most open way possible and to develop the partnership in the deepest way possible, as is finally emphasised and proposed in the proposals. i think that the moment we enter the implementation phase, the next important moment comes, which is the preparation of further strategies. i look forward to working with you on implementation, on finding control mechanisms, as well as on finding new strategies, because life doesn't stop and new challenges are bound to come.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place in a few minutes. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i have agreed to the report by mr silva peneda. three quarters of the amendments tabled by our committee on employment and social affairs were accepted by the council first by qualified majority and then by the european commission. once again, the good work of the austrian presidency has paid off, as it has been a key player in the compromise. it has given life to the concept of 'flexicurity': to rely on flexible labour markets, while at the same time taking social security into account, both for those who are employed and for those who are affected by unemployment. the esf contributes to economic and social cohesion and is compatible with the new lisbon strategy. it promotes employability through the development of local partnerships and employment societies, particularly in structurally weak areas. it helps to combat youth and long-term unemployment, to address the shortage of skilled workers and to reduce social exclusion and discrimination. i welcome the willingness to involve the social partners more closely in the design and implementation of projects. the esf should become a hallmark of quality, not replacing national programmes but effectively complementing them. it makes important contributions to meeting the challenges of globalisation and demographic change and to stimulating urgently needed reforms in the economic and social policies of the member states.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i am very grateful to the commissioner for his comments. they are at the heart of the debate we must have about the future of the european economy. azambuja is an isolated case, but it is representative. it is representative of a wrong development in european industrial policy. it is quite clear that we need to remain competitive and that there must be optimisation, that productivity gains are necessary and that these productivity gains - if they are accompanied by job losses in one company - must be offset by innovative investment elsewhere or in the same region to create new jobs. it's perfectly clear. we must invest in a targeted way. but what our policy must not be and cannot be, and what we as socialists in europe will fight against, is the brutality with which the large, worldwide corporations deal with human destinies! in my political career as mayor of a german city, i have seen how states, regions and cities play off against each other with their ice-cold companies when it comes to investing in sites. the imagination of corporate executives is boundless when it comes to obtaining public investment funds as a location advantage. and the lack of imagination when it comes to taking social responsibility in the event of a crisis is also enormous. that's what we're seeing at general motors. i appreciate what you've told us. they check whether european funds have been transferred there, and if european funds have been transferred, they must remain at that location. that's good news. but what's going on in portugal? the same film is being shown as we saw a few months ago, when the swedish workers were pitted against the german workers by the same company. whoever reduces social standards the most, whoever reduces wages the most, gets the extra! less social rights, less pay is the basic condition for location decisions. this is a form of capitalism that the people of europe do not want and that we must fight against. if, as in my country, a company - not an automobile company, but the financial services company allianz - makes a profit of 4.4 billion euros and then says that we are now laying off 8,000 highly qualified employees so that our shareholders can keep their profits, then that is not only immoral - i cannot expect a capitalist to be moral, i do not - but it is also socially irresponsible. we must think about how we can limit this kind of corporate policy in national legislation and through european law. of course, in large corporations that operate globally, these are corporate decisions that are made within the company and that we have no influence on. but the consequences of these corporate decisions are of a societal nature. that is why we regard economic democracy as also the participation of democracy in such decisions. hedge funds today buy companies as commodities. we live in an economic reality where large funds buy large companies, liquidate them as quickly as possible, in order to transform them as quickly as possible and sell them as quickly as possible for a profit. the company, the location and the whole region become commodities. this cannot be the economic future of europe! the question of how to restructure the european economy is therefore a question which determines the social cohesion of europe. the idea of the european union, the idea of the single market in which we live today, was in the second half of the 20th century that economic and technical progress was coupled with social progress. we are now in a phase where profit increases are coupled with a reduction in social security. if we do not stop this and return to what we have been doing successfully in the second half of the 20th century, which is to combine economic growth with social security, then we will lose the social stability of societies in europe. and social instability is always the basic precondition for political instability. the latter leads to a security breakdown. the restructuring of enterprises in europe is therefore a challenge which we must face socially. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already done so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. in 2005, over half a million jobs were lost as a result of restructuring within the european union. the companies listed on the stock exchange are making the biggest profits they have ever made, no matter in which country. sales are exploding and the workforce is being dramatically reduced. the productivity of dax-oriented enterprises has increased by an average of 6.5% over the last three years. that means they're competitive! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to make a few suggestions which have not been taken into account in most cases. can it not be assumed that aid will be spent primarily on product and process innovation, on new research and development and not so much on plant and equipment? i think that can be categorically limited. secondly, does it make sense to limit recovery to five years? the depreciation period of equipment is usually 10-15 years. so the companies have to pay back as long as the depreciation has not been done. thirdly, should the assessment of whether or not funds should be allocated be based on the fact that the international companies at all their sites comply with the guidelines of the who and the international labour organisation and with the emission requirements or not? if you don't, you're not going to get any funding. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that the social partners are not involved in the decisionmaking process. the european taxpayer is thus financing twice as much. we finance the companies for their research and development, we finance their equipment costs and then they lay off the workers and the european taxpayer is supposed to co-finance these unemployed people. this cannot be a national economic solution! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. you have spoken on the subject of innovation. in these days of the world cup, the image of the japanese, who played wonderfully to the penalty area but then failed to score, automatically comes to mind. or the brazil-ghana game, where the ghanaians may have given the best picture of an african team, but no goals were scored. this is the case for us europeans with innovation. we're wonderful when it comes to inventing things. we're great at getting to the penalty area. but we're not changing things. i am therefore grateful to you, commissioner, and also to the rapporteur for this report and for your words. i would also like to commend the rapporteur for her work in the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities. that is why there is light and shadow in this report, and i want to start with the shadow. there is the question we raise with patent law. the clear demand is that the member states finally put an end to the linguistic dispute so that the european patent can be established. that wording is too weak. it is now much more than a matter of languages. the aim is to find a clever, interesting and intelligent combination between the london convention and the patent litigation system, a litigation system where we are clearly also creating a court that deals with patent law. another point is the reporting obligations we are asking for smes. we are asking the commission to report on how innovation potential is measured. we are clearly creating a new bureaucracy! if we ask the commission to request these reports, it will do so for small and mediumsized enterprises, and they will be burdened with additional bureaucracy. this is the wrong way! the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. or the measures to prevent good researchers, good innovators, from leaving europe, the infrastructure we need to create to bring european researchers back home. there are many people in the world who would like to return to europe. or additional support for particularly creative smes. we, as parliament, together with the commission, have adopted the programme for innovation and competitiveness, the cip - i am grateful to everyone that this has worked in the first reading - where we also provide pre-seed money, i.e. risk capital for this special initial phase. and of course standards: i am glad that we are tackling the subject of standards here, because through standardization and better mechanisms for standardization we can re-launch the success story that we can see in the example of gsm - commissioner bangemann was the one who started this - and we can also re-launch the success story of the gsm. lisbon is not dead, but i'd like liverpool better, because the liverpool process would mean that in the champions league final you could be 3-0 down at half-time and still win. that's where we are.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by joan calabuig rull, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a policy framework to strengthen manufacturing in the eu pathways to a more integrated approach to industrial policy (2006/2003 (ini)) (a6-0206/2006).
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am extremely grateful to the rapporteur, mr calabuig rull, for his report, which accurately reflects the commission's intentions and also gives a fair and appropriate assessment. we are therefore in agreement that europe must and will remain a strong industrial location. industry is still a crucial economic factor for europe, if not the crucial economic factor. the manufacturing sector directly employs 34 million people in europe, three quarters of all european union exports come from manufacturing, more than 80% of all private sector r & d expenditure in the eu comes from the industrial sector and, of course, a large proportion of all services depend on the strength and efficiency of manufacturing. we have no need to hide in europe either. the european industry is highly efficient in many areas. it's not like we fell back here. there are some areas where competition has become more intense and we are having difficulties, but there are surprisingly many areas where europe is the world market leader and also the technology leader. we agreed in proposing an industrial policy for the 21st century that we must not go back to the days of state control, bureaucracy and interventionism, but that the aim must be to strengthen the framework conditions for industrial activity in europe in such a way that europe remains or becomes attractive as a location for industries a clear rejection of protectionism and state interventionism, but a clear offer to help promote and develop greater competitiveness. the various horizontal and sectoral initiatives mentioned by the rapporteur are designed to achieve this. i would like to point out in particular that some of the horizontal initiatives proposed by the commission last year have become major issues, such as increasing the capacity for innovation, protecting intellectual property rights and also access to third markets - the major issue currently being discussed in the doha round. i would like to draw your attention in particular to the importance of better regulation for a modern industrial policy. if there is one sector of the european economy which complains of too much bureaucracy and too many cumbersome regulations, it is this sector. we have, as you know, taken great care in this. i would like to say again that the purpose of the current review of community law is not to reduce any standards, such as less protection of the environment or less protection of consumers, but to make provisions as effective and modern as possible in order to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies. i fully share the rapporteur's view on the problem of qualifications. i'm very grateful that he worked that out so hard. the future of manufacturing in europe will increasingly depend on the availability of a sufficient number of skilled workers. we already have a skills problem in some member states, and part of the unemployment in europe is also explained by the fact that certain skills are not available where they are needed. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by thanking mr calabuig rull for his excellent and results-oriented cooperation. i would like to include the commission, and in particular commissioner verheugen, in this thanksgiving, because the proposal that the commission has put forward is generally sound and a good guide for a reorientation of industrial policy. our group supports the draft resolution by the committee on industry, research and development. we've been working together and we're getting along. on the other hand, we shall ask for separate votes on certain amendments where the competence of the member states is being encroached upon. we don't want to run that risk. it is not the commission that is responsible, but in many respects the member states themselves, and they must assume this responsibility. we believe that modern industrial policy is a means of maintaining an attractive european location and of ensuring a competitive environment in the context of globalisation. the strengthening of the service sector is not possible without a strong industry. mr calabuig rull has pointed this out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. industry, with its high quality standards and good technological progress, has been and is the engine of economic development in europe, and all measures in the field of the environment and climate protection must also be measured in energy policy by whether they contribute to improving the framework conditions. but if we say that the member states are responsible for many measures, we have to consider whether we are not going too far in some of the points. better coordination: yes, european responsibility: no, sectoral expert groups: yes, competence and strategy plans for enterprises and regions: no, employee participation: yes, but general veto rights for works councils: no. i am convinced that these examples will help us to improve the present report by our colleague and that, in the end, we will be able to work together with the commission to draw up a workable guide for future industrial policy in the context of tensions with other policy areas.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the weaknesses of the commission's draft cannot be blamed on mr calabuig rull. we see the real weakness in the fact that this framework does not yet have a strategic reach. we believe that the basis for a successful strategy would be - and i repeat what my predecessor said - to clarify the interaction between industrial, regional, competition, trade and, last but not least, environmental policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe that one problem is that democratic control is waning in this area, and another is that small and mediumsized enterprises, which employ 50% of all workers in manufacturing, have almost no say in these high-level groups. when industrial firms in europe have failed in recent years because they were unable to innovate, it has not always been because of bad policy, but because some managers have not recognised the innovation potential of their employees or the need to innovate themselves.
we shall now suspend the debate on this report. the other speakers will be speaking tonight.
the next item is question time (b6-0312/2006). we shall deal with the following questions to the commission. part one
question no 34 by mr claude moraes (h-0544/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: footballis the commission aware of the problems which have arisen for many citizens in the author's constituency in connection with the commission's recent rules on broadcasting rights for football matches in the united kingdom? in some cases, it is very expensive to watch a football match, as viewers have to pay for multiple channels from different providers in order to watch certain matches. in this context, is it a fair system if television viewers are no longer able to enjoy a particular sport for economic reasons? how can people on low incomes watch their team's games if they have to pay for more than one channel?
member of the commission. i should like to underline once again that, when considering the application of ec law in the context of sport, it is important to draw a distinction between sport insofar as it generates economic activity and sporting rules as such. insofar as sport generates economic activity, it is subject to ec law, including the internal market and competition rules in the same way as other economic activities. so far so good! of course, as reflected in the nice declaration, the community takes account of the inherent social, educational and cultural aspects of sport when taking action under the treaty. the commission has followed this line in applying ec competition rules in individual cases and this approach has been confirmed by the european courts. when engaged in economic activity, sport governing bodies should, like any undertaking, ensure compliance with ec competition rules. i said that not all competition problems have been resolved, nor would i want a decision to be used against national authorities or courts should they wish to intervene further. it is clear that competition in itself creates economic activity; this makes competitors more alert and that is beneficial for the consumer and, in most cases, results in more diversity, more quality and a better price.
question no 35 by mr evans (h-0555/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: montenegro what immediate changes are envisaged in eu-montenegro relations in the light of the recent referendum and what additional support is the commission now considering?
member of the commission. following the referendum of 21 may 2006, which was conducted according to international standards and resulted in the victory of the pro-independence vote, the subsequent declaration of independence by the montenegrin parliament, as well as the reaction of the european union at the general affairs and external relations council on 12 june, montenegro and the european union are now in the process of establishing diplomatic relations. the commission intends to submit a proposal to the council shortly, requesting authorisation to negotiate with montenegro a stabilisation and association agreement based on the negotiating directives of 3 october 2005, which concerned the former state union of serbia and montenegro. in the same context, i would like to inform the house that we shall present a modified negotiating mandate for a stabilisation and association agreement with serbia. both countries, montenegro and serbia, have a concrete european perspective, like the other countries of the western balkans. here the stabilisation and association agreement is the first stepping stone, while the ultimate goal of this process is eu accession at a later stage, when each of the countries is able to fulfil the necessary conditions. this european perspective of the western balkans was confirmed by the european council in the middle of last month. the commission will intensify its monitoring of developments in montenegro, which will now have to face, on its own, all the responsibilities of its relationship with the european union, including implementation of the european partnership and the need to substantially strengthen its administrative and institutional capacity. this autumn the commission will issue a separate annual report for montenegro, which will include specific recommendations for the way ahead in the country. montenegro, like other countries in the region, will benefit from assistance under the forthcoming pre-accession financial instrument as of 2007. finally, the commission intends shortly to open an office in montenegro, which will be responsible for dialogue with the authorities and with civil society, the monitoring of reforms and the implementation of the financial instrument for pre-accession.
member of the commission. the question by the honourable member is extremely pertinent and important, especially from the point of view of the republic of montenegro and its citizens. the primary duty of the european commission office in montenegro will be to promote european integration and to promote the relationship between montenegro and the european union. thus indirectly it will certainly help to facilitate such economic and social development, including the development of tourism activities that will benefit the country and citizens in time. as regards forecasting when montenegro might be able to meet all the conditions of accession and thus accede to the european union, i will leave that to the betting agencies. from the point of view of the commission and the european parliament it is more important that they ensure the quality of the accession process rather than its speed. we have to emphasise substance more than schedule when we talk about accession negotiations or the pre-accession phase as now faced by the republic of montenegro.
i'm not going to tell you. i would just like to ask once again to make it clear that montenegro has exactly the same accession prospect from thessaloniki as all the other countries in the region and that montenegro has an exemplary minority policy, not least as regards minority issues. secondly, i would like to ask briefly: what is the situation with serbia now? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. the honourable member raises a very critical question. i can assure him and all of you that the republic of montenegro has the same prospects for the ultimate goal of eu membership as the other countries of the western balkans. it is therefore in the same position as all the countries of that region. minority rights are a critical condition. they concern all the countries of the region and we are stressing the need for minority rights to be respected in all the countries in that region, as well as in other candidate countries. that is mentioned in our report, which will be presented next autumn, most likely in october or november. as regards the level of negotiations with serbia, until recently we had negotiated with serbia and montenegro at two levels, on the basis of the twin-track approach, with the state union on the issues that fell within the competence of the state union and with the two republics on the issues that fell within the competence of the two republics. now we want to consolidate the substance of the negotiations achieved so far. once the council has adopted the new negotiating mandate for montenegro and the modified mandate for serbia, we can continue the negotiations on the basis of this consolidated result – in the case of serbia, of course, once it is cooperating fully with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. this method minimises any technical disruption, and with serbia, for instance, we can resume the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement immediately once serbia is cooperating fully with the icty.
question no 36 by mr andrás gyürk (h-0577/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: energy market surveys in the past month and their results last month, the commission carried out on-the-spot inspections of several major energy suppliers to determine how competition is being achieved in the european natural gas and energy markets. the establishment of free competition in the energy market is crucial for healthy european economies. since we are discussing the introduction of a possible common european energy policy in parallel with these measures and the results of the inspections will have to be used in the design of the strategy, i recommend that we make the inspection process known at the appropriate level and provide evidence of the results. what is the state of the investigation of this sector and what are the important results of the measures taken so far? when can we expect a final result? does the commission intend to take further steps towards completing the internal energy market?
member of the commission. as the commission confirmed on 17 may 2006, it has indeed recently carried out on-the-spot inspections of a number of major energy companies in europe. it is not possible to comment further on these ongoing investigations. as you are aware, inspections are carried out under articles 20 and 21 of the ec regulation and form a normal part of the commission’s enforcement activities in the competition field. in general, inspections are carried out because the commission has reason to believe that the companies concerned may have violated the anti-trust rules established in articles 82 and 81 of the treaty. article 28 of the regulation prohibits the commission from disclosing information acquired during an inspection, except in limited circumstances. however, as required by regulation (ec) no 1/2003, the commission publishes all its decisions in due course. the commission is also carrying out a sectoral inquiry into competition conditions in the eu gas and electricity markets. this is a distinct exercise from the individual investigations and inspections to which the honourable member refers, but the extensive information about the functioning of the energy markets that is gathered during the sectoral inquiry will of course help to inform any enforcement action taken by the commission in individual cases. the main preliminary findings of the sectoral inquiry were published in february 2006 and identified a number of existing barriers to competition. for example, national wholesale energy markets are still highly concentrated, with few new competitors entering the sector. there is also far too little integration between the national markets. infrastructure and supply functions are so closely connected that it is difficult for new suppliers to enter the market, which means that consumers are denied choice. there is a lack of transparency, so new competitors also cannot get hold of the information. they need to get a foot in the door. finally, prices do not appear to respond to changes in supply and demand. tackling these problems will require a combination of regulatory and structural reform and robust enforcement of competition rules. the commission is committed to taking any necessary enforcement action if that proves justified. the sectoral inquiry will be completed by the end of the year. the commission will then decide whether any further measures are required in order to improve competition conditions in the gas and electricity markets. the information gathered through the sectoral inquiry will also play an important role in the ongoing formulation of a common european energy policy, as agreed by the spring european council. the commission is also conducting a review on implementation of the european regulatory measures in the energy sector. this work is being led by the commissioner in charge of energy, mr piebalgs, and the commission will report to parliament and to the council at the turn of the year. that report will also reflect on any further action that is needed to complete the integration of europe’s energy markets. all the information gathered during the sectoral inquiry and the review of implementation of the liberalisation directives, together with other information received through consultation with the stakeholders, will of course play a key part in the formulation of a common european energy policy.
member of the commission. the honourable member rightly touched upon the question of whether this is enough. i have explained to the honourable member that the commission has already initiated a number of investigations where it appears that anti-competitive behaviour contributes to the problems identified by the energy sector inquiry. however, competition law cannot open markets by itself, as the member will be aware. we need to complement our enforcement through an improved legal framework, increasing transparency, improving cross-border coordination, etc. regulatory changes may be needed for us to reap the full benefits of our energy markets. once we have the full report of the inquiry into competition conditions in the energy sector, we will reflect further on what changes may be required. my colleague, mr piebalgs, is looking at the level of current implementation of the existing liberalisation directives in the energy sector. depending on the results of that review, further measures to liberalise the markets will be considered. full structural unbundling is one option to consider. the member will certainly conclude that we will take measures when we can see that there is something rotten in the state.
member of the commission. as the honourable member rightly mentioned, there has been quite some change to the whole energy market scene. europe needs stable relationships with the main producers outside the eu too. however, this does not and must not prevent us from ensuring that there is an integrated, competitive market within the eu. an open and competitive, flexible and interconnected single eu market will guarantee a secure energy position for the future as it will make the european market attractive to external suppliers; so that is all part of the game. such a market will also be open to embracing new energy mixes. it will be able to muster the internal strength needed to master the international challenges in this field.
question no 37 will not be taken, since it relates to a matter already on the agenda for this part-session.
as they concern the same subject, the following questions will be dealt with together: question no 38 by mr bernd posselt (h-0509/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: situation in russia how does the commission assess the situation in russia with regard to human rights and prison conditions, not least with regard to the prisoners platon lebedev and mikhail khodorkovsky? question no 39 by mr horáček (h-0558/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: situation in russiawhat can you tell us about human rights violations in the russian federation and how do you assess the situation of prisoners in russia in this respect, especially in relation to the situation of prisoners platon lebedev and michael khodorkovsky?
member of the commission. the commission follows the human rights situation in russia very closely and, through the eu’s political dialogue with russia, as well as the regular human rights consultations, we are able to raise issues relating to democracy, human rights and the rule of law with russia. we have raised concerns about the situation of prisoners in russia in the human rights consultations and we have reminded the russian authorities of the need to respect internationally recognised standards. in that respect, russia’s agreement to publication of the reports by the council of europe’s committee for the prevention of torture would be a positive step forward. with regard to the specific situation of mr khodorkovsky and mr lebedev, we are aware of the concerns expressed about the judicial process – the verdict and the sentence – and their current situation. the european union has repeatedly underlined the need for the judicial system to be seen to operate fairly and transparently if it is to command the confidence of both the russian population and the international community. we will continue to monitor the issue of the prison conditions in russia, including the situation of those two gentlemen.
- i'm not sure. thank you very much for this detailed answer. i would just like to ask you in addition whether the commission's representation in moscow has already contacted the families of the prisoners or whether it could do so. secondly, there are clearly unjustified punishments against the prisoners, which are also in violation of russian law: sanctions that can prolong their detention, and also removal from their home country are contrary to russian law. i just wanted to ask you to bring this to the attention of the russian authorities.
do you not see a link between the examples of the violation of media freedom, the restriction of civil society by the new ngo law, the human rights violations in chechnya and these conditions of detention? they do not actually comply with russian law. they were convicted in the moscow region, they should be in prison there. but after the show process i've been through myself, i see a connection. everything that can be ignored is ignored here.
member of the commission. i can confirm that the commission will continue to follow the issue of prison conditions in russia, as i have just pointed out, including the situation of mr khodorkovsky and mr lebedev. it will do so with a view also to considering whether the eu as a whole should raise this matter at the next round of human rights consultations.
member of the commission. i can tell the honourable member that we are only at the beginning of our negotiations on the energy issue, but that we have already addressed very clearly at the european summit in sochi the important issues of transparency, reciprocity and general balanced regulations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so these basic rules will be incorporated and later on there will be separate sectoral agreements.
question no 40 by mr nicholson of winterbourne (h-0511/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: recognised operational guidelines for dealing with hostage-takers most of the incidents that come to light are high-profile because they involve foreign aid workers, journalists and reconstruction engineers. however, the number of kidnappings involving foreigners in iraq is actually very small compared to the thousands of iraqis being held hostage. experts agree that kidnappings in iraq are carried out by numerous criminal and terrorist groups for a variety of reasons but often the motives are financial. the commission has also been working on a new strategy for the prevention of terrorism, which will be launched in the coming months. the payment of ransom is a particularly unwelcome and short-sighted step, as it is far from discouraging hostage-taking, encouraging its spread and putting both foreigners and iraqis at greater risk. what steps can the commission take in this context to introduce common guidelines and codes of conduct for eu member states when faced with this threat in iraq and elsewhere?
member of the commission. of course we very strongly deplore the critical security situation in iraq and the situation that makes life extremely difficult for iraqis and for the foreigners there. we condemn all forms of violence that hamper the day-to-day life of ordinary iraqis and prevent the country from entering into the state of peace and stability it really deserves. the practice of hostage-taking constitutes a serious threat to the population. informal reports indicate that the reasons for kidnapping range from political to purely criminal motivations and there is no excuse for that. kidnappings are devastating for all those involved and our sympathies are extended to families, friends and colleagues and whoever is affected. it is, however, within the competence of the member states to pursue the individual cases of eu nationals taken hostage. regarding the iraqi nationals, it is very important that prime minister al-maliki tries to stop the violence through national reconciliation initiatives, although we also have to concede that the situation is not yet stable. this is the difficult situation we are in at the moment. certainly paying ransoms is not a viable solution to the problem of hostage-taking in iraq and the commission has made it clear that it discourages such action.
member of the commission. i can only say that i would indeed immediately support such action and i will instruct the commission delegation to the united nations to see whether more can be done. i completely agree with you: there really are so many heinous acts there that we must all try to do as much as we can. however, i have to repeat that ultimately, of course, this is also the responsibility of each and every member state; but we will certainly try to support those actions that the un has already taken.
member of the commission. there's a ton of programs here. we have been working very hard since 2003 to stabilise iraq, and we have already spent 513 million euros on this. another 200 million euros are earmarked for this year, for example, and i must say that the programmes are very broad. the first is the programmes run by the world bank and the un fund, which are geared to the basic needs of the population, such as education, health, water. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission will also be supporting the development of the new framework programme for the european union's external action in the field of education and training. the commission has provided financial support for this, and we will of course continue to make every effort to contribute to national dialogue and reconciliation. this year, another 200 million is planned, so it is a large sum.
question no 41 by mr justas vincas paleckis (h-0524/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eu-russia cooperationthe time has come to start the practical work to prepare the renewal of the eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement, which expires in 2007. what is the commission's view of the future agreement? is it planned to limit the space to four common areas? should the future agreement be broader or narrower? how will the new agreement reflect the commission's 2006 green paper on a secure, competitive and sustainable energy policy? there are different signals coming from russia about possible future agreements. some russian politicians and political scientists believe that the eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement signed in 1997 was not beneficial for russia because it was unbalanced and dictated by brussels. how does the commission assess such statements?
member of the commission. it is very important to note that this energy question shows that today we have an interdependent relationship with russia. that means that we are an important customer for russia. we buy 25% of its gas, 27% of its oil and some of its uranium. that is also highly important for russia. so that will certainly be one of the major questions raised during the g8 meeting with russia. it was also a very important and central question during the sochi summit. with regard to other questions, there will be a sort of monitoring centre, which will very carefully control and check what has been done on the other side. but i believe it is most important that first we find the right principles. those principles should be anchored and then we can fine-tune these questions in sector agreements and take a very concrete approach.
member of the commission. i have indeed said before that, in the long term, further development of our trade relations is possible, but it depends on the progress made with regard to russia’s accession to the wto. of course, this depends first and foremost on the wto. then we have to see how we take the idea of a free trade agreement forward. it is certainly a mid- to long-term goal, that is clear.
member of the commission. given the experience we have gained with russia over many years, we can assume that russia is a reliable partner. but we must also see that there was a wake-up call here when the problems with ukraine arose. it is therefore very important to find a market-oriented but transparent solution for energy supplies in the future. the commission is of the opinion that market prices must be established, but that, for example, adjustment to market prices in ukraine should be gradual and not take place overnight, and that no pressure should be exerted here.
question no 48 by mr tarabella (h-0502/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: right of residence of european union citizensreferring to directive 2004/38/ec oj l 158, 30.4.2004, p. 77, the progress made by this text towards better integration of european citizens is to be welcomed. however, it is regrettable that the term 'right of permanent residence' is used, which is a contradiction in itself, since the term 'residence' necessarily implies a time limit. can the commission also guarantee that full equality of treatment between union citizens and nationals of the member state concerned will include the issue of a genuine identity card and no longer a residence permit, as is the case in belgium, for example, since the residence permit is not the same as the identity card and this designation is also shocking, even offensive, to citizens who emigrated several decades ago and who spent their working and family life in the host country?
vice-president of the commission. madam president, the commission considers that the expression 'right of permanent residence' does not necessarily imply a contradiction, since the concept of residence, understood as the period during which one resides in a place, can be long-term, or even permanent. moreover, this is a concept which has not been the subject of any comments in the sense suggested by the honourable member, either during the preparation of the text by the commission, or during the discussions on the directive in the council, or here in the european parliament. as regards the second observation, the commission notes, as a preliminary point, that as established in article 18 of the treaty, and confirmed by the case law of the court of justice, the right of residence derives directly from the treaty for the union citizen whose residence documents serve only to establish that right. in line with this idea, one of the major objectives of directive 2004/38/ec has been to simplify the administrative formalities attached to the right of residence. according to this text, citizens of the union do not have to obtain a residence card in their member state of residence, since a simple registration with the competent authorities is sufficient, which is required only if the host member state deems it necessary. in this case, a registration certificate shall be issued immediately to union citizens on presentation of their identity card or passport and proof that they fulfil the conditions attached to the right of residence. after five years of continuous legal residence, citizens of the union obtain a right of permanent residence without any conditions and, if they apply for it, the host member state must issue them with a document attesting to this right. in conclusion, as also provided for in the same directive 2004/38/ec, member states, acting in accordance with their national legislation, issue or renew to their nationals an identity card or a passport indicating their nationality. it follows that a host member state cannot issue an identity card, in the strict sense, to a non-national citizen of the union. (e) an identity card or passport issued by the state of his nationality, stating, as provided for, his identity and nationality and, if required by the host member state, a certificate issued by the latter, attesting his right of residence.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, this situation, which is shocking, is certainly one of the consequences of the application of this directive. it is clear that we are also following what you call precisely 'concrete cases' and i assure you that if there are any infringements in the application of this directive - which not all member states have yet transposed into national legislation - we will exercise the powers of the commission in these cases.
question no 49 by sarah ludford (h-0504/06) subject: the use of the euro in the european union subject: the 'passerelle clause' for the free movement of goods at their meeting in vienna on 27 and 28 may, the foreign ministers apparently failed to reach agreement on the commission's proposal to apply the bridging or 'passerelle' clause of the treaty of nice to transfer more powers for justice and home affairs from the third pillar to the first (community) pillar. how is the commission reacting to this failure and what further concrete proposals will it make to promote efficiency, democracy and transparency in decisions in the field of justice and home affairs?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i can only confirm to you what the european council agreed just a few days ago, namely the commitment to do everything possible to ensure that the target date for autumn 2007 is confirmed. i am aware of the existence of some technical problems, but i am also aware of the political decision which the european council confirmed a few days ago, and which we are obliged to respect and to enforce. that is our commitment.
question no 50 by mr zdzislaw kazimierz chmielewski (h-0512/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: situation of disabled people in penitentiaries the problematic situation of disabled people in prison is of little interest. in fact, none of the eu programmes, not even those such as the programme to combat social exclusion, the programme to combat discrimination, the programme for labour market measures, the econtent programme or the european social fund, address the problem of the rehabilitation of convicted persons with disabilities. the eu documents of 2003 also make little specific reference to this issue, even though 2003 was the european year of people with disabilities. it is therefore of particular importance that the council, the commission and the european parliament should address this problem. how far has the preparation of appropriate eu rules for people with disabilities in prison progressed? the most urgent need seems to be the introduction of training programmes to adapt the persons concerned to the requirements of the labour market.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i am well aware of these real problems. i believe that european action, without the need for binding european laws, which are not possible in this area, can be carried out in the fight against discrimination. we are ready to examine, and as i said, i will do so with my colleague mr špidla, any possibility of projects aimed at promoting the social reintegration of those who have been in prison, who have been sentenced, but who are disabled and who therefore have greater difficulties.
question no 59 by mr toussas (h-0515/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: dismissal as reprisal against trade unionists the company 'wackenhut security transport ag' dismissed trade unionist petros kefalas, general secretary of the union of employees in companies and public limited companies and member of the management of the union of employees of the said company, because he had protested at the company's general director against the unjust dismissal of a colleague; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment to women in the labour market. this dismissal was planned as part of a long-standing 'tripartite cooperation' between employers, the state and workers and is now to be 'legitimised' with the support of the association of greek entrepreneurs (seb), whose members also practice threats and insults against workers. what is the commission's view of the dismissals of trade unionists as a repressive measure and of the creation of a climate of fear at the workplace? what is your position on the restoration of trade union protection for petros kefalas?
- i'm not sure. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but nevertheless we are only allowed to ask questions for 20 minutes per commissioner on a piecemeal basis. that is what is in our rules of procedure, and we have already spent well over twenty minutes with mr frattini on the second part. i'm afraid i'm going to have to interrupt you. questions shall be answered in writing. we have now moved on to the third part of question time. that is the rule of the rules of procedure. i'm sorry about that. that's not the intention.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, i would just like to confirm to the honourable member that the definition of trade union representation, and therefore the protection of trade union representation, is a definition which is present in the vast majority of member states and it is therefore clear that from this derives the possibility of concrete protection. i share your general concern about the redundancies for reasons of anti-union reprisals. in many countries the actions of the judiciary are very concrete and very incisive. i believe that when the reasons for retaliation are established, the judiciary should intervene with particularly forceful measures. this is the only possibility, but it is not open to the institutions of the european union.
question no 60 by mr papadimoulis (h-0537/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: greek legislation on the enforcement of court judgmentsaccording to article 20 of law 3301/2004 (government gazette 263 of 23.12.2004), the public service in greece, local self-government bodies and legal persons governed by public law are exempted from the obligation to enforce certain court judgments, such as insurance measures and payment orders. article 4e of law 3388/2005 (government gazette 225 of 12.9.2005) extended the above exemptions to legal entities governed by private law in the wider public sector. legal circles are complaining that these regulations violate the rights of citizens. in response to my question (e-4752/05), the commission replied: 'before the commission can comment on this legislation, it must complete its examination of the documents recently received and, if necessary, also ask the greek government for clarifications.' has the commission examined the matter? what is your comment on these regulations? does it consider that these are compatible with community law and international treaties? what measures does it intend to take?
it wasn't a request, as you said yourself. but i would ask you to look again at the rules of procedure, how question time is organized. it's all done correctly, and the order is not being messed up. the questions which are no longer answered orally will be answered in writing and your question no 54 will be among the written replies.
- i'm not going to. this is not a point of order and i shall end your intervention.
question no 61 by mr proinsias de rossa (h-0547/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: implementation of the posting of workers directive in ireland following the commission's reply to my question h-0060/06 at the february ii meeting written reply of 15.2.2006. i would like to know what reply the commission has received from the irish authorities to its request for further clarification on the implementation of the posting of workers directive (96/71/ec) oj l 18, 21.1.1997, p. 1-6. does the commission now consider that the directive has been fully and correctly transposed in ireland in accordance with the criteria established by the case law of the european court of justice? what action has the commission taken or is it planning to take in this area?
vice-president of the commission. madam president, mr president-in-office, i can certainly share your view that it is essential to implement the directive on the posting of workers in practice and in full. i too believe that the disadvantages of the posted and transferred worker must be totally and completely avoided. that is why, as i said, we are not confining ourselves to examining individual cases, such as the one in ireland, which we are currently assessing, but have decided to carry out an overall assessment, state by state, of the level of implementation of the directive because, as you said, we cannot confine ourselves to the specific case, which emerges as a crisis situation, but we need to know whether and how the member states are fully implementing that directive, which is of great importance.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only say that ireland, which has so far been one of the few member states of the union to recognise the full right of movement of workers from the new member states of the european union, has not found itself in a particularly uncomfortable situation as a result of this decision. you are well aware, mr president, that the commission strongly encourages all the member states - let us say the old member states of the european union - to open up their labour markets to the new member states of the european union and to their workers. we have noted - mr špidla has done so in one of his papers - that the flows of workers between the new member states and the old member states which already allow this have not been such as to alter the working conditions and the internal labour market of those countries, including ireland. i do not wish to comment on the prime minister's words, but i would say that the european commission's view is that the citizens of the new member states of the european union should be granted the right to free movement - even after a transitional period, which we hope will be short.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the commission's attitude reflects its need to know the situation before taking decisions. the matter we are dealing with is complex. when we have an overall assessment of the state of implementation of the directive in the spring of next year, we will take action against those states which do not apply it or do not apply it properly. this does not exclude that in individual cases, such as the one presented, concerning ireland, if the answers given are not satisfactory, if, despite the answers of the irish government, a breach or a failure to apply the directive is found, the commission will have specific powers vis-à-vis that country. it is clear, however, that before taking any action, especially if it is an action against a state, the commission must know exactly what is going on. this is one of the key principles of the rule of law: if there is an accusation against someone, say a country, they must be given the opportunity to defend themselves before an assessment can be made.
i'm not going to tell you. i thank you. we have reached the end of question time. questions which have not been dealt with for reasons of time will be answered in writing (see annex). i would point out that questions nos 69 and 86 are inadmissible and will therefore not be answered. question time is closed. i wish you all a good rest, and those of you who have the chance to see an exciting football game tonight, please don't get so excited, only one can win. (the sitting was suspended at 7.20 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. parliamentary work must not suffer even from this football event. the second reading of the forthcoming directive on the technical requirements for inland waterway vessels is a relic of the last century: in december 1997, the commission had already submitted a proposal for the then outdated but still valid predecessor directive 82/714/eec. the first reading took place in the european parliament in october 1998. the treaty of amsterdam followed on 1 may 1999 and with it the codecision procedure in the transport sector. the first reading had to be repeated in september 1999, but parliament confirmed its position from the first reading. it's not over! shortly after the turn of the century, in july 2000, the commission presented a revised draft taking account of parliament's wishes. what's the matter? the aim is to finally create uniform conditions for european inland waterway transport. updated technical regulations are designed to ensure the safety and ease of navigation on europe's inland waterways. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to grant aid to the shipbuilding industry in the form of a loan of ecu 1 million to finance the construction of a new shipbuilding plant in the port of bremen. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include the following provisions: the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work, the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work, the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work, and the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. however, the harmonization of technical regulations and safety standards to the highest standard is a prerequisite for freedom of navigation on all eu inland waterways. this applies both to the free movement of goods and to the guarantee of high safety, environmental and social standards. until now, community law has been limited to the area covered by the mannheim act. the act signed on 17 october 1868 laid down the principles still applicable to the rhine, the establishment of the central commission for the navigation of the rhine being an annex to the vienna final act of 1815. the eu has therefore not been able to legislate on the rhine, although 80% of all goods transported on europe's inland waterways move along it. the mutual recognition of shipping certificates has only been possible since the entry into force of an additional protocol to the mannheim act in december 2004. the most important content of the new directive is the introduction of a single certificate for inland waterway vessels in the eu. it has to do with legal certainty. there have been some problems recently with the inclusion of sports boats between 20 and 24 metres in length, which may fall both within the scope of this directive and within the scope of the so-called sport boat directive, directive 94/25/ec. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of the single market. the revised directive on technical requirements for inland waterway transport goes beyond the establishment of the sport boat directive only where safety on inland waterways requires it. it does not therefore contravene the provisions of the sport boat directive. experience with recreational boating on the rhine shows that owners of recreational boats have no problems with the rhine regulations, which are comparable to the future revised technical regulations directive. the transport committee took the view that the technical rules in the annex to the directive, inter alia chapter 15 'special provisions for passenger ships', which are at the stage of the 2004 negotiations due to the length of the negotiations and the long translation periods, should be incorporated into the comitology procedure. the committee endorsed an amendment to this effect. this is the only way to ensure that the harmonization of existing legal systems can be completed without delay and, in turn, to create legal certainty for industry and commerce. i therefore ask you to support this one amendment at second reading. in conclusion, i should like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to the council and the commission, and of course to my colleagues, for the good cooperation they have shown on this dossier. i thank you for your attention and can only say: ship ahoi!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the naiades action programme has already been mentioned, and with this programme, which is not yet being negotiated, inland waterway transport is finally receiving the attention and support of the european legislator that it deserves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament will adopt a second reading on the harmonization of technical regulations for inland waterway vessels. this marks the end of a legislative process which has now lasted nine years. this directive aligns community standards with the wider standards of the rhine navigation act. we believe that this will ensure that all inland waterways are open to competition and that the same high safety standards are maintained. the european parliament and the council have made various amendments to the common position at first reading and in the course of the procedure. i am in agreement with the rapporteur, whom i would like to thank for her report, and i believe that these amendments are acceptable on the whole and that they are a useful addition to the original commission proposal. we also see the parallelism of legislation on certain types of vessel mentioned in the amendment tabled by mr grosch and mrs wortmann-kool. we have now been informed that these are different pieces of legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
the commission's vice-president mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for this enriching debate which has confirmed that the commission's proposal, which dates from 1997, has remained fully up to date. i would like to thank mrs sommer, your rapporteur, in particular. parliament thus confirms its commitment to inland navigation, and this directive will facilitate the establishment of a single regime for all the waterways of the european union. this agreement is an important step in our strategy of harmonising rules at european level, as called for in the naiade action plan, and will thus contribute to the competitiveness of inland navigation in the community. mr president, i would like to express my gratitude to all the members who have taken part in this excellent work.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think it would also apply to this legislation on eu ops. i do not want to spend much time reviewing the long process of will-building which we have gone through in six years with two first readings and various commission proposals. it has become clear to me that we parliamentarians are process workers, and many people have really contributed to this process. i would like to take this opportunity to thank brian simpson again for his good work in the last parliament. i would also like to thank all the members for the constructive cooperation they have shown during this parliamentary term. i also thank the commission for its good mediation work, especially mr salvarani, who, like me, cannot watch the football match today. thank you very much for being here, and not least for the council's willingness to compromise. the result of the negotiations can be seen and brings european added value. after the liberalisation of the european aviation sector and the great enlargement in 2004, we have finally succeeded in harmonising all safety-related technical standards and administrative regulations in civil aviation. and it is high time, too, given the continuing growth in air travel. almost 500 pages of safety standards cover everything from design to instrumentation to the transport of dangerous goods. the most controversial were sections o and q, which concern the training of cabin crew and the duty, flight and rest periods of pilots. this is not surprising, since security issues also affect the social concerns of those concerned. however, i think that in this area too we have succeeded in defining a provisional platform which for many countries means a significant increase in the existing safety standards. the committee on transport made the following important amendments before the second reading: firstly, a safeguard clause to prevent countries with higher legal or tariff standards from forcibly lowering those standards, with consequences for the safety and social interests of those involved in the flight. we did it. secondly, it has been demonstrated in hearings and numerous studies that the issue of pilot fatigue accumulation due to improper flight planning requires further investigation after the present outcome. the council has proposed that this issue be put back on the agenda in three years' time. that is not enough from the point of view of parliament. we were able to ensure that a new scientific and medical study should be available for both sections - also for section o - after two years. thirdly, the concern of the cabin crew to have their status upgraded was raised with us as members of parliament until recently, and i believe that we are taking this concern into account in our requests, as far as it is relevant to safety. we have insisted in the negotiations with the council that further harmonization and qualitative improvement of training should remain an issue and that this point should also be the subject of study. i also believe that the safeguard clause applies to the very different way in which certificates and licences are handled in europe, so that deterioration of status in individual countries will not be the result of our legislation. fourthly, the initial work on eu-ops did not take into account the special situation of night express services. we have also reached a compromise with all parties concerned to ensure that their specific flight schedules are adequately treated with the same level of safety as in other areas. once again, my conclusion: what lasts long, finally becomes good. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i ask all the groups to support the compromise reached with the council.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are on the verge of obtaining agreement with the council on a second reading on such a sensitive proposal. we owe this above all to the excellent work of your rapporteur, mr ulrich stockmann, and i would like to congratulate him in particular. let me remind you of the approach behind the proposal for a regulation. the main objective is to maintain a high level of safety while ensuring fair competition between air carriers. the amended 2004 proposal introduced provisions on flight time and crew rest, commonly known as flight time limitation, in response to a request from the european parliament concerned about the national disparities in this area. professional pilot associations and several airlines have long been strongly critical of these disparities, which are detrimental to safety and normal competition. indeed, many accident investigations have pointed to crew fatigue as one of the factors in these accidents. the regulations on flight time are sometimes too flexible and allow airlines to make staff work for excessively long hours, to the detriment of safety and companies subject to stricter legislation. the amendment, dated 2004, also implies the certification of cabin crew on the basis of minimum requirements, as is the case in the united states and as was requested by the staff concerned and by part of the industry. these minimum requirements should improve aviation safety by raising the quality level of personnel. they must also bring about a convergence of the conditions of competition between airlines and facilitate the mobility of staff within a fully liberalised air transport market. it is true that the council had great difficulty in reaching agreement because of the very different views of the member states. but the council finally managed to reach a compromise on a common position at the end of february 2006. in its common position, the council notes that the amendment proposed by parliament has been adopted in its entirety, with the exception of some minor adjustments. the commission naturally accepts this position of the council, which is prepared to adopt the main elements of parliament's proposal. on some points, notably the limitation of flight time for cabin crew, we simply need to make a scientific and medical assessment before we can make a decision on the matter. the european aviation safety agency would be responsible for this analysis. since the council's common position, intensive work has been carried out by our three institutions to reach an agreement at second reading. the common position has been clarified and improved by the amendments of the european parliament, and i am particularly grateful to mr ulrich stockmann for this text. the first improvement concerns airlines whose activity is based exclusively on night operations. the commission, in agreement with parliament, considers it necessary to assess the safety and fatigue consequences of the provisions on flight time and rest limits. on the basis of this assessment, the commission will propose the necessary amendments to take account of these specific operating models. the second improvement concerns the scientific and medical evaluation of the provisions on flight time limitations and cabin crew. this evaluation will be carried out by the european aviation safety agency. i can confirm that i have already asked the european aviation safety agency to include this assessment in its 2007 work programme with a view to preparing a draft of measures to be submitted to the commission. on this basis, the period of analysis can be effectively reduced, mr stockman, to two years, as proposed by parliament. the commission will make a statement to further specify the nature of these studies, in particular with regard to the behaviour and training of cabin crew in emergency conditions. finally, thirdly, the commission proposal aims to establish minimum safety rules which are harmonised at a high level and applicable throughout the community. however, in a number of member states, more stringent national measures may be in force. the commission agrees that nothing in this regulation should lead to a reduction in higher safety standards where they already exist. mr president, i have concluded. the commission can therefore accept without any difficulty amendments which reflect these three principles and therefore supports the compromise amendments, namely amendments nos 19 to 25. the commission does not support amendments nos 11, 16 and 17 because they are duplicative and are in fact covered by the compromise amendments. the same applies to amendments nos 12 to 15 and amendment no 18. these are technical amendments to various parts of the annex which will in fact be settled by the comitology procedure provided for in this regulation. i believe that this work, which is appreciated by the representatives of the airline industry, bears the hallmark of parliamentary work. i thank the rapporteur and the members of parliament for this.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the harmonization of the very different technical regulations in european civil aviation, especially with regard to flight crew duty hours, is urgently needed. these days millions of europeans are once again taking to the air for their holidays. air travel in particular has exploded in europe over the last 20 years. there are virtually no national borders in air traffic. in this respect, it is an anachronism that regulations governing aviation safety still differ widely from one country to another. the aim of the draft regulation is to achieve at least approximation. i believe that this objective is supported by all the groups in this house. we can therefore limit ourselves to making changes in a few areas, such as regulations which disadvantage cargo airlines: changes must be made here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. collective agreements under labour law cannot be the subject of state action, including that of the european union. if we do not forget that the regulation is only for the purpose of ensuring safety in air transport, i am sure that in the future passengers will be able to expect comparable safety standards in the technical field, no matter which airport in the european union they board. that alone is why this regulation is worth supporting. i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr stockmann, for his thorough work.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. let's just be happy for now. we have succeeded in completing this dossier thanks to the persistence of parliament and the support of the commission. five years, a lot of work and sweat. let's just be happy for now. secondly, commissioner, you must have courage. we ask that you review the special arrangements for night express services. the council would say that it sees this as an excuse for doing nothing. be brave, do something, make some suggestions. i believe that the actual living conditions of pilots of passenger planes and pilots of cargo planes are simply different. i would like to ask the vice-president and all the members to understand that i have not used up my two minutes. we are all in agreement here, and there is something very exciting on television, and i ask for your understanding that i will now turn to the exciting.
member of the commission. mr president, the proposal that is the subject of mr seppänen’s report aims at modifying and replacing directive 92/3/euratom, which lays down a community uniform administrative procedure applicable to the shipment of radioactive waste. i would first like to recall the aims of this proposal, which are: to ensure consistency with other community legislation on radiation protection; to ensure consistency with international conventions; to clarify the procedures; to simplify the structure and wording of the existing directive; and to enhance certainty, firstly by explicitly including transfers of spent fuel for re-processing – the same control procedure is now applied to all shipments of spent fuel, independently of the intended use – and secondly by generalising the automatic consent procedure. the consent of member state of transit and of destination is assumed after a reasonable deadline. this proposal takes into consideration the experience of application of the existing directive. it further takes fully into account the opinion given by the european economic and social committee on 9 june 2005, as well as the informal discussions held at the council and in parliament during 2005. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr seppänen, for the excellent report he prepared, which has received the strong support of the committee on industry, research and energy. the amendments mainly seek to clarify the commission’s proposal, and are therefore welcome. i am therefore confident that the council will take duly into consideration the content of parliament’s opinion, insofar as it might contribute to improving the directive. the commission will present positively the inclusion in the directive of the amendments in the seppänen report. i would like to encourage you to adopt the recommendation submitted by the itre committee, as this represents the best way to promote our common objectives. it enhances certainty with regard to the community uniform procedure which is applicable to the control of shipments of radioactive waste and nuclear spent fuel. i look forward to the forthcoming debate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would like to thank the commission for being willing to withdraw the first proposal and to take account of the debate in parliament in its second proposal. so we started to get close. the same applies to the rapporteur, who was prepared - and has now lost some of that willingness - to find a sensible solution together with the large groups and the commission. the report now before us is reasonable. we can carry him. we do not, however, think that the green group's proposals deserve our support. the epp-ed group supports the draft report by mr seppänen in its entirety. but we shall reject the amendments which have been tabled again contrary to our original agreement. the basis is articles 31 and 32 of the euratom treaty, which deal with health and safety. i would point out that this is not a codecision procedure, but only a consultation procedure. new aspects have been introduced, such as the extended scope for spent fuel elements, final storage or reprocessing, the automatic approval procedure for shipments and the separation between shipments within and outside the community. the green group's proposal cannot be accepted by us. in particular, motion no 23, which provides for the most extensive advance information obligation, can only be seen as a call for widespread demonstrations. mrs harms has stressed that. she's failed at this before. she's picked up on it. we are much more honest with each other when we deal with the unresolved question of final disposal together and do not insist that one side of parliament is right and the other side is wrong. i thank mr seppänen for his willingness to speak to us and i believe that we can largely agree with the report as it stands.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by thanking mr esko seppänen for his keen awareness of the problems involved in the market conditions for such a difficult commodity as nuclear waste or spent fuel. i would like to give the reasons for two amendments tabled by my group which are of particular concern to me. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's nuclear waste is not disposed of in the same way as the waste from nuclear power stations. i am particularly concerned about exports to russia. those who are concerned with the matter have already noticed the sites of mayak and chelyabinsk: recycling plants in the urals, which have been in operation for decades and which process or receive for storage not only soviet waste but also increasingly european waste. there have been a number of accidents at these facilities. but not only during accidents, but also during normal operation, there are enormous releases of radioactivity. the rivers and lakes of the urals are highly polluted, and by orders of magnitude worse than, for example, in some cases in the chernobyl exclusion zone. we have reached a situation where we can no longer measure with two different standards. such plants could not be operated in the eu, so europeans are not allowed to send their waste there for storage, disposal or recycling. the fact that this is all still recycling, that is, further use of these nuclear materials, can no longer be demonstrated, since a comprehensible balance sheet of recycling and reuse is not at all publicly discernible. if we allow thousands of tonnes of nuclear waste from the european union to be exported to russia, we are taking on an ever greater responsibility. i would like to stress that we are already responsible for the deplorable state of the environment and the health of the people in the region around mayak and chelyabinsk, since exports are not just beginning. i am firmly convinced that the responsibility for solving the nuclear waste problem must be borne entirely by those countries which are the ones creating the problem. our nuclear waste is not russia's fault, it is our own countries' fault.
president of the council. i would like to thank you, mr president, members of parliament and political groups, the president and vice-president of the commission and the honourable members for the opportunity to discuss with the european parliament the priorities and the main objectives of the finnish presidency. the presidency of the european union is a demanding task, but at the same time a great honour and a privilege which finland is happy to assume. our cooperation with the european parliament as the presidency has started well. i would like to thank the president of parliament and all the other members of the european parliament who took part in the meeting between the finnish government and parliament in helsinki. several committees and political groups of the european parliament have also visited finland and had useful discussions on the objectives of our presidency. throughout its membership, finland has supported efforts to improve the efficiency of the union's institutions and to improve close cooperation between them. as president, we will work in close and good cooperation with the european parliament. i am not referring here to the role of the parliament as a co-legislator on an equal footing with the council in the co-decision procedure, but to the wider role of the parliament in promoting the union's core objectives. finland's own national parliament, the parliament, is celebrating a festive year. this year marks the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the unicameral parliament and of universal and equal suffrage. all, both women and men, were granted the right to vote and to stand for election at the same time. we are proud of this landmark of our democracy. in finland, the parliament is closely involved in eu affairs and has a great deal of influence. perhaps this experience of fruitful cooperation with parliament has in part made it so natural for us finns to cooperate closely with the european parliament too. the work of the european parliament and national parliaments is not overlapping; each has its own role in union affairs. but they share the same fundamental objective: to strengthen democracy in the union. finland's presidency will aim to turn the union's gaze outwards and forward. we must think about the kind of union we want in 10 to 20 years' time and how we will achieve it. we must, as europeans, recognize the historic forces of change in our time, respond to them and make them our partners. the eu is facing a major challenge in dealing with globalisation. the world around the union is changing and if we do not take precautions we will fall further behind. it would be devastating, above all, for the future of our children, for future generations. for their sake, europe must stop looking inward and consider its place in the global world in the longer term. the world around us is not waiting. our future requires us to take concrete action now, even if the effects of that action are not seen until later. in recent years, there has been a certain amount of hope in the union's decisionmaking capacity, and citizens are increasingly critical of it. however, i do not share the pessimism about the crisis of the union, but believe that its current problems can be overcome. the agreement on the financial framework and the progress made on the services directive are examples of the union's ability to take important decisions when there is political will. i believe that it is to be found in all the institutions of the union. the european union is a community of values which exists for its citizens. the decline in the union's legitimacy, legitimacy and credibility in the eyes of the citizens must therefore be taken seriously. part of this feeling of a weakening of the union's legitimacy is that citizens do not know what the union is doing for them. many issues that have a tangible impact on the lives of many citizens such as the right to live, work and study anywhere in the union are taken for granted. it is not to be remembered that they are made possible by the union itself. but the lack of information does not explain everything, and the union must also be able to improve its performance. the union must be able to deliver results that citizens can see in their own lives. the union's fundamental premise of safeguarding peace and stability in europe remains relevant. i was reminded of this personally on my visit to croatia a few weeks ago. they want to be part of the union so that they and their children will never have to see war again. many others, however, who have lived in peace all their lives, tend to take peace and stability for granted. it is therefore no longer enough to give the union its legitimacy. as many of you have said on many occasions, the union must be able to demonstrate its usefulness to its citizens in other ways, in more concrete ways. the union's need is best demonstrated by the effective performance of its fundamental tasks, in particular its legislative work. we can and must do so on the basis of the treaties in force today. europe cannot wait for new rules of decision-making, but must start to improve its performance immediately. the union must show that it is capable of achieving results that affect people's lives and not just of arguing about institutional issues. making it work requires bold decisions by europe's leaders and decision-makers. we cannot just think about this moment and the next election, but we must keep in mind the interests of future generations. that's why we have to make decisions that may be painful now but that will help shape the future. the willingness to challenge national positions and to take care of the european whole is also needed. the union must focus on what is essential and be effective in what is essential. it means activities where the union's action brings added value compared to the member states' actions alone. this added value can be achieved in the areas of welfare, security and freedom. achieving our goals starts with the way we work. transparency is essential citizens need to know how decisions affecting them are made. the increase in political debate in europe is in everyone's interest. your role is also very important. i am pleased that the european council decided to increase the transparency of council meetings. finland will, as the presidency, fully implement the principles adopted by the european council in order to increase the transparency of the council's work. finland also strives to contribute to openness in other ways, in all practical work and activities. we will endeavour to make all relevant information available as soon as possible on our presidency website. sometimes such practical means have a greater impact on actual access to information than political declarations. during its presidency, finland will work towards better regulation, i.e. the quality of legislation and the respect of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. this is not just about cutting the regulations. the european union needs both new legislation and updating existing legislation. in this way, the union actively responds to and responds to changes in the world around it. we support the commission's work here too. as the presidency, we will make a special effort to ensure that the economic, social and environmental implications of legislative proposals are carefully taken into account in decision-making. we also want to speed up the commission's proposals to simplify and modernise the legislation. the council's work is based on the 2006 work programme, which we prepared together with austria. the continuity of work means that cooperation between successive presidencies is of the utmost importance. we have done well with austria and we will continue to work with germany, which will follow us, in an equally positive way. as the presidency, finland commits itself to the good, efficient and impartial management of the union's agenda and all its affairs. the fact that i mention briefly here the issues on which finland intends to place particular emphasis during its presidency does not mean that we will not also do other things well. every sector needs to improve. finland wants to promote the debate on the future of the union. the debate concerns the concrete question of the future of the eu's constitutional treaty and the enlargement of the union. i am pleased that the european council decided in june to move from mere reflection to a more active phase in relation to the treaty. this two-pronged approach is the right one: we will step up action within the framework of the existing treaties while at the same time beginning to consider the future of the constitutional treaty. finland shall enter into consultations during the term of office on the future of the constitutional treaty. these consultations with the member states and the institutions will form the basis of a report to be presented during the first half of 2007, during the german presidency. i am convinced that an agreement negotiated by the member states together is necessary for an enlarged union. in finland, the government submitted a proposal for ratification to the parliament at the beginning of june, and the parliament will discuss the matter during its september session. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the enlargement of the union is one of the key issues of the finnish presidency. i am personally convinced that enlargement has been a success story. enlargement is not only a key instrument for strengthening stability and democracy, it is also one of europe's strategic responses to the challenges of globalisation. recent analyses show that the latest enlargement has clearly benefited both the new and the old member states. the european council held an important debate on the reception capacity of the union in june. i am very pleased that the capacity of the union to receive has not been set as a new criterion for membership. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my point of departure is that the union must continue to be an open community. european countries which meet the criteria for membership must be given the opportunity to become members. the date of accession of romania and bulgaria will be decided during our presidency. the accession negotiations with turkey and croatia will also be taken forward on the basis of progress achieved and the reports from the commission. as the presidency, we will also support the european perspective of the western balkan countries. the year ahead will be crucial in many ways for the future of the western balkans. the process on kosovo's status is likely to be in the process of being resolved in the autumn. as president, we hope that the parties will reach results in the demanding negotiations under the chairmanship of president martti ahtisaari by the end of the year. the competitiveness of the union and its member states, their success in global competition, is a very important area for finland's presidency. we will be making a major contribution to this during our presidency in the various council configurations. the key question is where europe will find the basis for economic growth. finland's answer is that it is found in, among other things, innovation, energy solutions, quality and productivity of work, openness to world trade, immigration and a well-functioning social security system. the main responsibility for competitiveness lies with the member states, which should take a strong ownership of it. the union must also play its part. finland is working towards achieving results in the 7th framework programme for research. the same results are sought with regard to the chemicals regulation, the reach, the services directive, the working time directive and the regulation on international roaming. we want to move forward with the development of a broad innovation policy. we will put forward initiatives, both in the council's legislative work and at the meeting of heads of state in lahti, to create an environment conducive to the creation and effective use of innovation. this is a demand-driven innovation policy. the gulf is a place where heads of state can speed up the decisions that are needed. a broad-based innovation policy requires enhanced joint action and decision-making at union level, including in the fields of standardisation, intellectual property protection and the development of financial markets. it is equally important to promote the mobility of students and researchers, cooperation between universities and the creation of centres of european excellence. i would also like to emphasise the positive impact of competition in an open global economy on the uptake of innovation. europe needs more mobility of its intellectual and material resources. the backbone of innovation policy is the union's internal market and its further development. the obstacles to the effective functioning of the internal market must be removed if the full benefits of economic integration are to be realised. the single market is the backbone of the eu. you mustn't forget this. the services market plays a major role in this and it is very good that the services directive is coming to a conclusion. the role of the european parliament has been crucial. i hope that the final adoption of the directive can take place directly in the second reading of the european parliament. the eu's external relations with regard to energy are also on the agenda of the informal meeting of heads of state in lahore. the european union is also supporting the efforts of the european union to develop a common foreign and security policy. ensuring access to affordable energy is a prerequisite for europe's economic success. all member states are facing challenges related to rising energy prices, security of supply and climate change. energy policy choices are largely national issues. the european union needs common energy policy guidelines and, in particular, a coherent policy in its external energy relations. the finnish presidency will be a forum for strategic debate on how the objectives of energy policy should be reflected in the union's external relations. energy use and the choice of energy sources are inextricably linked to the most serious environmental threat of our time, climate change. in the context of climate policy, a particularly important issue is the promotion of negotiations on the development of the un climate treaty system after 2012. finland, as chair, will seek to promote international discussions that can lead to an ambitious agreement covering all countries with a climate change focus, in line with the eu's objective. a comprehensive framework would not only help to respond to the climate challenge as effectively as possible, but also to safeguard the eu's competitiveness. both topics - energy and climate change - will be strongly featured at summits with third countries during the finnish presidency, including the 10th anniversary eu-asia summit in helsinki. i am well aware that millions of europeans are afraid of global competition and that they are therefore also opposed to many changes. this fear has been expressed, for example, in the context of the services directive. this is a fear that must be taken seriously. i would stress that we should not try to improve competitiveness in europe at any cost and regardless of the consequences. there must be a balance between reforms, social security and environmental sustainability. however, new practices and modern technology often contribute to both economic growth and prosperity and reduce environmental emissions. the preservation of european welfare societies requires improving competitiveness, raising employment rates and improving labour productivity. the results shall be sought in close cooperation with the social partners. we need to find a new balance between flexibility and security. this is why finland is hosting an extraordinary social summit to discuss these issues, just in time for the lahti summit of heads of state. the union's external relations are linked to the economy, since the union's external action is based on its economic strength. the interest and appeal of a business partner gives us leverage. the eu has become a global player with no pause in its external action. the finnish presidency will strengthen the eu's international role and strengthen the coherence of its action. the union has a wide range of instruments at its disposal compared with many other international actors. they must be used in a uniform way, whether in foreign policy, trade, development cooperation or human rights. the union's voice is heard in the world as one only if it is united. we will continue to develop the union's crisis management. the rapid reaction force must be fully operational by early 2007. the coordination of civil and military crisis management will continue. the eu's relations with russia and the northern dimension are the main priorities of the finnish presidency. the western balkans, transatlantic relations and asia are also strongly on the agenda. eu-russia relations go beyond trade and energy to a comprehensive partnership, where we are united by european values and global interests. the aim is to involve russia more closely in democratic european cooperation in the various sectors of society. it requires more interaction between eu countries and russia, including student exchanges, cultural cooperation and the active contribution of civil society. the finnish presidency will discuss the new framework for the eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement, which expires at the end of next year. as regards the northern dimension, we have already made progress a new political framework agreement will be signed in the autumn. the development of the northern dimension is also valuable for other cooperation in the baltic sea. in addition to the above, we are naturally investing in the middle east and other crisis areas of the world. we are very concerned about the situation in the palestinian territories, which is the subject of an important separate debate today. in foreign relations, surprises are more the rule than the exception. finland is also prepared to hold the presidency accountable for any surprises that may come. the finnish presidency will undertake a thorough political assessment of progress in the area of freedom, security and justice. we need concrete action, effective decision-making and uncompromising national implementation of decisions already taken. the tampere summit in 1999 set the tone for an ambitious and democratic development of justice and home affairs. now, in 2006, the evaluation of the hague programme provides an opportunity to actively advance european cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs. citizens expect the european union to take effective action in the fight against international crime, human trafficking and terrorism. the finnish presidency will test the political will of the member states to commit themselves to improving the efficiency of decision-making, particularly in the area of police and criminal justice. the commission's work can be enhanced if the member states are prepared to move to qualified majority voting and to communityisation in this area. we were given a task of investigation in this area by the last european council, together with the commission. i would like to stress that cooperation between the police and the criminal justice sector is not a matter of picking raisins from a bottle. we are not trying to bring the constitutional treaty into force through the kitchen, because the amendments can already be made on the basis of the treaty of nice. finland also wants to strengthen the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition in judicial cooperation. the execution of judgments and decisions of judicial authorities of another member state as such can concretely enhance the effectiveness of investigations into large-scale cross-border crimes and speed up the prosecution of cases. a good example of this is the european arrest warrant, which has reduced the time limit for surrendering suspects from over six months to up to one day. recent events, including in the canary islands and malta, have brought illegal immigration back into the headlines. the union's options will need to be explored in a broad way, including the agreement on common approaches to legal immigration. strengthening border controls is only one, albeit an important part of the solution. the importance of cooperation with countries of origin and transit of illegal immigration cannot be overemphasised. ensure that the common european asylum system is completed by 2010. the union must be able to guarantee protection for those who need it on the basis of uniform procedures and legislation. attention must also be paid to the external dimension of migration issues and to partnership with our neighbours. as i said at the beginning, cooperation between the institutions, at both european and national level, needs to be further developed. i would like to thank you in particular today for this opportunity to present the priorities of the finnish presidency and to discuss with you how to promote them. i look forward to your comments both today and later, both in the plenary and in other contexts. the debate on european development is important, regardless of political differences. the european parliament's group leaders, for example, demonstrated both the will and the ability to advance the european agenda at the citizens' meeting in helsinki at the beginning of june. we in finland are also used to productive political cooperation across party lines. it is also natural at european level. i hope that our cooperation over the next six months will produce the best possible results. i would be happy to be heard by the european parliament at the summits during the finnish term. we live in a time of great challenges. the union must look ahead, boldly embark on reforms and show the political will to develop europe. i believe that in many respects the right answer is more europe, not less. the incoming presidency has already been characterised as a kind of transitional period. it would be a time to deal with the day-to-day and prepare for the time when the conditions would be right for tackling the big questions of our union. but it must be said clearly that even if there is a certain waiting spirit in the european union, the rest of the world around us does not stop. it would be wrong for the future generations of our common europe to turn a blind eye to our historical challenges and wait for better times. that time is right here, right now. (applause) i would like to thank the
president of the commission. mr president, i am delighted that, after the excellent austrian presidency, we can now work in tandem with the finns. in helsinki a few days ago, prime minister vanhanen and i agreed that our two teams should work as one. let us join efforts between the presidency, the commission and parliament. europe needs the clear, dynamic harmony which finland brings. i welcome the presentation by the prime minister, mr vanhanen. he has shown that the next six months present an opportunity to demonstrate what we mean when we talk about a europe of results, to deliver on important dossiers of concern to our citizens, to move towards the next stage in the constitutional question, to steer the discussion on enlargement. in short, to follow the twin-track approach which i outlined to this house last month – an approach that was endorsed by the european council – to move from a period of reflection to a period of engagement. let me pick up just some of the themes raised by prime minister vanhanen. i shall start with a simple, important point concerning enlargement. it is one of the most successful policies of the european union, an extraordinary achievement in exporting freedom and opportunity across our continent. many of us here today have benefited from this policy. we should be proud of our enlargement policy. i was very pleased that the last european council reaffirmed that we will honour existing commitments. however, on enlargement, as on so much of european policy-making, there is a popular debate with which we must engage. i welcome that debate. i want that debate. it is important to show that europe does not enlarge by default, that enlargement is a conscious choice that is of benefit to all, that far from being a negative factor, an enlarged europe is a precondition for a powerful europe, for a europe that really counts in the world. that is why this autumn the commission will report on the enlargement process as a whole, to set up the debate at the december european council. this will include the analysis of the capacity of an enlarged europe to function properly. this will be a serious, rigorous exercise. nothing else will satisfy the public demand for more certainty and confidence. we must take the same serious and correct approach to turkey. i welcome the fact that negotiations are under way. it will be a long road, sometimes a very bumpy one. what matters is that we are open, honest and fair. turkey must fulfil its commitments, just as the european union must fulfil its commitments. turkey’s commitments include respect for the ankara protocol. each presidency brings its own particular expertise to the european union. in finland’s case it also brings a deep knowledge of and cooperation with its neighbours, including russia. i strongly support the emphasis placed by the presidency on the relationship with russia. earlier this week the commission adopted a recommendation for a comprehensive agreement that we hope will bring – because we believe it is in our interests as well as russia’s – a new quality to the european union’s relations with russia, building on the existing partnership and cooperation agreement. we are proposing to move towards a free trade area to be completed once russia accedes to the wto. at the same time, we propose a partnership approach for energy, based on mutual interests and agreed principles. next week prime minister vanhanen and i will travel to st petersburg for the g8 summit to determine, i hope, a new framework for the global energy challenges which require a global response. for energy, as for climate change, we need this global response. we will follow this up in turn at the october and december european summits. it is clear that on russia – as on so many external issues – europe has greater power when it works in a united and coherent way, and i hope the member states will approach this issue precisely in that way. the commission looks forward to the finnish presidency taking forward the negotiations on the next generation of northern dimension partnerships. the ultimate result should be a shared policy with common ownership by all players, including russia. the northern dimension will become a permanent forum on northern issues and concerns. in this context, the commission has taken good note of this parliament’s aspiration to establish a parliamentary forum. the european economy is picking up pace. this is good news and we should build on it. i welcome the finnish presidency’s intention to drive forward the new lisbon strategy and to focus on research, innovation and education – the knowledge triangle. in this area, as well as in others, we must move from reflection to engagement, to real delivery. political support must now be translated into concrete actions which create a more innovative climate in europe. my commission will prepare a short paper on innovation to prepare for the lahti informal summit. we must promote the european research area, including the european institute of technology, which should be a flagship project and symbol of the knowledge-based european economy. we must accelerate the drive to ensure open and interoperable standards and promote those standards worldwide. we must promote effective mechanisms – like venture capital – to finance innovation by european companies, having in mind also small and medium-sized companies. last week the commission adopted proposals for an ambitious programme for increased security and more efficient justice for europe’s citizens in a way that respects and protects their rights. this is a key feature of our europe of results agenda. i share the finnish presidency’s determination to move this dossier forward. the european union will return to tampere for the informal justice and home affairs council in september, to deepen european integration in this crucial area. the case for deeper and more dynamic european action is clear: against those who plot against our values, freedom and democracy; against those who traffic in human beings, especially women and children; against illegal migration and those who exploit people in the workplace. we should not wait for the next tragedy in order to advance european integration in these areas: we must act now to prevent it. we must implement better what already exists. for example, everybody agrees that sexual exploitation of children is a repugnant crime, yet only five countries have transposed the framework directive. everybody agrees on the need to act against terrorism and organised crime, yet several member states have not transposed effectively key legislation, such as the framework decision on terrorism. to achieve our goals, we must improve our procedures. it is not coherent to proclaim the ends – on the fight against crime, terrorism, illegal immigration – but not provide the means. the commission believes the community method, including proper european democratic scrutiny by this parliament, should be spread to police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and legal migration. that is what we said in our citizens’ agenda paper of 10 may. we are therefore now proposing to use the existing treaty articles to make this change. the commission is opening the interinstitutional debate and based on the results of that debate we will present formal proposals. i very much welcome the clear remarks made just now by prime minister vanhanen. we know there are political sensitivities, and we are ready to address those political sensitivities, but our procedures must catch up with reality. any step we take to improve our cooperation in security and justice matters must be matched with an extended protection of the individual citizen’s human and civic rights. this is for us a question of principle. law is the source of strength of the european union, not intergovernmental backroom deals outside parliamentary scrutiny and judicial review. that is why i also welcome the commitment of the finnish presidency to everything associated with the transparency agenda. transparency, subsidiarity, better regulation should not be seen, as sometimes they are seen, as just technical matters; they are political matters. it is the democratic accountability agenda of our union and we, the european commission, stand ready to move forward on all those issues – transparency, better regulation and real subsidiarity – because this is a question of democratic accountability. i have picked out only a few of the priorities of the finnish presidency. there are other priorities we fully share, including matters of immediate concern such as the deadlock in the doha trade round. the last few presidencies have helped the european union resolve internal problems or lay the path towards their resolution. now we need a change of gear from reflection to engagement, to a europe which is looking forwards and outwards. i welcome this. an open europe, a more self confident europe, a forward-looking europe is what we need. let us renew our energies to engage more deeply, more coherently and more effectively with the world around us. by exporting our values, by promoting our interests in the world, we can strengthen our identity and confidence. i look forward to doing just that in the next six months with the finnish presidency and with prime minister vanhanen. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the world is in a football fever, but europe has already won: the world champion will come from the european union, and the four best teams will come from member states of the european union. the president of the commission spoke of self-confidence. (applause from the centre) that is why i say: let us be confident, but not arrogant! what the footballers are teaching us now about peaceful competition is a wonderful thing. this is how it should be in europe and in the world, peaceful competition, fair play. if that is the basis, we will succeed. who better to represent that than finland? mr president, it was a good meeting with you as president of the group of the european people's party in helsinki: effective, professional, transparent, not spectacular, because it is usually the case that those who announce or want something spectacular fail because they cannot deliver it. europe is like a chain. the same is true of the presidencies. we had the austrian presidency. we now have the finnish presidency, then the german, portuguese, slovenian and then the french presidency. every link in this chain must be strong. if we see this continuity, all presidencies will be successful. experience shows that it is not only the presidencies of the so-called big countries that are successful, but very often it is the presidencies of the smaller countries that have been successful. we wish finland every success and stand by you! the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the baltic sea region. we expressly welcome the commission's proposal that there should be a joint declaration by the european council, the commission and parliament. our group proposes that we begin preparations on the substance and organization of the conference under the finnish presidency and we propose that a working party be set up to deal with the preparations at political level. the next presidency must of course be involved, but the work must begin now under the finnish presidency. on 25 march, not only was there to be a summit, which is of course important and to which the german chancellor invited us to berlin, but also something was to be held in rome. the treaties of rome were signed there 50 years ago, and i hear the catholic church is preparing something. (interruption by mr cohn-bendit) i would very much welcome it, mr cohn-bendit, if the greens, with whom we are in peaceful competition for european unity, as well as the business community and the trade unions, would also participate in this, because this is our common europe, which does not belong to just one party family. that's why everyone should be involved. (applause from the centre and the right) the content of mr schulz's speech will be how the greens want to behave. i am always reluctant to give advice and do not want to waste my time answering mr schulz's interlocutory calls. one of the subjects you will be discussing, mr president of the european council, will be relations with russia. we are of course very happy about this, and we also say that we need russia as a solid, stable and hopefully democratic partner. but this policy of hugging and patting on the back must end! we say yes to common interests, including energy supply, but we must also tell russia that human rights must be respected. a few days ago, the lawyer of the industrialist mr. khodorkovsky came to see me. it is not acceptable how this man is treated in russian prisons and this is just one of many examples. we must raise our voices here! (applause from the centre) mr president of the european council, mr lipponen, president of the finnish parliament, announced at the parliamentary conference we had in brussels with the participation of the austrian presidency and the commission that there would also be a parliamentary conference of the european parliament and the national parliaments. we are very much in favour of this because we believe that the national parliaments and the european parliament must work together much more closely. if we do this, if we break down certain prejudices and work together on the europe project, we will succeed. i wish you every success in your presidency on behalf of the epp-ed group. you have us at your side when it comes to our common future in europe and in the world! (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to pay tribute to the blue team, i will begin my speech in italian. i would like to ask you this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. most of my colleagues in italy are today morning not yesterday. you're being a jerk. 'we need more europe', said mr vanhanen in his speech. you have the right! the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. the european union's individual countries are not large or small, nor are they able to meet the economic, ecological and social challenges of today. this is the reason why we must develop the european union further and why we must deepen it. the european union is a global player in the world economy, and it is not only the european union that is the world's largest economy, but also the world's largest trading partner. the european union must also give the framework that this europe needs. we can in this union of 25 bald union of 27 die von ihnen righttigerweise beschriebenen herausforderungen mit dem instrumentarium, das wir haben, nicht lösen. we can in this union of 25 bald union of 27 die von ihnen righttigerweise beschriebenen herausforderungen mit dem instrumentarium, das wir haben, nicht lösen. we can in this union of 25 bald union of 27 die von ihnen righttigerweise beschriebenen herausforderungen mit dem instrumentarium, das we have, nicht lösen. it's not possible! therefore, it is your decision, in the consequence of what you have described, to ratify the constitution, and also symbolically to say: 'we need this instrument', a logical, correct and also consequent decision. (beifall) the european parliament has already made a good start with this and we can support the social democrats very strongly. the commission president, you have said: 'we want to be a team with the finnish presidency'. i'm sorry, but i'm not sure i understand. now, however, mr vanhanen has explicitly said in his speech: 'i am convinced that an enlarging union needs the constitutional treaty that was negotiated by its member states.' the constitution and the constitution are two sides of a coin. now i read in a reuters report i don't know if it's true, but you can explain it to me that after the meeting with mr vanhanen, i said to the team in helsinki, in a press conference: we can also expand on the basis of the nice treaty. perhaps the reuters report is wrong, then you should clarify. i will, if we can get the third pillar back. the deficit, as you have described it, and also as you, mr president of the commission, have brought it as an example of failure to implement the third pillar of security policy and cooperation, must be addressed. the european union has a responsibility to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat organised crime, to develop a coherent immigration policy, a secure asylum policy and a sound border security. but nowhere is the inefficiency greater than in this area, as mr barroso has quite rightly described. we need the klausel-passe! you have a right. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the treaty of nice must be read. it is already provided in it that five years after its entry into force, the transfer from the third pillar to the first pillar shall take place under the condition of unanimity in the council. we also act within the framework of valid contracts. i will make a final remark in this context. the european parliament has been a key player in the debate on the future of the european union. we are also talking about the grundrechtecharta, when we are talking about the verfassung. but then we must also start now, the council and commission presidents to bite, to be more concerned with the populist developments in europe, which we are witnessing in this house every day. we have in the european union between-time governments that is bad enough , which are carried by right-wing populists, which are part of openly racist and xenophobic parties. the european council they do not sit as backbenchers in any parliament, they are active members of the european institutions. i have just given a good example of the debate on the frankism. the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the european parliament, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the european parliament, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the european parliament, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the european parliament, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the european parliament, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the european parliament, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the the french government has not yet responded to the european parliament's request. we are also convinced that more and more governments in the european union are beginning to make populism possible by doing nothing to stop it. this is a serious threat to fundamental freedoms in europe! i ask the president of the council to join me in discussing this subject. democracy is not a matter of outside but of inside. (beifall from links)
mr president, i would ask you to read in the minutes that mr farage has called the president of the european council an undemocrat.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after the austrian presidency, finland is now for the second time holding the presidency of the council from a neutral eu country - or should i say, from a formally neutral eu country, because if i look at the programme of the finnish presidency in the field of foreign policy and especially in the military field, it is continuing exactly as before, and even somewhat more intensified. the eu is to deploy 2,000 troops to the congo to officially secure elections. but we know - as does the german minister for defence - what is really at stake, namely the safeguarding of the economic interests of germany and the european union. and now, as i take it from the plan, sudan is next, this time with nato. the eu is constantly embarking on new military adventures. i think that's fatal. the battle group is to be set up during the finnish presidency of the council - i think that is problematic - and the dead constitutional treaty is unfortunately still being pursued. why don't we just say we're giving him up? i call on you to turn around! i am not saying that we should be united in our efforts to achieve a truly civilised europe. no more tax billions in these militarization projects. the european parliament has a duty to act.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr president of the commission! i think the finnish government has set its priorities correctly. we are in favour of a strengthened common foreign and security policy, including a strengthening of the security profile. we say yes to more competition, yes to improved transparency in eu legislation. we also say yes to a calm debate in the constitutional process, as you may have in mind for your presidency. you can see that we liberals in the european parliament have great confidence in the success of your finnish presidency! but this is all happening against the background of what you said recently in the finnish parliament. there you noted that the union no longer has a common core, but that coalitions are being formed on a case-by-case basis. the overall european interest is behind case-by-case government cooperation. we hope that you will do something for the interests of europe as a whole, for the european core, and thus set an example for the next german presidency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you very much, mr vanhanen. you made it clear in your speech that you want to win over citizens, develop europe and take concrete action now. i congratulate you on that motto. that is a motto for the future which i would like to support fully. the services directive is one of the concrete projects we want to have. they have expressed the wish that we should complete the second reading of the services directive in the autumn. i am confident that we can succeed in this, because the basis for this has been laid by the decision of the council of ministers to adopt and develop the basic demands of the european parliament. i am confident that under the finnish presidency we will be able to reach a common compromise on the services directive. i'd like that very much. this is an expression of the common will to commit ourselves to the community of values for its citizens. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for his excellent report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the president of the commission, mr president of the president of the commission, mr president of the president of the commission, mr president of the president of the commission, mr president of the president of the commission, mr commission, mr president of the president of the president of the president of the commission, mr commission, mr commission, mr president of the president of the president of the president of the president of the commission, mr commission, mr commission, mr commission, mr president of the president of the president of the president of the president of the president of that is what we want to achieve and that is how we can really ensure that citizens say yes to europe in the future. this is the best we can do! the most important thing is the constitution for europe, and it is the best gift you can give yourself for the 100th anniversary of the right to vote in finland! (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! finland is the first presidency of the council since the enlargement of the european union on 1 may 2004 to come from the baltic sea region, which has become a mare nostrum with the enlargement of eight countries. the european union is not a member of the european union, but it is a member of the european union. with your experience, you can develop relationships here that could be extremely constructive, including energy security and other issues. we have high hopes for you on this issue! secondly, under your presidency, at least in principle, a new balance must be found between enlargement and the european union's capacity to welcome new members, in cooperation with the commission. we must give many countries a european perspective, but this cannot always mean full membership. we must find other ways, and both the european council and the commission have stated in the barroso paper that they want to take initiatives on this issue, which are extremely important to us. we shall wait until december and see how far we can go with this discussion. thirdly, history has shown that the european union is only strong where we have a community europe, because only there is it capable of action and of continuity. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. i thank you, mr president-in-office, for your efforts to ratify this constitutional treaty. this corresponds to the position of the subsequent german presidency, so that there should be good cooperation in the development of the german declaration which will be at the end of the german presidency. i also think it is fair to say that this should be the position of all community institutions so that we can have the constitutional treaty in 2009, which still requires a lot of imagination. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals made by the rapporteur, mr von der vring, and i hope that the commission will be able to support the proposals made by the rapporteur. we need not only a europe that works, but also a europe of democracy and transparency. that's why this constitutional treaty is so important!
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know very well, the situation in the palestinian territories has developed in a very dramatic way, particularly in the last week. the abduction of an israeli soldier and the subsequent israeli operation have been the subject of active monitoring by all of us. we have also been concerned about the continuing firing of qassam rockets from gaza into israel. in view of the continuing seriousness of the situation in the region, i should like to concentrate in this first speech in the european parliament on the presentation of the european union's views on the crisis. i should like to start by saying that the finnish foreign minister, mr erkki tuomioja, had a discussion yesterday in helsinki with the israeli foreign minister, mr livni, on the situation in the region. the foreign minister also spoke by telephone with palestinian president abbas and egyptian foreign minister aboul gheit. the eusr otte has also been in the region this week and has been in contact with various parties. the important thing is that the palestinians release the israeli soldier they have kidnapped immediately. the palestinian authority must also put an end to the continuous firing of qassam rockets from gaza into israel. israel, for its part, must end its military operation. the union has a strong position that all actions which are contrary to international law must be abandoned. it must also be stressed that we cannot accept measures which are disproportionate or punish the entire population. the union is particularly concerned about the suffering of civilians. it is important to note that both sides have a duty to protect civilians. we also know that the humanitarian situation in the region has already been difficult in the past and will be further weakened by the destruction of infrastructure such as the power plant in gaza. this has affected not only the supply of electricity but also the water supply. hospitals, for example, are also suffering from the effects of the bombing of the power plant. we also deplore the israeli attacks on the infrastructure of the palestinian authority. in this context, it should be made clear that the european union does not automatically act as a payer when reconstruction begins. we cannot accept the fact that israel has imprisoned a number of ministers and members of the palestinian authority. they must be released or at least guaranteed a fair trial. the palestinian government led by hamas continues to be subject to the same requirements as the quartet has previously put forward for the palestinian government. the palestinian government must recognize the following principles: non-violence, recognition of israel's right to exist and acceptance of existing agreements and obligations. in this context, i would like to refer to the agreement between fatah and hamas on the basis of the so-called prisoner declaration. in a situation where the tensions between fatah and hamas appeared to be escalating in a very threatening way, reaching an agreement on the prisoner declaration was a step in the right direction, even if it does not yet sufficiently meet the conditions of the eu and the quartet. how do we get out of the current crisis? the european union stresses that the crisis can only be resolved through dialogue. in the israeli-palestinian conflict, it was promising that prime minister olmert and palestinian president abbas met about two weeks ago. another promising development was that they decided to meet again in the near future. it is very important that we return to this path of contact and negotiation quickly. only negotiation can lead to a lasting and lasting peace. although the chances of relaunching the peace process seem very slim in the current circumstances, the idea of a two-state model must be kept alive. guns and unilateral action will not bring peace. the european union and finland, as the presidency, are committed to assisting the parties in the pursuit of peace.
member of the commission. mr president, we are all extremely concerned by the events unfolding in the palestinian territories. these are very disturbing times: the insecurity, the inter-factional violence, the qassam rockets, the shellings. the attack by militant palestinian factions in karem shalom and the abduction of the israeli soldier, followed by the israeli military incursion into gaza, signal a very worrying escalation. in its statement last week, the european union strongly condemned these acts, and we have just heard what the president-in-office of the council has said. last week i called on both sides to take a step back, to exercise restraint. i now repeat that call. all sides need to consider their responsibility extremely carefully. all parties must abstain from any actions that are in violation of international law and we must insist that the palestinian leadership do all in its power to end violence and terrorist activities. the european union has called for the immediate and unconditional release of corporal gilad shalit. this kind of act can only make things worse for the palestinian people, as we are seeing. but we must also look to the israelis to act with prudence. we understand their outrage, but diplomacy offers the best chance to address the immediate priority, not the destruction of essential infrastructure, the detention of members of the palestinian legislative council or the shelling of the prime minister’s office. recent events have considerably worsened the situation of the palestinian population, and that is, i must say, a source of both sorrow and deep frustration for us. the damage to gaza’s only power station has deprived hundreds of thousands of palestinians of electricity and could have serious humanitarian consequences. everything must be done to prevent the humanitarian situation from deteriorating further. israel has to understand its responsibilities for the well-being of the palestinian population and an immediate step has to be the restoration of electricity to the palestinian territories. both sides need to step back from the brink before this becomes a crisis that neither can control. we must do all we can to avoid an unacceptable economic and humanitarian situation in the palestinian territories. even before the latest events, we were looking at a 30% fall in income, unemployment at 40% and poverty levels of 67%. but responsible politicians cannot give in to frustration. i visited israel and the palestinian territories only two weeks ago. the principal aim of my visit then was to bring israel and president abbas up to speed with the european council and the quartet decisions on a temporary international mechanism. the mechanism is designed to provide immediate relief to the palestinian people and to ensure that basic services are provided. discussions were positive, but there is no doubt that events in gaza and the west bank have greatly complicated this effort. now, more than ever, there is a need to press ahead with the mechanism to help meet at least the basic needs of ordinary palestinians. a number of donors have indicated their willingness to make funds available through the mechanism. but the needs will be great and funds are limited. the commission has therefore sought the budgetary authority’s approval to transfer funds from the emergency reserve. i am very grateful for the support of the european parliament in this difficult endeavour and i am especially grateful for the many very valuable exchanges of views i was able to have with the committee chairmen and leaders in my discussions with the committee on foreign affairs, at the forefront in setting up this mechanism. it is our collective responsibility as europeans to help the palestinians and to give peace a chance. i look forward to your continued support on that. let us be clear. the mechanism cannot be a panacea for all the difficulties faced in the palestinian territories. donors cannot be a substitute for the responsibilities of the palestinian government, which must take real steps to comply with the quartet’s principles and end the violence that threatens the lives of israelis and palestinians alike. nor can donors be a substitute for the responsibilities of israel under international law, for freeing up movement and access, for releasing palestinian customs and tax revenues, or for the recent damage caused to key civil infrastructure. the events of recent days have undermined a fragile process that has just begun with the meeting of president abbas and prime minister olmert in amman. as my colleague has said, these events come at a time when progress was being made on a national consensus agreement between hamas and fatah, based on the prisoners’ initiative. it remains to be seen whether this tentative agreement for a government of national unity will produce a leadership better able to meet its responsibilities. i have commended president abbas for taking this initiative, but at the same time i have been clear that it is not an end in itself, but only the start of a process. the palestinian government must ultimately commit itself to renouncing violence, to recognising israel and to respecting previous agreements as set out by the quartet. we are faced with a very grave crisis situation in the middle east. we have to work together to de-escalate the tension and to give diplomacy a chance. because in all the chaos and confusion of the current situation, one thing is clear: a negotiated two-state solution is the only way to guarantee the security that ordinary people – israelis and palestinians as well as others – desire.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is one of the debates in which there is a growing lack of expression. we had to find new ways. the commission is developing a high level of ingenuity in how to help the palestinian people in the face of the fact that the new palestinian government does not recognize israel's right to exist and has not renounced violence. in that, you have our full support. but then the other side has to move. of course, the qassam missiles and other things are not acceptable from the israeli point of view. the question is whether such a reaction was necessary, especially now that president abbas was on his way to making a difference with hamas. at least this would have been worth a credibility test. but then there are events that make president abbas lose even more credibility, so that we have increasing difficulty finding contacts. this whole thing is a vicious circle. it's hard to say who was originally wrong and who was right because this circle keeps going. we must make the position of the european union and the quartet clear. the right of the state of israel to exist and a viable palestinian state must be the conditions. both sides in the region must know that they are pursuing a policy which is not only causing dramatic damage to their own peoples but is increasingly putting the entire world community in difficulty and endangering peace as a whole. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must make a decision on this matter as a matter of urgency. i would ask you, commissioner, madam president-in-office, to make sure that the quartet is present on the spot and makes the dangers clear, rather than travelling there separately and doing nothing.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not there was confusion among some colleagues because of the inaccurate translation of our compromise proposal on cabin crew. this concerns amendments nos 20, 22 and 24, paragraph 1. the relevant version is the english one: where relevant, i.e. where appropriate and not when appropriate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i regret that the commission did not speak. the decision we have just taken on nuclear exports is relevant to the forthcoming g8 summit. i expect the commission, as in the debate this morning, to bring up the human rights and environmental situation in the urals around the mayak and chelyabinsk reprocessing plants with president putin on the spot. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. first of all, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr claudio fava, on his excellent interim report. i say interim report because we are only in the first half of our work. i would like to stress and make it clear that no one in our group is against the joint fight against international terrorism. quite the opposite! but we believe that this cannot be done with the same weapons that the terrorists use, but only by means of the rule of law and in accordance with the ethical and moral principles on which our community of values, the european union, is based, which we insist on all over the world and of which we can be proud. it is not possible that people in the territory of the eu or from countries which want to join our community can be kidnapped, flown halfway around the world and tortured in prisons like those in kabul, as has been proved to have happened to the german citizen khaled el-masri! the end justifies the means, and that is what distinguishes us from the bush administration and the cia. if we criticize such incidents, it has nothing - absolutely nothing - to do with anti-americanism, but it is our duty to act as such. we also have to ask the question which the governments of the eu must answer: what is a secret service like the cia allowed to do here, even if it's from a friendly country? how can he do that? the principle of the country of origin cannot apply here! the eu member states and the applicant countries must also make it clear that only legal proceedings can be allowed against a person suspected of being a terrorist. how do the eu countries intend to cooperate with the european parliament and the council of europe? the question must also be put to the fyrom government in skopje, because we do not like to be lied to! i am also pleased that the german foreign minister, frank-walter steinmeier, has confirmed without hesitation that he will be joining our committee. but we expect that of other personalities as well. our task is not to conduct thorough investigations like a prosecutor and to draw up a final statement of evidence with an indictment. our task must be to make clear to the citizens of the european union at the end of our work what we know has actually happened and what political conclusions must be drawn, so that we can continue to stand by our values and principles and to prove that the european union is ready to preserve and guarantee freedom, security and democracy. but some in this house do not seem to have even begun to grasp this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr claudio fava, for his excellent work, and also our chairman, mr carlos coelho, for his work in the committee. in this context, however, i would also like to thank senator dick marty and terry davis for their excellent cooperation with the council of europe and its committee on legal affairs and human rights. i believe that this cooperation between the council of europe and the european parliament is a milestone for future cooperation in defence of citizens' rights. let me begin with a general statement: there are legal ways to deliver prisoners to foreign authorities. the transfers we deal with in this committee don't just involve transporting a suspect from one place to another. the practice we are dealing with is not covered by the relevant legislation, but rather bypasses the principles we understand by the rule of law, i.e. the right to adequate legal representation and due process. nor is this practice compatible with the principle that no one may be extradited or taken to a state where he or she is at risk of being subjected to torture or other inhuman treatment. the majority of the victims of these transfers have been illegally arrested from the start, some have been kidnapped, all have been illegally moved from one country to another. many have disappeared. the victims we have heard in our committee have reported torture and other forms of inhuman treatment. in the end, it can be said that this practice served to outsource torture and to make it more difficult to establish responsibility for human rights violations. many say that it is impossible to determine the exact number of people who were eventually arrested, kidnapped, and taken to other countries. that may be true. it is also true that we have enough cases of human rights violations to consider as established, and the report speaks very clearly about this. the chicago convention allows private flights to be extended to european territory without further approval. the cia took advantage of that and deliberately declared their flights private. many countries, including european union member states, have invoked the chicago convention and allowed the cia to be used. these states have apparently ignored other provisions of this convention which give them the right to inspect such aircraft where there are reasonable grounds to believe that the aircraft has been used for an unlawful purpose. the member states of the european union are bound by various international treaties, in particular - and this is explicitly stated in article 6 - the european convention on human rights. the european court of human rights has repeatedly stressed that every state has a positive duty to intervene, investigate and bring legal action against those responsible when it comes to protection against torture and other inhuman treatment. this has clearly not happened in many member states of the european union. italy has fulfilled this legal obligation in recent days, and for that italy deserves our thanks and our respect. i also expect - and i believe i speak for the majority of this house - that other countries will follow italy's example. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the name of freedom and democracy, the cia has abducted, transported, disappeared, tortured and tortured people. the most recent hearing of khaled el-masri should have horrified the last speaker in this house. but what did our governments do? i didn't say anything. the el-masri case was a canteen talk in skopje. german officials were aware of this, but the german government apparently abandoned mr el-masri to his fate for reasons of state. let me be clear: every government has a duty to protect its citizens from human rights violations by others. however, to do nothing is a flagrant violation of human rights. again and again, evidence is cited. but instead of taking the government to task, they demand "evidence" from the victims. the right-wing corner, but also the conservative ranks of our house, jump on this train. but who is the burden of proof? mr dick marty of the council of europe is quite right that it is the fundamental duty of governments to actively report on all human rights violations committed on their territory or against their citizens. they must prove that they have always behaved correctly and in accordance with the european convention on human rights and the common fundamental values of the union. that is why our committee must continue to work. we must not allow governments to bury their heads in the sand, not my country's government and not the government of the candidate country of macedonia, which has tried to concoct an x for a u!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. respect for human rights, respect for fundamental freedoms to protect citizens and respect for our european legal systems are among the fundamental principles of the european union. the cia committee was and is therefore responsible for examining whether there have been breaches of community law by the member states. unfortunately, this interim report is neither balanced nor complete at this stage. i can accept that the groups in this house have different views on the statements made before the committee. however, it must be a fundamental part of a balanced report to include all statements, including those that do not fit into the preconceived picture. so if mr solana and mr de vries have stated in their respective hearings that they are not aware of any breach of the law by a member state, this is part of the report for the sake of completeness, as is the fact that to date there is no evidence of so-called secret prisons in the european union. the statement made by john bellinger on behalf of the american government must also be included in this report. finally, members of the committee have travelled to washington specifically for this interview. all the points mentioned have not been included in the report because they were not approved by the majority in the committee. this is hardly the task of fact-finding and truth-finding. the legitimate interest in clarifying the allegations in the room must not lead to one-sided evaluation and assessment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the commission will not be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can understand that this is an emotional debate, and it's being conducted emotionally. but i have to say, i'm really appalled by the intellectual deficit of this debate. to accuse all these colleagues of acting out of pure anti-americanism, to accuse others of an ideological barrier that they have in their heads, that is the level of children fighting in the sandbox over their shoe or their bucket. we must overcome this stage if we are to be able to produce a report that is balanced and reasonable. i understand that for political reasons you may not agree with the views expressed in the committee, and i also understand that you may object to others' disagreement. of course, we've only collected evidence here, not hard and fast evidence, because of course no intelligence chief will say, "of course, that's how we did it". we have been kidnapping people illegally. i'm sure some of you wouldn't even know you were being abducted illegally if you put them on a plane, blindfolded them and took them away. it doesn't matter. there is the instrument of an evidentiary process in many legal systems. and then there are the pieces of evidence that are so overwhelming that they almost become evidence. we have reached this situation in some cases. it's not all going to be what some conspiracy theorists have imagined. but the world is not as rosy and colorful as some believe, who claim that it never happened. in this respect, the committee has done valuable work and has at least revealed the tip of an iceberg. because if we are to win the fight against terrorism, we can only do so if we are credible. and we can only be credible if we follow the rules we impose on others. i hope that this committee will continue to work and come to an objective conclusion. i would also like to say directly to my colleagues in the ppe-de group: your colleagues in the council of europe have agreed to mr marty's report, and as i have just heard, it goes even further than the report in this house. i wonder how one can justify not agreeing to this.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important matter in many respects, but unfortunately the council cannot confirm or comment on the recent reports in the media about the transfer of data between the swift system and the us intelligence services. as we all know in this chamber, the council has no means of investigating actions which are contrary to the legislation applicable in this case. such an investigation is the responsibility of the national authorities. in the case of actions contrary to community law, the national authorities and the commission are responsible, subject to the supervision of the national and community courts. the council assumes that the current cooperation between private companies such as swift and the us authorities will be conducted in accordance with the applicable law and respect for fundamental rights. the council, like parliament, is a legislator and as such wishes to draw parliament's attention to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the provision of information on the payer in connection with transfers of funds. this regulation is to be examined by both parliament and the council. once that regulation has been adopted, it shall apply to transfers of funds in any currency sent or received by a payment service provider established in the territory of the community. article 14 of the proposed regulation provides that payment service providers are to respond promptly and thoroughly to requests from the authorities responsible for combating money laundering or terrorist financing in the member state in which they are located concerning the information to be provided on the payer in connection with a transfer of funds and the retention of that information. the council considers that this community instrument, which is based on fundamental rights, strengthens the legislative framework to combat the flows of dirty money through transfers of funds, which can damage the stability and reputation of the financial sector. at the same time, it prevents all types of illegal activities against the community's financial system. the objectives of this regulation cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states and can therefore, by reason of their scale or effects, be better achieved at community level. the adoption of the regulation is therefore urgent. that regulation shall be adopted by means of the co-decision procedure. on 6 december 2005, the council agreed on a general approach to the proposal. following informal meetings between parliament, council and commission representatives, the presidency hopes that a mediation solution for the whole regulation can be adopted soon. we are closely monitoring legislative action to prevent, among other things, illegal and unjustified actions against the community financial system. the council is also examining the commission proposal for a council framework decision on the protection of personal data processed in police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the commission adopted the proposal on 4 october 2005. the objective of this framework decision is to ensure a high level of protection of personal data of european citizens. it requires common provisions to determine the legality and quality of the data processed by the competent authorities of the member states. although the proposal does not directly concern the financial system, it does provide for the protection of personal data and may also be relevant to the subject matter under consideration. the proposal will be examined by the competent council bodies. i believe that we all share the desire to protect the citizens of europe, not only from terrorism but also from all kinds of illegal activities against the european financial system, also by means of community measures and legislation.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, on this very sensitive issue, at the moment the commission has only partial information, which we have already requested to be supplemented as soon as possible, regarding the exact facts as to how the american authorities obtained access to data on financial transactions held by swift. at present, it seems that there was a transfer of financial information between private companies from the eu to the united states. i understand that several authorities in europe, including the european central bank, were informed. i quote from a statement from the american treasury issued on 23 june: ‘swift is overseen by a committee drawn from major central banks, including the united states federal reserve, the bank of england, the european central bank, the bank of japan and the lead overseer, the national bank of belgium. the overseers have been informed about swift’s participation with the treasury and the safeguards and assurances put in place’. i repeat that i was quoting there from a statement of the american treasury. i can assure you that this information, of which i am now aware, was not passed on to the commission previously, because the transfer of such financial information falls within the scope of the data protection directive 95/46/ec. national authorities are primarily responsible for the proper application of the data protection rules. i trust that european member states will take all the necessary action to ensure that their national data protection legislation is properly applied and strictly enforced. i observe that the belgian prime minister has already asked the justice ministry to investigate and that the belgian data protection supervisory commission is being equally active in assessing the circumstances under which this particular transfer has taken place. in any case, the commission will follow the developments very closely and, if necessary, we will make full use of our powers under the treaty. i stress that, at this stage, i do not know whether this would be appropriate, as we have first to learn from the belgian authorities what exactly happened, how and why. as my colleague, mr mccreevy, stated on monday before this parliament, the regulation on information on the payer accompanying transfers of funds, on which you will vote tomorrow, contains the appropriate safeguards on data protection and access by competent authorities to such data. i recalled that the european data protection supervisor provided a positive assessment and did not detect any data protection concerns. i think, therefore, that the swift affair should not delay the regulation on information on the payer accompanying the transfer of funds, the adoption of which is essential to detecting terrorist financing. let me finish by stressing once again my commitment to the fight against terrorism and to the identification of methods used to finance it, acting, of course, within the full rule of law and in accordance with our fundamental rights. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. swift, the society for worldwide international financial telecommunication, has claimed to have shared limited data on international transfers with us authorities on the instructions of the us treasury department. you can read about it on the company's website. the belgian data company's statement further states that it is working with authorities to prevent abuse of the international financial system. the question of whether the searches by us authorities have violated national law is currently being investigated by the belgian government, at least according to press reports. commissioner frattini has just spoken about this. the belgian minister of justice has already opened an investigation into the matter. at least in the first instance, this is the proper area of work for this inquiry, namely the belgian judiciary, which is required to act and investigate under the law in force. i am very much in agreement with what the commissioner has just said and i would like to explain how i assess the state of knowledge, but i have to say that we do not know anything concrete, we are still in the phase where we have to ask questions. we know that there are common rules in the eu for the protection of civil data, and the proposed european law on the handling of private data in law enforcement and counter-terrorism provides - at least to my knowledge - so far only for a regulation on the handling of sensitive data by government authorities. i therefore believe that we should urgently seek to intervene and act early on in european legislation that is still being put in place.
president of the council. we expect, mr president, that the commission's report on the emissions trading system will be available during finland's presidency, and naturally finland will have a good opportunity to bring its own national experience to the table in the debate on this subject. it should also be noted that, as prime minister vanhanen said earlier today, climate change issues will be very central to cooperation with the transatlantic and asian countries during finland's presidency and, hopefully, beyond.
president of the council. the european union fully supports the negotiations on the future status of kosovo, which are currently under way under the chairmanship of the un special envoy martti ahtisaari. the european union calls on all parties to participate constructively in the process of defining kosovo's status and recalls that progress in the implementation of standards in kosovo is crucial to the advancement of this process. the views of the parties are still far apart, but the technical consultations in the status discussions have also been necessary and useful. as the presidency, we wish this process particular success.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. finland is providing a highly qualified negotiator for the kosovo negotiations in the form of president ahtisaari. that's why we're confident. however, there will still be major problems, and the only solution is ultimately independence. i'm sure you will. my question is: do you think it is possible to replace the transitional administration of unmik with a european administration of eumik on the way there, so that the eu becomes more active in the administration of kosovo?
president of the council. mr president, in the course of this process we will always emphasize good and effective cooperation with the united nations. it should be remembered that special envoy ahtisaari is the un's special envoy in the region. it goes without saying that the european union, for its part, is naturally prepared to support the outcome of this process, whatever it may be.
president of the council. mr president, the western balkans will be very prominent in many ways during finland's presidency. firstly, the western balkans are concerned by the process of enlargement of the european union, which is to be the subject of a thorough discussion at the december european council. finland is pleased that reception capacity has not become a new criterion for enlargement but a matter that needs to be given serious attention within the european union. however, i can assure you that the strong role of the western balkans in the european debate will continue during our presidency.
president of the council. mr president, the protection of human and minority rights is one of the main objectives of these status negotiations. it is clear that a long-term interim solution can only be based on the guarantee of the rights and security of all groups. the closer alignment of kosovo with the european union's stabilisation and convergence process will certainly also support the implementation of the standards in many ways.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, hostage situations are increasingly targeting citizens of the european union and sometimes these kidnappings are also linked to terrorist acts. the european union and the united nations have repeatedly condemned the taking of hostages. the demands for ransom from the hostage-takers should be rejected as a matter of principle. ransom payments to hijackers encourage more hijackings and may thus lead to an increase in terrorism. international cooperation, especially within the eu, is very useful in dealing with such cases. the eu member states' actions in hostage crises are guided by the un international convention against the taking of hostages. the convention entered into force on 3 june 1983 and has been ratified by all eu member states. the eu council has dealt with hostage-taking issues, as well as directly between member states. practical responses to hostage situations include, inter alia, joint eu political support and action in a hostage situation, preparation for hostage situations through joint pilot projects and crisis exercises, strengthening of national crisis teams with experts from other member states, and a checklist to identify opportunities for cooperation between member states. in some specific cases, ad hoc cooperation has already been put into practice, but it would be useful to further clarify the basis for such cooperation. in order to be as effective as possible, this cooperation should be informal, voluntary and highly practical. all information must also be treated with the utmost confidentiality and the autonomy of the third country concerned must be respected.
president-in-office of the council. i do not think that is actually a question to the council. however, i would just mention to the honourable member that the fight against trafficking is definitely one of the priorities of this presidency and we will pay attention to the issues raised.
president of the council. as i said in the council statement in the debate this morning, the council considers it very important that both sides commit themselves immediately to measures to trigger this crisis. the european union is supporting the solution to this crisis in many ways, but the key to it is, of course, in the hands of the parties. we're working and hoping that a solution will be found.
we often find that our governments are very poorly informed about the background of hostage-taking. first they're called terrorists, and then it turns out they're just criminal hostage takers with very different backgrounds. i would like to ask you if you would not perhaps like to advocate better integration of intelligence services or better data exchange between intelligence services in the eu, so that the background to hostage-taking is better known and therefore the right response can be made more quickly.
president of the council. mr president, as you know, the european central bank is an independent body whose main objective is price stability. the council of ministers has no influence on interest rate decisions, and the independence of the central bank needs to be safeguarded in order to preserve its ability to perform its functions.
president of the council. mr president, it may not be my strongest area and it is not within the competence of the council to speculate on oil price developments, but certainly the current situation of supply and demand and the direction in which it seems to be heading do not support the assumption that the price will fall to a very low level in the near future.
president of the council. i would like to thank the honourable member for his interest in the procedures followed by the council in answering questions from members of parliament. as minister for european affairs, it is my personal honour to answer your questions during this question time over the next six months. as regards the revision of procedures, i would like to point out that finland, during its presidency, wants to return to the practice of answering questions in the order in which they are referred to the council, and therefore the presidency does not intend to answer them by subject. despite this change, i would like to stress that the general principles for dealing with questions put to the council remain unchanged. the replies to the questionnaire will continue to be given on behalf of the presidency. the presidency is also responsible for providing the european parliament with written replies to questions which have not been dealt with during question time due to lack of time. i've had a lot of questions like that this week. as regards the written questions procedure, i can say that the council is currently studying ways of dealing with the ever-growing number of questions.
president-in-office of the council. i agree that speeding up the procedure for answering is highly important. although the presidency speaks on its own behalf, it has to be and wants to be in line with other council members. that is why it is important to get comments from other member states. however, i am sure that we are capable of improving the current situation. i look forward to cooperating with the european parliament in an efficient way on this issue.
president-in-office of the council. if the european parliament makes such a request, we are certainly ready to consider it. if it relates to the high representative, i think that he also has to agree with the procedure. but the council has not received any such proposals, at least not as far as i know.
president-in-office of the council. i am sure that during the coming six months we will get to know each other very well, so these kinds of recommendations could also be prepared in close cooperation. i – and we, as the presidency – are more than willing to make best use of all the experience and practical arrangements and recommendations that might come up during the presidency. i would also just mention that, personally, i find it a challenging experience to answer these questions.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the countries of south-eastern europe must reform themselves on the way to the european union. they have to adopt standards, they have to cooperate regionally, and that means they have to practice practical reconciliation. they know that, they do it sometimes faster, sometimes slower. but despite all their efforts, they are denied what yugoslavia has always had, namely unhindered access to the european community. the ministers of the interior and the national politicians should imagine for a moment that they or their families would have to live on about 200 euros and spend almost all of that on a visa, a schengen visa and a transit visa. you'd have to stand in line to pay for that, too - sometimes for days, sometimes for weeks. even colleagues from the national parliaments of south-eastern europe have to apply for a visa every time to attend the meetings of the council of europe. more than 70% of young people in serbia, bosnia, macedonia, montenegro, kosovo and albania have never taken a step outside their region or country. we are now opening up our education programs in the european union. how can you do that with such a complicated visa system? how can companies settle down if local workers can only go to the mother country under very difficult conditions, for example to france or england? bosnia and herzegovina, for example, has a crime rate lower than the european union average. and why do we not give people there the opportunity to come to us more easily? russia has better visa requirements than these countries. you wonder why! these countries are in the middle of the eu, and we are genuinely interested in their welfare and prosperous development. we have our own interest in it. bosnia and herzegovina has secured its borders with the help of our european union. the neighbouring countries are doing the same. let us take down the blinders and help to break down these unnecessary and humiliating barriers.
a writer. the commission is not i have been to the countries of the western balkans very often in recent years. the eu's restrictive visa policy is a recurring theme. generations are growing up in this region who have only known western europe as temporary refugees or through television. both are not really appropriate tools for getting to know good examples of democratic societies governed by the rule of law in practice. this experience remains denied to most citizens of south-eastern europe or at least is associated with high barriers, and this must change. i agree with my colleagues on this. we also know that you, commissioner frattini, and your colleague mr rehn, are strongly in favour of this process, but it is rigid and is blocked by a number of member states. we must finally act in the best interests of the eu-25, since any further delay in establishing freedom of movement strengthens the anti-european, nationalist and even anti-democratic groups in these countries. any delay will isolate those whose hopes are in european integration. and it is hampering - as my colleagues have already mentioned - the urgently needed economic development. austria had made the western balkans its top priority, but no new decisions were taken. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. i would like to ask you to take up this matter and to call on your colleagues to be more open about it. do not follow the false argument that restrictive visa policies prevent organised or other crime the opposite is true! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president of the council. mr president, it has been made clear in this debate that parliament hopes that the council and the commission will take this matter up, and that is what has happened. this is a very important matter for us. although mr lax said that people should not be categorised, it is perhaps particularly important to facilitate the movement of young europeans in particular across the continent as quickly as possible. our aim is to have the first contracts signed already this year. the visa flexibility is a rare concrete matter of common concern which can strengthen the rapprochement with the european union in the western balkan countries and is also a means of supporting the stability and development of this region, and it is therefore important that progress is made in this area. however, it must be borne in mind that it is also a matter of controlling the external borders of the union and not merely an expression of political will. but we will take this matter in stride.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament’s rapporteurs, mr daul and mr corbett, for their unrelenting efforts in reaching a compromise. i would like to highlight the very good cooperation that has prevailed between our two institutions, especially in the last ten months. in these difficult and complex negotiations, the commission, as you know, has been a forceful advocate of the european parliament’s reinforced control rights over comitology. tribute also has to be paid in this context to the energy deployed by the uk and austrian presidencies. as a result, the european parliament and the commission have succeeded in convincing even the most reluctant member states to make a major breakthrough in terms of parliamentary control. if the compromise package is endorsed by parliament tomorrow, parliament will have a right of veto on the substance of most implementing measures. this applies of course to implementing measures concerning acts adopted under codecision. we can safely say that a decisive battle has been won in favour of more democratic control. to respond to parliament’s concerns, the commission has made several additional commitments. we will further improve transparency and access to comitology documents. we will make sure that the period for consultation only starts when parliament has received all language versions. we will screen all existing acts adopted under codecision, and, where appropriate, make proposals for adaptation before the end of next year. finally, as stated in the trilateral declaration, we have agreed to adapt 25 codecision instruments as a matter of urgency. the commission will make the corresponding proposals before the end of the year. the two reports by mr corbett were adopted by the committee on constitutional affairs by an extremely large majority, but i wish to say a few words about the sole amendment tabled, in view of your vote tomorrow. this amendment refers to a resolution, a crucial point of which was the systematic adoption of sunset clauses. i believe that this amendment goes in the wrong direction. it undermines the mutual trust that has guided the three institutions during the negotiations. it contradicts the content of the joint declaration, whereby the legislator agrees that the implementing powers should be conferred without time limits. i hope that you will take the commission’s view into consideration when you vote tomorrow. i will limit my introductory remarks to these points. i am keen of course to listen to the honourable members’ comments on this major reform.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not let me first congratulate commissioner frattini on yesterday's football match on behalf of the german side and then turn to the subject rather quickly. what i am going to say today on this subject is by no means meant personally, but is intended to counteract a certain myth-making. we are not debating this subject today because the commission wanted to, nor because the council wanted to - which unfortunately left the chamber before this debate. we are talking about this because there have been decisions in the committees which have to deal with these agreements - and there are great differences in this house - on this. it was mentioned that the british presidency has put this issue on the agenda. this was because - and this is what the comitology is about - certain committees of parliament, such as the economic and monetary affairs committee, were no longer prepared to issue a blank check, to delegate something without having the corresponding control rights. and that is why what is being discussed today is not a gift to parliament, but the minimum that parliament should have in a democratic process. i am surprised at the developments of recent times. commissioner, you said at the beginning that you were in favour of democracy, and then you said that the sunset clause was not entirely appropriate. it is the direct right of parliament to set a time limit for legislation and i think it is intolerable for the commission or the council to make such statements or to try to deprive parliament of this right. i would just like to remind the council that in the context of the draft constitution, it even agreed to a call back by the delegation in the relevant discussions, but it does not want to hear about it today. progress has been made, that is undeniable, and now we must build on that progress. the agreement must be proven in practice. the committees - and i am speaking here of my own - have seen, for example, that the commission has sent parliament a draft for consultation for the first time just before the summer holidays. after the summer holidays, the eight-week deadline had expired, and then it was said: 'we expect your decision in three months.' practice must decide that the agreement is feasible and we do not give up our rights! i would like to ask the commission, and even more the council, that those who are promoting democracy and participation in the third world - and here the foreign ministers are in the lead - should at least apply this standard to the european parliament. that would be a big step forward!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that we as a parliament can now take part in the comitology procedure of the commission. this is a breakthrough and a great success for the negotiators. we thank them for that! the only problem is that the whole thing is a matter of codecision and not of consultation. we still have consultation procedures in the committee on agriculture, and it is precisely now that the commission's approach to increasingly drawing into the competence of the comitology procedure is becoming apparent once again in the organic regulation. but then we have no way of intervening, and that has to change. that's a flaw in this degree. if we have passed the constitutional proposal, the agricultural sector will also have the co-decision procedure. but he's not through yet. i hope that this point will not be tampered with again when we talk about implementation, and that we will then remain in the consultation procedure and have to live with this procedure, which continues to grant the commission rights which are incompatible with a democratic standard.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the european union is one of the safest and most economically strongest regions in the world and is therefore subject to high migratory pressure. steering this flow is one of the tasks of the future in europe. the aim of our european immigration policy must be to control legal migration while at the same time preventing illegal migration. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration. in an eu with largely open internal borders, immigration can and should only be regulated with due regard for the other member states and under shared responsibility. this is something that our colleague patrick gaubert has made clear in his report. support for integration efforts is another important element of a meaningful and coherent migration policy, as the report by mr lambrinidis shows. however, the commission has pointed out in its - i must say - excellent paper that the european union can only create the conditions for this. one thing is clear: failed integration not only frustrates immigrants, but also significantly reduces acceptance of immigration in the host society. as desirable as a well-thought-out migration policy is, we must help the border regions of europe today and immediately. the images of malta, the canary islands, lampedusa, ceuta and melilla are of concern to us all. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the medium-term solutions can only be found through joint efforts in different policy areas, such as domestic and foreign policy and development cooperation. cooperation with and support for countries of transit and origin is part of the solution. we, the home affairs ministers, are prepared to cooperate.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission is not i would like to thank mrs carlotti very warmly for her excellent report, which i fully support. the phenomenon of migration is as old as mankind itself. for as long as we can remember, we have been searching for a home, for security and peace. some people leave their homes voluntarily. but most of them are women, men and children fleeing violence, hunger, poverty and persecution. poverty is an overwhelming engine. we can build walls around europe, but that will not stop people from seeking a better life far from home. according to the united nations, there are about 191 million migrants on this planet. half of them are women. female migrants and refugees live with a tremendous risk of becoming victims of sexual exploitation and violence. the links between migration and trafficking in human beings must be examined in this context, in particular from a gender perspective. in calling for a guarantee fund for micro-projects for migrants, gender-specific projects must be given special attention. i ask myself: how can we be proud of a european union in which women who have fled poverty and violence from their homes are victims of discrimination and exploitation? migrants make an enormous contribution to the development of their home countries. 150 billion euros are transferred through banks every year. this is three times the amount of development aid paid out worldwide. in addition, another 300 billion euros will be invested in other ways. in this respect, i am particularly calling for greater transparency and assistance for financial transfers to the countries of origin. the united nations is to hold its first high-level dialogue on migration and development in september. the european parliament should send a delegation to show that we are ashamed of this silent crisis of human rights - as kofi annan called it - and that we want to stand up for a fairer situation for migrants and refugees.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are always two perspectives on migration. the first is the libertarian perspective, which focuses on human rights and the millennium development goals. on the other hand, the perspective of the home ministers is predominant, who tend to see an external threat. the eu debate is unfortunately dominated by commissioner frattini and the home affairs ministers in the face of the growing and current migration dramas. border security and intervention forces are part of that picture. on the other hand, your very good report, mrs carlotti, analyses the causes and importance of migration in the 21st century in much greater depth and also proposes a whole series of very useful measures, which i cannot, however, reflect on in the space of two minutes. but their call for controlled migration must not mean that the eu will in future turn lampedusa into ellis island, or perhaps even worse, that it will be a matter of eu-combined refugee and recruitment camps in the libyan desert, and thus outside eu legal norms. i am also, of course, missing proposals for solutions to the situation of migrants living outside the official legal status in the eu. the central theme of all migration policy remains the growing economic and social disparity between the european union and the impoverished regions of africa, and the eu itself contributes to this impoverishment by competing for leadership in the global economy. the report on fair trade, which was debated in parliament afterwards, is a serious matter if you want to reduce economic migration. combat europe's contribution to the migration of war refugees through arms exports and reduce the emissions of europe and its trading partners if you want to reduce migration, mainly caused by climate change and the spread of deserts!
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i naturally agree with most of the comments and considerations that have been made. i would simply like to point out a number of points in the short time available to me which will enable me to define my position on a number of subjects and proposals in a fairly clear way. first of all, i would like to reassure mr van den berg, in relation to his extremely important question, on the need to distinguish clearly between expenditure on security or security-related expenditure and development-related expenditure. it is obvious that there can be no question of using development funds to finance security measures: it is not the responsibility of the development budget to finance these measures. the commission can assure you of that. the second element, which i think is important, is the famous question of the brain drain. i would like, as commissioner for development, to make sure that my commitment to this issue is not in doubt. i am opposed to policies in some of our member states which are putting in place genuine appeals, genuine temptations for the chosen immigration. i believe that the immigration of choice is a cynical conception of development and i cannot accept it! i therefore warn against suggestions, ideas, which revolve around the notion of a 'green card'. i think it is very dangerous to play with notions which obviously fit into the logic of this 'chosen immigration'. i do not like this approach either, and i think it is good to be clear on this point. i must say, mrs aubert, that i very much appreciated your call for investment in public policies. you are talking about public policies in the european union, but it is above all the public policies of the partner countries, the public policies of the developing countries, that need to be addressed. it's one of my obsessions because it's the very basis of reconstruction and development. it is extremely difficult to encourage citizens of developing countries who live without prospects, who feel they have no prospects, who live without access to basic services that any normal society should provide, to stay at home and contribute to the development of their countries. so everything that revolves around the ability of states to provide basic services: access to education, access to health, access to administration, access to justice, access to culture, access to basic goods, must be part, fundamentally, of our development strategies and therein lie perhaps the ultimate responses to the phenomenon of immigration. it is a question of developing the royal functions which are so dear to those who, like myself, believe in the primacy of the secular character of the state. i think it's important. i'm going to go with you. i welcome all the speeches, although i cannot name all the speakers, and i fully agree with mr kulakowski who emphasizes the extremely close links between migration and development. the real answer to migration is development and nothing else! it is not the closing of borders, it is not the deportation, it is not "chosen immigration": the real answer obviously lies in development projects that aim to strengthen, improve or rebuild states. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank him for his work in this area. finally, i would like to say to mr dillen that his quotation of mr rocard seems to me to be totally out of context: it is probably true that europe cannot absorb all the misery in the world, yet! but i'd like to tell him that the rich world could do it easily! and now, no excuses today. it is all a matter of political will, mr dillen. but i know you don't have much in this field.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today.
the next item is the report by mr frithjof schmidt, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on fair trade and development (2005/2245 (ini)) (a6-0207/2006).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are responding as a parliament with the report on fair trade and development to the remarkable economic and political success story of fair trade. we have fair trade growth rates in europe of 20% on average in recent years, with an increasing trend. in some countries we have market shares - for example, in the uk for coffee - of up to 20%. all this shows the success of a civil society initiative under market conditions, which has so far been able to do without much state support and promotion. at the same time, this is also a direct success in the fight against poverty, because fair prices guarantee a fair income. and it is absolutely crucial for the social and societal development of the countries of the south that the producers in these countries have a fair income. at the same time, it demonstrates the high level of awareness and interest of european consumers in international social responsibility in trade and in high product quality. so this is also a matter of protecting consumer interests. fair prices, fair working and production conditions, respect for environmental standards, which benefits the quality of life of producers in the south and consumers in the north alike. there was a great deal of agreement in the development committee, and i was very pleased to see that. i would therefore like to express my sincere thanks to all my colleagues on the committee on development, the shadow rapporteurs and the coordinators for their constructive discussions. the report was adopted unanimously by the development committee. this was preceded by an intensive exchange with the fair trade movement and many associations on fair trade issues. we have worked together in the committee and proposed criteria which products bearing the fair trade label must meet in order to avoid misleading consumers. the commission is therefore invited in this report to present a fair trade recommendation. it is a matter of promoting a political and economic concept, not of promoting a brand. it is not a question of a detailed regulation for all of europe, a fair trade law for all of europe. we do not want and cannot over-regulate this young and successful market and thereby potentially hinder it. but it is a question of defining criteria which form the substance of the concept of 'fair trade'. the key criteria proposed in the report include, among others, the existence of price guarantees for producers, information for consumers on the price producers set, i.e. transparency, compliance with the core conventions of the international labour organisation on occupational safety and health and child labour in production, compliance with environmental standards, support for production and market access by producer organisations and monitoring of compliance with these criteria. it would be important to include these points in the commission's recommendation. i would also like to express my gratitude to the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we had a very constructive exchange. i would like to make a personal comment, commissioner mandelson, i know that you like to eat chocolate and i have often seen that you prefer fair trade chocolate from oxfam. those are two preferences we both share. so i know from your consumption habits that you're open to the subject. i would like to make a specific appeal to you once again: in the aid for trade programme, which we are now discussing at the wto, create a sector for aid for fair trade! if we could just put 10% of the funding in this area into the fair trade sector, that would be a huge blowback to this good idea. help to ensure that fairly traded products are given preferential treatment in public tenders and give life to article 23 of the cotonou agreement, which states that fair trade is to be an important element in cooperation with the acp states and that it should be supported. we need a well-coordinated fair trade policy of the european union. i hope that parliament will take an important step in this direction today, and it is then up to the commission to take an important second step. we need that recommendation, commissioner mandelson!
member of the commission. madam president, this has been an important and illuminating debate that will send a very clear message to citizens across europe who want to put trade more effectively at the service of development. just because fair trade schemes are not a panacea, that does not mean to say that we should fail to support them. just because they are not a total solution, that should not blind us to the fact that they make a very important contribution to the overall solution that we want to see in putting trade at the service of development, to enable us to tackle poverty in the world. that is why this report and debate enable us to take a stand and deliver a message, not least because there is growing public interest and concern. i thought mr karim’s speech in particular illustrated the growth of activity, public opinion and consciousness. we as politicians need to express and reflect that opinion and find ways for it to grow. for all those reasons, because consumers are becoming increasingly aware and want to make an informed choice, that translates into pressure on mainstream operators, producers and traders to raise their game in order to match higher public expectations and standards. that then also converts into pressure on governments to act to help raise those standards and to increase consumer awareness and information. so we have a ‘virtuous’ circle here, to which we should be contributing. of course, what works in the private context and what works for an individual consumer choice does not automatically or neatly convert into a prescribed public policy. that is obvious. nor is it the case that one particular fair trade scheme or fair trade label gives that scheme or that label an exclusive right to endorsement. there are other organisations and ngos, such as the rainforest alliance, which deliver many of the same environmental and social benefits by working in collaboration with mainstream companies. the key policy challenge is to get the most out of all these efforts, not to identify some in order to discriminate, unwittingly and unintentionally, against others. i would like to re-commit the commission to working with ngos in this area and we welcome parliament’s support. there is broader work being led by mr michel on commodity supply change, through which we are planning to support the creation of a web portal to serve as a clearing-house of information about consumer assurance schemes of all kinds. there are other ideas and proposals that i want to take back to the commission and to consider with my colleagues. we need to establish good models that provide for higher standards. that is what we are jointly committed to and i look forward to continuing this work with parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today.
the next item is the request for an oral reply to the commission by mr enrique barón crespo, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the outcome of the wto meeting in geneva at the end of april and prospects (0-0036/2006/rev.1 b6-0314/2006).
member of the commission. madam president, between 29 june and 1 july, mariann fischer boel and i attended ministerial meetings in geneva on the doha round of trade talks. we also met and remained in contact with the meps who were present in geneva during those days. i would like to thank the honourable members of this house for their effort and for their commitment. it is much appreciated by the commission. the ministerial meetings did not find agreement on the main parameters for reductions in tariffs and subsidies, in agriculture and industrial goods, the so-called modalities of the agreement which are necessary to move to the final stage in the talks. we met several times with the ministers from the group of six, that is ourselves in europe, the united states, brazil, india, japan and australia. we also met in the green room format of 30 ministers and in the trade negotiations committee, which brings together the entire wto membership. there was no shortage of ministerial meetings and encounters, but the encounters were frankly better than the quality of the negotiations that took place within those encounters. we went into the discussions stressing the eu’s agreement with a principle expressed by pascal lamy beforehand, that the landing zone for an agreement would require effective real cuts in farm subsidies by all and real cuts in both agricultural and non-agricultural market access – real cuts in tariffs. we then specified that to capture such a basis for agreement we would on our side be prepared to move towards and close to the level of average cuts in farm tariffs proposed for developed countries by the g20, provided that others moved in concert, with a similar level of ambition in other areas of the negotiation. we made it clear to our partners that we would not be prepared to meet every g20 demand, in particular on the structure of the cuts. we pushed hard to establish a clear correspondence between the effort that we would make in agricultural market access and the effort that the united states in turn would have to make in the reduction of domestic subsidies close to the g20 levels of average cut by us, to be matched by close to g20 reductions of trade-distorting subsidies by the us. the united states was the only major player to refuse to consider moving on this basis and declined to signal any room for further movement within this landing zone. indeed, they demanded further significant moves by others in order only to sustain their present offer, which all others regard as insufficient. we also made it clear that, if a negotiating landing zone was to be identified in agriculture, we would only take our position in this pillar to the limit of our flexibility if we got a fair result in non-agricultural market access, requiring real cuts in developed and advanced developing countries’ tariffs. that is economically doable and, i would argue, desirable for these developing countries and politically essential for us and for other developed countries. the united states’ unreadiness to engage stopped developing countries from making any move or showing any flexibility of their own. the conclusions of the meeting therefore focused on the political handling of our failure to reach a breakthrough. all members reaffirmed a willingness to reach agreement by this summer. in this context g6 members first, subsequently backed by the broader membership in the trade negotiations committee, asked the director-general, pascal lamy, to intensify consultations and act as a catalyst for generating the basis for an agreement in the coming few weeks. he has not been asked to author a final agreement or provide a dunkel-type text, like the previous director-general at the end of the uruguay round, but instead to use his good offices to act as a go-between for a final agreement to emerge. that will require very active engagement by us with him and with the main players in the next ten days to two weeks. depending on progress made, it is likely that ministers will need to meet in a similar format towards or at the end of july to take the key decisions on modalities as well as to confirm progress made in the other key areas of the round, i.e. services, rules and the development package. the possibility of a meeting of heads of state and government in some formation or another to take forward the negotiations around the time of the g8 meeting in ten days is not ruled out. there is a lot at stake here and we shall have to work very hard and very fast in the coming days and weeks. failure of the dda would have severe consequences, not least for the developing countries. this is an opportunity that will not repeat itself to open markets further, to reduce subsidies, to strengthen world trade rules and to make a real contribution to growth in the poorest countries in the world. this is why these multilateral negotiations continue to be the eu’s top trade priority. no number of bilateral deals would have the same widespread effects or benefits. this being said, our trade agenda goes beyond achieving a successful doha deal. in the months ahead, the commission will define its commitment to boosting our competitive performance at home and abroad and this will be set out after the summer in an overarching commission communication on the external aspects of europe’s competitiveness. this will examine how future trade policy can contribute to our internal competitiveness policies and what the priority tasks are for us to build new and secure global markets for our investment and trade. this will include a new strategic approach to market access, including non-tariff barriers, the consideration of new bilateral and regional policy approaches and the examination of our political and economic ties with china. this is not, however, an alternative to the dda: it is an extension of a successfully concluded end to this round. our immediate priority remains, therefore, to bring about the necessary political engagement by all governments to negotiate a balanced and ambitious end to the dda. we will, of course, take a closer look at the social dimension of globalisation. modern social systems and a better quality of life are not optional extras: they are an integral part of a formula to deliver a lasting political response to globalisation and it is this goal, above all, that remains at the heart of my mandate.
i ask the colleagues to reduce the noise level slowly. i'm just saying, we're going to interrupt. we have a lot of votes, so i ask for your understanding. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.) it will be continued at 3 p.m.)
chairman of the afet committee. the commission is not i would like to make one important point as a result of the negotiations, and if there is no objection, i would like to put it on the record here. the commission and the council agreed that these three instruments will be reviewed before the 2009 european elections. the aim of this review is to preserve the full rights of parliament including the right of co-decision in order to allow for a quick, practical and flexible management, to ensure parliament's control possibilities, but also to ensure parliament's influence in a project totalling eur 43 billion in this financial period including the development instrument. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the commission, the commissioner and her staff for their cooperation. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i should like to thank mr udo bullmann and mr lauk of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, who have worked very well and fruitfully with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on this report. i would also like to thank the council and the commission for their cooperation. i would also like to point out once again on behalf of my group that, despite the content of this report, we will abstain on it for the following reason: the subject we are dealing with is very closely related to the swift discussion that is currently taking place. in particular, given the fact that many people are concerned about interference with fundamental rights, about programmes that are not communicated to the public, i would have thought it politically correct that we wait for the swift investigation. i shall therefore recommend to my group that we abstain. i support my colleagues lauk and bullmann on this report and thank the two groups for their good cooperation. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. on behalf of the socialist group, i would also like to thank mr alvaro and mr lauk for their good cooperation. we have reached a consensus on how to create an appropriate legal basis. but as far as the european union is concerned, we believe that the best thing to do is to make laws that everyone has to abide by and that are transparent to all citizens. we shall vote on this today. it's just that little element that separates us. i just want a technically clean procedure. we have a certain connection with the corbett report as it has just been adopted. the corbett report adopted a proposal from mr radwan which should have only a technical effect on the way we are voting now. this does not change the result, but the amendments relating to comitology have a negative in all the voting lists, which means that we are in agreement on the matter. they should not be obsolete, but should be voted on. i shall now say which amendments they are. i ask you to put it to the vote, but all the groups that have dealt with it have one negative. but we need a clean procedure to bring comitology and the corbett report into line with the piece of legislation we are adopting at the moment. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'll put it to a vote. but the political compromise is that they're voted down by one. that is what the rapporteurs have agreed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the original text provides for a translation into all languages, but amendment no 1 would like to reduce this to english and french. my compromise proposal is: translation into the language of the eu countries concerned by the investigations. i think it is only fair, not only in this house but also vis-à-vis other committees of inquiry in other parliaments, for example, that we deal with this accordingly. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in my report we have made an important proposal to combat vat fraud within the european union. the european taxpayer is cheated of some eur 60 billion annually by vat evasion. i believe that this report is an important step forward in the fight against this fraud. the reversed charge procedure is proposed. we are going down a path that is also feasible for nation states. we'll have to talk about that. but now the council and the commission are in the driver's seat, after parliament has taken this step very unanimously - for which i thank you.
in writing. the alde group unfortunately feels compelled to abstain from voting on the final vote on this report. alde's request to postpone the vote not having been granted, we feel adoption of this report is premature as long as the question marks over the recent swift scandal have not been resolved. the legislative proposal at hand must be adopted on the basis of an international agreement (fatf), to which both the eu and the usa are signatories. the position of the usa must be clarified before the eu should proceed to fulfilling its part of the agreement. clarification by the ecb and the national central banks is equally precondition for adoption. in view of growing concerns about civil rights and protection of personal data of eu citizens, alde feels further assurances are needed in this area. we note that in recent years a host of security measures has been taken, whereas measures to strengthen civil rights and privacy protection have been stalled, and decision making in this area largely takes place without any meaningful parliamentary scrutiny or judicial review. the case of swift casts doubts on the adequacy of data protection instruments in the eu. a fundamental debate must be held first.
in writing. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the liberal democrats voted against the resolution on the economic and social consequences of corporate restructuring in europe. we believe that in europe's market economies, business decisions about production facilities should be made free of political pressure. in our common market, competition - also between regions - is crucial to the further development of the european business landscape and its self-cleaning. political pressure ultimately prevents the market from functioning and should therefore not be used to dissuade firms from their chosen path.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate commissioner mandelson and his staff on the success of the negotiations in recent weeks. we have finally succeeded in handing over black peter to the united states. the european union has finally escaped from its role as the supposed blocker. it's obvious to everyone that the others are in charge now. on the positive side, the negotiating partners left the weekend rather calmly, rather than loudly at each other, as they did after hong kong. this gives hope for the coming weeks. it was also unrealistic to expect a result or a conclusion by the end of june. however, the following points will be important in the coming weeks: first, our economy needs real market opening, especially in the emerging markets. secondly, there must be no unilateral concessions in the agricultural sector. thirdly, there must be no hasty political deals in the coming weeks. fourthly, a bad outcome would be worse than no outcome at all, because it would be a disaster for our economies if we offered a wide-ranging reduction in tariffs and subsidies in the agricultural sector or in nama without getting corresponding real improvements in market access for industrial goods. fifthly, it is essential that the european representatives address the doha round at the g8 summit and make the issue a top priority. it is important for all concerned that this round does not fail but can lead to welfare gains for all wto members through clear and unambiguous results. in this spirit, i wish all the eu negotiators good luck, fortitude, good luck and success in the weeks ahead.
a writer. the commission is not i think it's worth looking back at a little bit of history in the case of somalia. the west has been conducting all kinds of bad policies towards somalia. we remember the intervention of 1993, which ended in failure. germany had stationed troops there to support indian troops, but they never arrived. we have to face the fact that once the military was withdrawn, there was little interest in somalia. now there is a new constellation in somalia. the coalition, whose members are described as islamists, has been gaining ground militarily bit by bit, and those forces which, according to press reports, were supported by the united states, namely the warlords' alliance, have been pushed back further and further. it is obvious that the us government in particular has bet on the wrong horse here and is now facing the shards of its own policy. the question now is: what can the european union do in this constellation? it would be completely wrong to support one of the opponents of the conflict on the ground now. first of all, it must be pointed out that at the moment ethiopia and eritrea in particular are obviously very interested in resolving their conflict in the territory of somalia. therefore, it is very important that the european union make it clear to eritrea and ethiopia diplomatically: this cannot be the case. i do not see any point in foreign military intervention at the moment. there are certain regions within somalia that are stable, such as somaliland. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you've supported some group that has done exactly what you wanted to avoid. the european union must therefore be called upon to take a diplomatic approach.
a writer. the commission is not the press is now talking about mauritania as a model of democracy for africa. the eu has officially resumed relations with mauritania. but is the situation really that good? not at all! the referendum on a new constitution in mauritania is welcome, and in particular the fact that it limits the powers of the president. however, according to the information available, slavery still exists in mauritania. this is completely unacceptable. the eu must also do something about this. the european union has also made a special effort to help the refugees in mauritania. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the eu is increasingly militarizing its defence of refugees. the frontex agency is also an example of this. there was a major military exercise in cape verde recently, which was originally supposed to take place in mauritania. it was not held in mauritania because france objected. i've been looking at the scenario for this maneuver. it's got something to do with refugee protection. the unhcr now points out that, for example, in lampedusa, where refugees from mauritania live, there is no longer an individual assessment of refugee status. the principle of safe third countries is also now being introduced. this is gradually leading to the fact that refugees are no longer able to enter the european union. so the position must be that there is help for people in need. the eu cannot do what it is doing now, which is to set up a veritable deportation machine. there must also be help for further democratization in mauritania.
a writer. the commission is not the community has a long tradition of cooperation with the countries of the mediterranean, and the community has a long tradition of cooperation with the countries of the mediterranean. it has always been a thriving cultural landscape, and much of it is still felt there today. the worst thing is that we europeans have completely lost sight of some of this country. i hope that now more attention will be paid to mauritania, not only because of the refugee situation, which is indeed difficult, or because of the withdrawal of the fisheries agreement. i believe this country deserves our full support. the referendum was a strong signal for democratic development in this country, which is an important bridge between the mediterranean and west africa and which has enough difficulty in coping with natural disasters and challenges, and has developed an amazing innovative power, particularly in the field of agriculture. i also share the view that this country must be very careful about its nature reserve and its marine resources. but that must not mean that we want to plunder the sea treasures there. this country depends on its marine resources. but it is also dependent on the extraction of certain raw materials that are found there and that represent almost its only source of income. we must therefore pursue a very careful policy here, one which strengthens this country in its capacity to help itself, which takes it out of the situation of a country which is often very much exploited and which, under new democratic guises, restores to it its proud and ancient independent tradition. the conditions for this are the limitation of the president's power, the improvement of the voter and resident registers and the holding of genuinely democratic elections which equally include the entire population of this country.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not when you hear about another coup in africa, you think, well, now one autocrat replaces another and continues to exploit the country. fortunately, things seem to be different here in mauritania after the coup of august 3, 2005. not only was a timetable drawn up - after the coup, the constitutional referendum was held in june and now the elections are likely to be held in november - but everything was done in agreement with all the political actors, with the military council, with the transitional government and also with the institutions set up, such as the independent electoral commission. i think that's remarkable. we have also been able to verify this during a joint acp-eu delegation visit with our african colleagues. this is also a good example of how problems and conflicts between the north and the south can be viewed together. now that we have completed the article 96 procedure with mauritania, i hope we can resume full acceptance of the aid. but we must also ensure that the revenue from the oil reserves exploited by the contract with an australian company is also reflected in the country's budget on the revenue side, so that the resources the country has can really be put at the disposal of the people. the key words have been mentioned: there are refugees who have to return. there are others who have to rebuild their economic activities in different areas, and i hope that together we can continue to guide this country along its path. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
a writer. the commission is not not everyone in the world has access to the various media. the internet is often the only way for oppositionists to make their positions public. this is very well expressed in recital c of this resolution. but we would have to ask, of course, why this is so. it also has a lot to do with media concentration. for example, many people are unable to access television or newspapers at all. the resolution criticises internet censorship in certain countries. that is quite true, but what is happening here is what happens very often: we are pointing the finger at others and not looking at the situation in the european union itself. internet censorship is not good anywhere, not even in the countries of the european union. some examples are: the german chaos computer club has been subject to repeated repression in recent years, and there are, for example, sects such as scientology, which have caused the blocking of sites that have been critical of them through legal proceedings. the two main topics that are being raised at the meeting are child pornography and right-wing extremism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat child pornography, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. we must deal politically with right-wing extremism, as we did with what mr giertych said here a few days ago. it is also very important to point out, in relation to the internet, how search engines are now exploiting their power and how certain content is no longer found by these search engines. little by little, there is a commercialisation, so that only certain paid content is available on the internet. we must be clear: internet censorship must not take place in the european union as a whole! this also means that the commission must take action in this area so that this censorship no longer exists in the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is the last item, both for somalia and for mauritania. i ask that in our resolutions, when they concern africa, we always include the pan-african parliament in the list of addressees.
mr president, what has just been done in somalia should be done in mauritania.
the next item is the report by mrs karin riis-jørgensen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on the taxation of motor vehicles (com (2005) 0261 - c6-0272/2005 - 2005/0130 - cns)) (a6-0240/2006).
member of the commission. madam president, honourable members of parliament, i am pleased to have the opportunity to present to you, on behalf of the european commission, the proposal on passenger car related taxes. once adopted it will have a direct impact on about 15 million new passenger cars presented for registration in the eu each year and, to a certain extent, on more than 200 million used passenger cars circulating on the roads of the community. the proposal is designed to benefit the internal market, the citizens, the car industry and the environment. first of all, the proposal contains a number of measures needing to be taken at community level in order to improve the functioning of the internal market, mainly by abolishing registration taxes – which currently involve unnecessary cost and administrative burdens, the lack of transparency and legal uncertainty for citizens. the proposed community measures are furthermore aimed at avoiding double payment of car-related taxes, when a car registered in a member state is exported or permanently moved for registration to another member state. registration taxes also involve high costs and reduced competitiveness for the car industry and result in the fragmentation of the car market. the proposal also promotes sustainability by implementing fiscal measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from passenger cars, as it establishes a more direct relationship between taxation levels and carbon dioxide emissions. it is important to mention that the application of the proposed measure is budget neutral: the gradual abolition of registration tax and its replacement by an annual circulation tax does not involve revenue losses for the national budgets, nor does it increase the total tax burden for citizens. the proposal takes a minimalist approach to car taxation and addresses only those issues that can best be dealt with at community level. it only seeks to establish the principle and structure of passenger car related taxes; it does not seek to harmonise tax rates, which will continue to remain the responsibility of the member states. it does not introduce new car taxes, but instead provides for the gradual abolition of registration taxes in the 16 member states currently applying such taxes, as well as for their gradual replacement by an annual circulation tax. the proposal has been discussed only once in the council so far, and the reaction of the member states has been mixed. strong support from the european parliament can maintain the momentum and help the council reach a unanimous decision. i want to emphasise that the proposed measures would make passenger car taxation citizen-friendly, car-industry-friendly and environment-friendly.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i was going to thank the rapporteur, but she is not here yet, so we will catch up. she has presented a good draft report. we voted on it controversially on certain points. the report adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs contains a contradiction in one point, namely article 4. we have adopted two different, mutually exclusive approaches, and our group therefore wishes to make it clear once again that we want to base the assessment of future motor vehicle taxes strictly on co2 emissions. as mr wiersma said earlier, energy efficiency is of course also an issue. but if you try to regulate all the things that are possible with tax policy, you will fail in the end. our line is quite clear: we want a strict approach to co2 emissions, regardless of the technology used, the consumption and the size of the car, so that it is purely environmentally friendly. if we were to use this instrument to start an action against, say, larger cars, we would be wrong, because it is the larger models, the more expensive cars, that bring about the technological progress in car manufacture, where important safety and environmental measures are first enforced, because in these more expensive cars a new technology can be better developed. so instead of defaming the larger cars, we should be strictly guided by our common objective of reaching 120 mg/km by 2010. the project is difficult enough; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's transport policy. we need a certain degree of flexibility so that the common objective of renewing the car fleet does not lead to discrimination in the european internal market. we therefore also believe - and this has been documented in a decision of the committee - that the commission should also present a study by 31 december 2006 on the weighting of possible factors other than co2 that might be appropriate to compensate for this. but we don't want to reduce co2 by including all the pollutants that are already there. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have tabled an amendment, namely amendment no 40, which would give member states the possibility of treating vintage cars with a minimum registration period of 20 years separately. these vintage cars tend to have relatively high emissions because they are based on old technology. however, their share of the total market is so small that we can handle it in the way that is already done in several member states. as for the registration tax, i believe that it should be abolished after a certain transitional period, because it is an obstacle to the european internal market. we should therefore agree to let this registration tax run out in such a way that both the fiscal interests of the individual member states are taken into account and that an orderly transition is possible. in conclusion, i wish you every success, commissioner. i know how difficult european tax policy is. the harmonization process is facing problems from all sides. we are making little progress on many issues, and as long as unanimity is the rule, it will be difficult to make any really useful progress. we are therefore supporting the report and your difficult work as tax commissioner.
i have to say, madam president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for drawing up the report. i have followed the opinion on behalf of my group in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and have therefore also dealt with the dossier and i would now like to concentrate on two main points: first of all, i should like to say that i very much welcome the abolition of the registration tax proposed by the commission. i therefore support the report on this point too, in so far as it also maintains the gradual abolition of the registration tax. there are major differences between the member states which have a registration tax, both in the basis of assessment and in the level of registration tax. the registration tax has the widest variation of all taxes on cars in europe. these differences affect the smooth functioning of the internal market and therefore the registration tax should also be abolished as proposed. i am also in favour of a direct proportional relationship between taxation and co2 emissions, as are my colleagues, and mr langen in particular. every gram of co2 emitted has the same effect on the climate and should therefore be taxed at the same rate. the taxation must also be technology neutral. proportional taxation ensures that vehicles with higher co2 emissions are taxed at a higher rate than those with lower co2 emissions. this is crucial for climate protection. i also think that pollutants such as nox and particulate matter should be included in the tax base for motor vehicle taxation. this promotes environmentally friendly motor vehicles. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the amendments are adopted and i shall vote in favour of amendments nos 10 and 19 and the report as a whole in the plenary tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the rapporteur. i'm grateful to the commissioner for allowing her to be here today and for the preparation of the report. the report on the taxation of motor vehicles is a step in the right direction for two reasons. firstly, from an environmental point of view, it makes sense to include all emissions as a basis for taxing passenger cars. both co2 emissions, which are responsible for climate change, and emissions of nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, which are responsible for ozone formation and lung diseases, should be included in the taxation. it makes sense and it's the right thing to do. secondly, from the consumer and environmental point of view, the abolition of the registration tax is still welcome. the registration tax is responsible for the fact that motor vehicles produced in one eu member state are exported to another eu member state with registration taxes before being reimported by re-importers from the country of manufacture. this leads to redundant motor vehicle traffic and higher purchase prices. perhaps the abolition of registration tax in europe will stop this re-import trade and reduce the average age of the motor vehicle fleet, which will ultimately benefit the environment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her report. i think you look very fit without makeup. the unification of the 25 different systems of taxation of cars in the eu will make it possible for the internal market to function better. we know that, and we have to admit it, ladies and gentlemen, to those who deny it: the proposal aims to eliminate double taxation in the case of crossborder movements of vehicles, and to eliminate distortions and inefficiencies. the partial registration taxes - we have heard this enough - naturally lead to the fact that citizens have to face considerable financial and administrative obstacles when they want to transfer a vehicle from one member state to another. so let us finally slaughter this sacred cow of admission taxes - also and perhaps especially because of the environmental aspect! tax measures are one of the three pillars of the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from cars. this approach is good, but in my opinion it is too short-sighted. the tax should not be linked to co2 emissions only, but to pollutant emissions in general. because in addition to co2 - and this has been said many times already - there are also nitrogen oxides and, of course, particulate emissions. for this reason, these elements should also be taken into account in the tax. the abolition of the registration tax - i am convinced of this - will have positive environmental effects, because of course it will lead to a faster renewal of the vehicle fleet. the aim of reducing the cost of ownership is to encourage consumers to replace their old vehicles as quickly as possible with fuel-saving and less polluting vehicles. the tax base for motor vehicle taxes should therefore generally be emissions. and in order to ensure fair and neutral taxation, the tax rates must be defined in direct proportion to the emissions of pollutants. the annual emission-related control load must increase linearly with increasing emissions.
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i should like to thank the rapporteur and those meps who supported the abolition of registration taxes, the establishment of refund systems for car taxes and the application of fiscal measures to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars and improve fuel economy. the latter implements the third-pillar measures provided for by the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars endorsed by the council in 1996. it is the only pillar of the three that make up the strategy that has not yet been implemented at community level. i should like to stress once again that the proposal of the commission does not involve any kind of harmonisation and certainly would not touch the rates of car taxation. it would only propose the harmonisation of the structure of car taxation, certainly not the rate. i have taken note of the parliament’s amendments. the commission could accept 15 amendments in principle – amendments 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 19, 23, 24, 28, 29, 31 and 32 – which reinforce and clarify the proposal. we will do our utmost to take on board as many of them as possible during the forthcoming discussions in the council. however, at this stage in the legislative procedure, the commission will not formally revise its proposal. i now turn to the group of amendments suggesting that car tax differentiation should be based not only on carbon dioxide emissions but also on other pollutants – in particular amendments 1, 2, 7, 8, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21, 25, 26, 27, 30 and 36. in principle the commission encourages member states to apply coordinated fiscal incentives under certain conditions – for example, to expedite the placing on the market of passenger cars satisfying future requirements. however, mixing the objectives on carbon dioxide emissions covered by the kyoto protocol with those on pollutant emissions covered by the sixth environmental action programme would lead to increased internal market fragmentation in the area of passenger cars and endanger the whole compromise in the council. as far as the commission is concerned, it is not necessary to include fuel consumption or fuel efficiency, because co2 emissions and fuel efficiency are directly linked. some of you suggested that the transitional period – which in the proposal we set at between five and ten years – be fixed at ten years. that is acceptable to the commission in the spirit of the compromise because it would certainly facilitate the smooth transition that we very much support. on the question of linear or progressive taxation, the commission does not express any preference in the proposal. we want to keep it open for each member state to decide. amendment 4 refers to double taxation, while amendments 13 and 22 ask for a one-stop online solution in order to calculate registration taxes. amendments 34 and 37 ask for the scope to be extended to cover light duty vehicles. the commission, although sympathetic, considers that those measures would be difficult to adopt, mainly for reasons of subsidiarity of an economic or technical nature, or because they are beyond the scope of the proposed directive. the commission does not support amendment 20, which requests that a study be carried out by the end of 2006. that is an unrealistic time period within which to carry out such a study. the commission cannot support amendments 33, 35, 38, 39 or 40, either. i should like to express my thanks to the rapporteur and to parliament for the support and efforts to conciliate and strike a balance, taking into account the complexity of the issue of passenger car taxation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by mr luis de grandes pascual, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the multiannual financing of the activities of the european maritime safety agency in the field of marine pollution from ships and amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 (com (2005) 0210 c6-0153/2005 2005/0098 (cod)) (a6-0184/2006).
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has presented us with a proposal for a regulation extending the remit of the maritime safety agency. it is certainly right and sensible to have them carry out operational tasks in the field of pollution control. the agency has the expertise to support member states in preventing and combating marine pollution, with a focus on support. it is not intended to replace measures taken by the member states. the commission's role is to ensure that the necessary financial resources are made available on a long-term basis. no agency can do a smart job if it doesn't have enough money. the amount of eur 154 million proposed by the commission for the seven-year period is very realistic, as it is based on the experience of 2005 and 2006. but it also comes from a time when there should be 58.5 billion more available for category 1a. the overall category, which also funds emsa, has been reduced to 71%. emsa is not taking part in this reduction, so the old amount remains. not that i 'm being misunderstood . the committee on budgets is of the opinion that eur 154 million is the minimum amount that should be allocated to emsa to carry out the additional tasks. we in the committee on budgets would have been happy if our colleagues in the technical committee had seen this in the same light, had supported our approach and had also incorporated it in the regulation. we believe that the provision of insufficient community funds is simply a waste of money.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not it is good that we are debating this today and that we will decide tomorrow by a large majority. on 14 september, emsa will be officially opened in lisbon, and without a sound financial basis, it will be impossible to operate in a sound manner. i think that the regulation on the financing of measures to combat marine pollution will provide that financial basis. it has been said many times: we see 154 million euros from 2007 to 2013 as the minimum requirement. we will also be watching closely during these years to see if we need to make any improvements. i can assure mrs haug that we are taking care that nothing is wasted, but on the contrary that it is well funded and that the measures are also reasonable. it is clear that the member states are not relieved of their responsibilities. emsa can only support and complement. it is important to emphasize that marine pollution is not just about disasters. we have had prestige and erika, but we also have the daily rubbish on our seas, namely the illegal oil spills; and if environmental organizations have counted correctly, we have 3,000 illegal oil spills a year in european seas. there is something to be done here and i very much hope that with the help of the satellite monitoring system that emsa is to help build, we can better combat criminal activity on our seas. we are also pleased that the rapporteur, who was not doing so well before the summer, is back today, that we can, so to speak, launch this regulation with him tomorrow and that he has found good solutions together with the council - thank you very much for that - and that we are already done at first reading and do not need a conciliation procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that this will give us a new status as the european union among the citizens, by europe taking care of clean seas.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the extreme natural events are increasing. it is therefore good that the community has instruments of solidarity here. the disaster fund will be able to help in spain and greece in particular, but also in other countries. this aid must be as unbureaucratic as possible. these regions need european solidarity and we have the instruments to help them. but europe is an unsuitable donor when it comes to regular arson. i therefore attach to the call for support from the people concerned an expectation from the member states: hold the arsonists accountable, impose drastic penalties, especially when it comes to land speculation, as we unfortunately have to learn anew every year! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but whether europe will use its precious financial resources for rural development or even for crossborder cooperation to prevent and combat forest fires is another matter. i know that some delegations are calling for this, but i do not see forest fire prevention and the construction of fire barriers as an original european task. the commission has also proposed that the member states concerned should be allowed to use eu funds for this purpose. commissioner dimas has described life+ and other options, but please within your national financial framework, and not at the expense of environmental protection in other countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is obviously a pleasure for me to be here today, before this house, to discuss a country which is particularly dear to me, the democratic republic of the congo, and more particularly the electoral process which is taking place there at the moment. you will recall that after the signing of the lusaka ceasefire agreements in july 1999, the european union and the european commission worked tirelessly alongside the congo to bring peace and stability to the country and to the great lakes region as a whole. i think it is with a certain pride that we can say today that the process of pacification and democratization in the drc is one of the few cases where the european union has been able to show itself to be a genuine political actor by deploying all its instruments of foreign policy. it is worth recalling here the strengthening of development cooperation under the cotonou agreement, which had been suspended for more than a decade, the common foreign and security policy, the external security and defence policy, the appointment of a special envoy, the only military operations conducted outside europe: artémis in 2003 to pacify ituri, eufor now, to directly support a united nations peacekeeping mission, and an election observation mission headed by your colleague, general morillon, in which many of you participated. i am glad that so many diplomatic and financial efforts have finally resulted in the holding of the first round of the presidential and parliamentary elections on 30 july. this first encounter with democracy in over 40 years took place in what can be described as exemplary conditions, given the general situation in the country. the election observation mission was able to see firsthand the objective difficulties facing the country and its population. despite these difficulties and the unrest that followed the provisional publication of the results of the first round of the presidential elections, this is a major achievement, and we can only be satisfied with it. i can assure you that throughout this process, the task has not been easy for anyone, especially not for the congolese and their leaders who have inherited a country divided, shaken by years of war. a country where 30 years of bad governance and corruption have destroyed the institutional capacity of the rule of law, irreparably damaged basic infrastructure and profoundly altered the socioeconomic fabric and social organisation. these elections are a unique opportunity to put an end once and for all to the bad practices of the past, which have led the country to bankruptcy, plunged it into the abyss of war and dragged it into the pernicious spiral of underdevelopment and poverty. the congo has significant natural resources, a strategic position at the crossroads of central africa, and a high-quality human potential; i firmly believe that the congo will one day be called upon to play a major role in the stabilization and development of the whole of africa if good governance, the rule of law, human rights and the essential elements to which the congo has subscribed by ratifying the cotonou agreement are fully respected. thanks to the work done so far, there is now a real possibility of laying new institutional and administrative foundations for the country and of proceeding - i am not exaggerating - to a re-foundation of the state. it is not the interests of a few individuals that are at stake, but those of the whole of the congo and its people, and we, the european union, have a moral obligation to respond effectively and with foresight to this demand which the congolese people are loudly expressing. the deplorable events which followed the provisional publication of the results on 20, 21 and 22 august do not, in my view, in any way diminish the symbolic value of this major event in congolese history. by their massive turnout at the polls and their exemplary behaviour, the congolese people have given a great and beautiful lesson in democracy and civility to their leaders and politicians, which cannot be ignored. in view of the second round of the presidential elections, scheduled for 29 october 2006, it is therefore necessary to urge by all means the two candidates for the supreme magistracy to submit to the verdict of the ballot box and above all to respect the results unconditionally. i would also like to stress the importance, which has often been overlooked so far, of the results of the parliamentary elections, which will determine the majority in parliament from which the prime minister and the future government will have to emerge. the new constitution gives the country the institutional architecture of a modern country where the separation of powers guarantees a balance of power and where the government is accountable to its citizens by submitting to regular elections. despite the difficulties of the past few days, the objective of the european union's action in the drc can only be to bring to a successful conclusion a transition process which must involve the installation of new authorities and institutions on the basis of the results of the elections, in accordance with international standards of transparency and reliability in electoral matters. it is clear that the situation remains tense and that this tension is likely to worsen as the electoral campaign and the date of the second round of voting, 29 october, approach. it is therefore essential that the international community continue to monitor closely and constantly the situation on the ground. in this respect, i am convinced that monuc and eufor and the congolese people can make a major contribution to preventing violence and violence in kinshasa. in the face of these objective difficulties, the first encouraging signals are coming from the field. a joint commission on the events in kinshasa has just been set up under the auspices of the united nations; the commission will be divided into two subcommittees, an independent subcommittee of inquiry which will be responsible for establishing the facts about the events of 20, 21 and 22 august in kinshasa, and a subcommittee whose task will be to define the rules of conduct necessary to ensure that the electoral campaign for the second round of the presidential election and the post-electoral period take place in a calm manner, in accordance with the will of the congolese people. the two parties also pledged to cooperate fully with the independent commission of inquiry and committed to work towards the continuation of the electoral process in accordance with the comprehensive and inclusive pretoria agreement. to this end, the two subcommittees began their work on wednesday 30 august 2006. on the other hand, it is important that other african actors, notably the african union and south africa, take the lead in bringing president kabila and vice-president bemba closer together, in the common interest of the nation. as regards the european commission, i am pleased to inform you that i have just responded positively to the request of the secretary-general kofi annan to help cover the financing deficit of the electoral process of 46 million dollars by making an additional contribution of 16 million euros; the total community contribution to the electoral process will therefore amount to eur 165 million. i can also confirm that the election observation mission headed by general morillon will continue to monitor the progress of the electoral process in this interim period until its conclusion.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commissioner and the commission are responsible for what he said. the commissioner is solely responsible for a statement made by mr michel in an interview some time ago. the committee on development and cooperation discussed this with the commissioner a week ago. i think that's the end of it. but there is a lesson to be learned from this. what is said here about the congo does not always get the attention we get, but it does get the attention it deserves. we learned that the hard way. so everyone should watch his tongue when he contributes to the debate. this is the night when the results of the parliamentary elections and the results of the supreme court's review are expected. this is the moment when the first round of voting for the presidential election can be completed. it is not appropriate at this stage to discuss the congo. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report. you have made this first election a success through hard work, patience and perseverance. let us wish the congolese people and ourselves that the newly elected national assembly, which has been in session for the first time in forty years, may begin its work. it will help stabilize the country. she'll be an important interlocutor for us. let's get involved in the preparation of the provincial elections! europe and its member states must play an effective role in this support, and our support must extend to the entire electoral process and the subsequent build-up phase. the eu election observation mission will remain in the country, as our colleague mr morillon will confirm. the un is making a significant contribution. monuc and eufor have found their roles and are respected, and we members of parliament will be watching the forthcoming elections. the democratic potential of the congo is considerable and inspires hope. the democratization process is, however, threatened by some well-known forces. let's get them excited. let us convince them that the success of a peaceful, democratic election, the establishment of legitimate state authority, is also in their interest. it is the only chance for the congo and its people.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i regret that we are discussing this rather important subject at this hour. i also regret that we are doing this at the same time as a foreign affairs committee meeting, where turkey is being voted on at the moment. unfortunately, this is also an indication of how 'important' this issue is perceived to be. i expressly welcome the fact that these elections have taken place. i am, however, much more skeptical than my predecessors. it is said that the elections and also the deployment of eufor would have been very successful. i think the european union and the congo have narrowly avoided disaster! let's assume that kabila would have been elected in the first round: the situation would be much worse than it is now. it was not really a political election, as the election results and the campaign show. it was a very strongly regionalist election, and there is a de facto east-west split in the congo. many eu officials, most notably louis michel, have unilaterally sided with joseph kabila. mr schröder, i would like to say that the matter is settled. but no, she had a lot of influence on the ground, and i want to quote from an article in the german wave. it says: at least as grossly negligent as bemba's ethno-nationalist and sometimes racist campaign has been the behaviour of europeans, especially the piquantly belgian development commissioner louis michel. the people in the west of the country and especially in the bemba stronghold of kinshasa have never forgiven him for clearly and publicly favoring the incumbent kabila before the polls opened at the end of july 2006. mr michel, normally you would resign for something like this. i still demand your resignation for this action. mr michel, we also know that a whole range of economic interests are at stake. the belgian george forrest has invested 400 million dollars in a copper mine in kamato and he has probably contributed a lot to mr kabila's election campaign - at least that is what we hear. the neue zürcher zeitung clearly states that mr kabila has used state resources and received grants from foreign mining companies. i don't think that's a good sign. we can only hope for a truly neutral role for the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the events in kinshasa on 21 and 22 august have clearly demonstrated that the decision of the european union to participate by military force in the security of the elections in the congo was the right one. there were many voices in various member states of the european union who doubted whether this approach could be useful, whether the european union and its armed forces could really make an effective contribution. mr philippe morillon, whom we must thank for his excellent work as head of the election observers, has just confirmed once again that without the intervention of the troops under european command, in particular the spanish and the polish, it would not have been possible to restore peace in such a rapid manner. i think that's the best sign that this decision was the right one. but we must remain vigilant, even for the days and weeks ahead. it is also important that our activities in the congo closely link the civil and military instruments of crisis management. the commissioner, mr louis michel, has just given a very impressive account of what the european union has already done in the past to stabilize the congo. the security of these elections is only one of many steps. i am confident that after these elections the commissioner will also develop the concepts necessary to further stabilise this country in the heart of africa, which is also important for the security of europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the doha round has failed. the commissioner, what you are presenting to us today is the same infusion that has been used to put the round against the wall. what gives you hope that you'll be able to finish this? if you say that the developing countries are the losers, that they suffer the greatest damage from the stagnation, why have the countries and the representatives of the third world not completed the round? perhaps these countries saw things differently and were even wise not to do so, because the liberalisation which you are proposing and which you want to implement has obviously not made these countries rich. it is not satisfying the people there either, but it has put them into debt and has not solved the problem of hunger. if these countries, who are now coming together for the first time, against the industrial nations of the west, can achieve the strength necessary to make this thing fail, then that is another quality and we should see how we come to a different offer here. they say that the tariff reduction offer will bring 20 billion euros to european agriculture. is it true that european agriculture has too much of these 20 billion euros? and if we are going to mine here, will these 20 billion benefit at least the third world countries, or is this just a reduction in the level of nutrition? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what we need is a qualification. the market access you offer in return for market access for industrial products and services in third world countries is destroying the infrastructure and the tender seedlings of industrial and craft development there, and is leaving farming without a chance of survival, even though it is urgently necessary for us to produce food. we therefore need quality, qualified market access, which will allow the third world countries to share in our price level, in our standards and thus give them the opportunity to develop their economies. we have seen in the context of the sugar agreement that those acp countries which were able to supply sugar on these terms have developed their economies. the countries that did not have this opportunity have been bought up by the multinationals below the poverty line, and this will continue. so, mr mandelson, make a proper offer, one that the countries can accept, one that does not lead to the general destruction of farming worldwide, but brings stability to food and stability and quality to trade! then i think the multilateral approach is right and everyone can benefit from it. but certainly not the liberalisation you propose!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the doha development round has failed. what should develop? that is the key question. should trade develop only because of trade, or should there be development through trade development? if there is development through trade development, then you have to include a lot more other things in the negotiations. the question then arises: what does trade in the different countries do to raise social standards, to improve environmental protection, to improve the quality of life? this is a very different approach to what i would call the primacy approach: i want to open up markets so that larger trade margins can be exchanged. then there can be no reciprocity. solidarity means that the stronger help the weaker. this means that the more developed countries must give more than the less developed. this is not just a question of quantity, but also a different qualitative approach. it also means understanding that someone who has not yet developed his market in his own country must have the opportunity to develop it himself. to do this, he may need to have a closed market for a while before he can open it. what good is it to many developing countries to be promised that they can export to the european union if they have no products to export because they are not even able to feed their own population? but at the same time we are telling these countries that if they are to do this, they must open their markets to our services and to our industry. if we continue to negotiate at this level, we will never reach an agreement. and i'm a fanatic supporter of a multilateral system. mr. mandelson, you remember the following: i have asked you many times whether you really believe that the united states has an interest in the multilateral conclusion of the wto round. i always said i didn't believe it. the united states can better assert its interests if it is not bound by multilateral agreements. that is why it is much more important that the european union should join the g20. of course, this must be weighed up, because there are also serious differences between the countries of the south. it is not enough to open up the markets if i open up the european market to the big brazilian agricultural business, which is dominated by three families. i have not helped these countries in any way, in any way! what we need, in my view, is a rethinking of the approach. we want a deal. they say very often: we want free trade. this is an ideological argument. i don't want this kind of liberalization, but i'll leave that aside. it is not so much about having free trade as it is about achieving fair trade. fair trade is fair trade. and "just" does not mean "equal". if i set the same standards for all groups of countries, the same standards for reduction, the same standards for opening up, then it is not fair, it is simply the same. the mandate you have must be changed. that's the approach you need. if we want to promote trade, we have to take account of the sensitivities of individual countries and the development status of these countries. this has to be a priority!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have had the pleasure of following trade policy in this house for 12 years, i have seen three commissioners, and i know how difficult this subject is. this house has seen all the developments; it has seen how difficult it is to conduct multilateral negotiations and how difficult it is also to understand what a modern trade policy and trade strategy means. i am personally very sceptical that we always get this right. i can relate to many of the points you have just made and i am grateful that you have referred to the new commission communication 'global europe: competing in the world' which we will receive shortly. but sometimes i'm also a little skeptical about our own self-criticism and our understanding of the changes we're experiencing in the world. on the one hand, it is certainly easy to criticize the americans - and there are many reasons to criticize them - but it is also important to mention that, for reasons already mentioned by my colleagues, there is also scepticism in developing countries such as brazil about joining the wto. another factor may be that china has become a global trading partner and its impact is more severe in mexico or other countries than in the eu or the united states. there are so many reasons, and i sometimes miss them, why the debate on modern trade policy, which you yourself have mentioned in your own document, is not being conducted in the depth that it should be. this includes understanding that the eu member states are very differently positioned to global challenges. we have countries that are very open because they can afford to be, but we also have countries that have been very late in their reforms and their transformation and therefore have difficulties. we see this in the debate on textiles, we see it in the anti-dumping debate on shoes, and there are many other examples. i just miss us actually reflecting on what we mean by modern trade policy. this includes, as i mentioned, the role of china. have we really understood what the inclusion of china in the wto means? the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. i miss this debate about the implications and the consequences. i miss the debate, and i support it. this house has already supported it in 2002 and has spoken in favour of opening bilateral negotiations with asia. i do not, however, see the depth of the debate with this house and with the committee responsible. i miss the discussion about what it means to go to the gats+ negotiations in the bilateral round. here again: you're right, but i miss the discussion. what i particularly miss in the context of a modern trade policy is that this house is fully involved, and that is already in the discussions on the negotiations, not just when we are supposed to agree to the outcome of the negotiations. we have already negotiated a stuttgart declaration between the commission, the council and the european parliament, in which the european parliament is fully or at least largely involved. i would recommend to you, and i hope you will agree, that we do this again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is of course a fundamental problem if the doha round negotiations are cancelled. but in every crisis, there is an opportunity. moving from one round to the next and constantly saying that we are not satisfied with it but we will continue has not brought much success, as we have seen in recent years. accordingly, the time we have now must also be a time for reflection. in theory, we all see that the wto with 150 members cannot be run as it was originally run with 23. why don't we draw some conclusions? why can we not even think about where the european interests are in the whole and where we are in the various sectors? it is not enough to say that agriculture accounts for only 2 or 3% of total trade if it is affecting large regions of the european union and if it is changing the shape of our society. so we have to come up with some kind of overall concept. it's really worth a shot to look for this concept. the wto negotiations, the trade negotiations, which are conducted like a patchwork of carpets - i give you three cows and you give me two fish - are not going to bring any more. if the differentiation between countries is constantly growing - and you have said that, commissioner - why do we think in terms of multilateral or bilateral? why can't we start thinking in categories like multi-regional? we cannot treat all countries with the same standard in this differentiated world. with all our love for development policy - and i am also behind it - we as the european union also have a duty to our own citizens. what is very important in these rounds and what the failure of these rounds has shown is this: the european parliament must be more closely involved in the negotiations. it is not enough for a parliament to say at the end: yes, i agree, or no, i do not agree. if we are complaining that the citizen is not included, then at least his representatives should have the right to be involved in the negotiations and at least be heard. we are the ones who have to explain it to the voters afterwards.
the next item is the report by mrs lissy gröner, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the proposal and amended proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing the 'anti-violence programme (daphne) ' for the period 2007-2013 as part of the 'fundamental rights and justice' framework programme (com (2005) 0122 com (2006) 0230) (a6-0193/2006).
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. the commission had originally proposed to present daphne as a joint programme to combat violence and to prevent and detect drugs. it took a determined fight for the commission to withdraw this proposal. the committee on women's rights and gender equality and women's organisations have together sent clear signals here, and i am really relieved that they have prevented a mixture of drugs and violence and that we can now continue one of the most successful programmes of the union. however, only around 17% of the good proposals submitted have been funded so far under daphne i and ii. this shows that the need is enormous, and that is why the committee on women's rights and gender equality is also calling for an increase in the average. today we are sending two very clear signals. firstly, europe will give greater weight to the fight against violence and will not mix it with other aspects. secondly, we recognise and support the valuable work of local organisations - women's organisations, numerous self-help and human rights organisations, youth associations and their networks. the daily violence is increasing, especially the transnational phenomena. this is where the daphne programme comes in. it's born out of the shock. the women's movement has put domestic violence, child abuse, trafficking for sexual exploitation and so on at the heart of its work, and we have been able to develop a lot of good projects in this area. we have been able to raise public awareness, and not just since the world cup. daphne i and daphne ii have brought valuable insights, such as the development of a toolkit for all projects, which could then be easily shared with the various specialist organisations, and studies and contacts with a wide range of specialists, far beyond the borders of europe. but now we have new tasks to face. with daphne iii, crossborder 'networking' has become much more important. we have new phenomena in the field of migration, and there is much work to be done in the field of trafficking in human beings. we have proposed to provide financial support for a network of ombudsmen for children and to provide emergency telephone numbers for children with a single number throughout europe. we also want to strengthen the networks of organizations that deal with online violence. there's a long list of different activities. that is why the demand for 120 or 125 million euros, as proposed by the gue/ngl group, is not an unreasonable demand, and i hope that this house will support the enormous need that lies behind it. we have had very good experiences with daphne with a helpdesk which we as parliament had implemented in the last phase. it enables organisations to connect across borders and across borders and to find the right partners. we should also draw on the vast wealth of knowledge that exists in the organizations in the context of a think tank, and bring that knowledge into this area and deepen it. i do not want to overburden daphne either, and that is why i ask for caution on amendment no 56. it should be clearly defined that the main target group for daphne is children, women and young people and that this does not include groups such as social workers, border guards, police, etc. a message: clearly the main target group is women, children and young people! the others can be involved, as is clear in amendment no 57, for example. we continue to call for a 'european year of violence against women'. this is also an old demand, which was raised in daphne i and ii, and we remain persistent and consistent in this regard. i ask that we keep a clear and distinct view of all forms of violence. the committee on women's rights and gender equality has been working consistently with the commission on this, and i hope that we will reach a conclusion with the finnish presidency before the end of the year. we're ready to go.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we also thank the rapporteur. i think it is a great success for women all over europe that we have succeeded in preventing the merger of daphne and the anti-drug programme. the parliament has thus sent a signal and reaffirmed that the programme to combat violence against women, children and young people must remain autonomous. daphne is a small but very successful programme which has already made important progress in combating violence against women. violence against women is not a private matter, it is a matter of internal security. the most dangerous place for a woman is her home. while for many the family and home are the epitome of peace and security, for millions of women they are places of suffering, abuse, torture and even death. all human beings, whether male or female, are entitled to all human rights. neither culture nor tradition can excuse the violation of women's basic human rights. violence against women is therefore not just a women's issue; it affects men as well. they must take responsibility and actively speak out against violence against women. violence against women must end, on the battlefield as well as in the bedroom. the continuation of daphne, however, cannot be the only measure to combat violence against women. we want the european commission to show that the fight against violence is a top political priority by issuing a directive of its own. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is scandalous that the european commission is turning a blind eye to this demand and is ignoring the need for european harmonisation of legislation. it is very important that we really get an independent directive, and i would also like the commission to say something about that today. we have repeatedly referred to this in many resolutions, whether on women's day or on other occasions, as the european parliament. we also hope that the eu commission and council will now conclude the negotiations on daphne as soon as possible, so that the new edition of the programme can start in time for 2007. it is also important for us, especially now that the women's rights activist seyran ateş has stopped practicing law in germany due to an acute threat, that we also put the human rights violations against migrant women in the centre and say: zero tolerance.
i now call mrs lévai, who is also not in the chamber. the list of speakers is now complete. i give the floor to mr frattini to apologise for the fact that parliament is, as always, restless because we are anxious to vote. mr frattini, the rapporteur and all of us are interested in listening. i am sorry, madam president, you were not at your seat when i called you. i can't put you at the bottom of the list of speakers. you're like mrs. kauppi. colleagues, if someone is not in their seat during a debate, it is the president of the sitting's decision not to give them the floor afterwards. (applause) i would like to thank it is a question of politeness, mrs kauppi, to be here not only for your speaking time, but also to listen to others.
mrs kauppi, i am a long-standing member of this house. i know that it is difficult to know exactly when your speaking time will be, but i say again, and with all due humility, that i personally – you may think differently – find it polite to listen to the debate, to be here before your speaking time. if that was the case each time then this could not happen. your name came up on the screen, as did other members’ names – such as that of mrs geringer de oedenberg, for example. they were surprised that some colleagues were not here, so their speaking time was brought forward by five minutes. i cannot help that. i can only invite everyone who speaks in a debate to be here from the beginning of the debate. if that were the case then this would not happen to you again. that applies to everyone who was absent from the chamber when i called their names. i called five or six people who were not here today and so they could not speak. normally, when we have a lot of time, i am very happy, as every vice-president is, to add names at the end of a debate. however, we cannot do that today as we have to vote on the report. i should now like to give the floor to commissioner frattini.
thank you very much, commissioner. colleagues, i should just like to remind those who were not here earlier why we have had problems today with the timing of the debate. commissioner mandelson decided to speak for 28 minutes instead of the 12 or 15 minutes maximum. we must clarify such things in the relationship between parliament and the commission. we cannot solve it today, but that is what causes the problems. i apologise for the fact that voting time has had to be delayed.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank you on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality and i would really ask you to put into practice what you have just said and to develop a legal instrument to actively combat violence against children, women and young people. the support for this proposal came from almost all the groups today. i would ask you to take up the debate now so that we can reach a conclusion quickly. cooperation is a given.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
the next item is the continuation of the votes.
the rapporteur. the commission is not this is about the funding of the programme. if we vote on amendment no 74 by the gue/ngl group, we will be voting against more than 125 million euros. that is why i ask that this motion be put to the vote first. if it is adopted, amendment no 71 will be repealed, which concerns the 120 million euro.
we have already made provision for this in the voting list.
mr president, i think this amendment is actually obsolete because we rejected the consumption taxation in amendment no 11 above.
it's being checked. it could be. i do not dare to make an ad hoc decision at this stage, but it will be noted and checked.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask the rapporteur to say something before the final vote. i am not going to go into the details of the vote, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this decision. we are sometimes in favour of including the polluting component, sometimes against. we are in favour of including fuel consumption in the budget, but we are against it. we are sometimes in favour of taking efficiency into account, sometimes against it. we are in favour of maintaining the registration tax, but we are against it. perhaps you can tell me how i should behave in the final vote. i really don't know what to do!
this was a somewhat unusual procedure, because unfortunately it is more common for votes to be not entirely coherent, but if you, madam rapporteur, can give an opinion on this, we would all be very grateful.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a pity that this report on a european social model for the future does not help us much. none of the existing social models within the eu has so far even in principle met the requirements of creating the conditions for every person to be able to lead a life of self-determination in dignity within the eu. overcoming poverty, reducing social divisions and taking strong action to protect the climate are, in my view, the greatest challenges, including for the eu's internal market. i therefore believe that economic and monetary union must be supplemented by a european social union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat social dumping, including the establishment of minimum social standards throughout europe and the establishment of poverty-resistant european social systems. unfortunately, the report on a european social model for the future does not contain any substantive proposals aimed at a europe of genuine solidarity and social cohesion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. two colleagues from different political groups are jointly writing a report on the future of the european social model. a job that paid off! the european social model defines the unity of values but also the diversity of national systems. the values include solidarity, social justice, access to education and health services, but implementation is a matter for the member states, with their different models - nordic or anglo-saxon, continental or mediterranean. the national security systems are highly vulnerable to globalisation and to worrying demographic trends. this is where major reforms are needed to ensure sustainable financing. systems must become more dynamic, not so rigid. i welcome the report's support for smes, which continue to provide the majority of training and employment, and the innovative approach of flexicurity, i.e. flexible labour markets and modern work organisation, while at the same time providing security and social protection. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. firstly, in paragraphs 13 and 14, where the open method of coordination is concerned. it must not lead to a new legislative procedure and is acceptable only if it is limited to the exchange of experience and best practice. the national parliaments and the social partners must be involved. secondly, paragraph 23, which calls for a framework directive on services of general economic interest, is totally contrary to the current state of affairs. thirdly, the globalisation fund, referred to in paragraph 31. we reject the idea of a europe-wide financing of company relocations. we do not need extensive authorization procedures or new bureaucracies, and certainly not the privatization of public capital. only measures to provide continuing training and retraining for workers affected by globalisation are acceptable. we are counting on the support of this house to enable us to approve the report as a whole.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. climate change is one of the most important challenges we face as politicians. emissions trading should be one of the main instruments to meet this challenge. but if we look at the first phase, the results so far are not very convincing. many member states did not start trading on 1 january 2005 as planned. the national allocation plans - including those approved by the commission in the first phase - were not really ambitious, and what was of course particularly annoying for the economy in the countries which had relatively ambitious plans was that the criteria for allocating the emission allowances were very different. for example, in one country a steelworks or a limeworks has received far more emission certificates than in another country. the differences were not only caused by kyoto, by burden sharing, but were in some cases exacerbated, and this naturally led to distortions of competition. the european parliament, when it was deciding on emissions trading under the codecision procedure, was in favour of very clear, precise guidelines. the commission said at the time that this was not necessary, that we could control this with the help of competition law and avoid excesses. i have the impression that the commission needs to look a little closer and avoid distortions of competition between member states and businesses in member states. as for the next phase, the objective must not be that emissions trading should work somehow, as in the first phase, but that it should work well. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european environment agency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw attention once again to the allocation plan submitted by germany. i want to do this because germany will be holding the presidency of the council of the european union and the g8 next year, because these are crucial presidencies in the context of climate change and energy policy. germany will lead the preparations for the next major un meeting next year 2007 , and groundbreaking decisions will be taken in heiligendamm. i do not think that an allocation plan such as that presented by the federal republic of germany would qualify the federal government for such tasks. on the contrary, the way in which the allowances are allocated already suggests that some of the major german energy suppliers will again use this emissions trading alone to justify price increases, as we have already seen in the last year. it is also clear that germany - as this allocation plan shows - is giving up any incentive to switch from coal to lower carbon fuels. i think that's a disgrace and totally unacceptable given the current climate debate. if the eu is to continue to play its leading role in climate protection in the future - and it should - the federal republic of germany, which will bear the decisive responsibility for kyoto and the post-kyoto process, must be asked to correct itself.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for this excellent debate, on which i would like to comment on a few points on behalf of the council. firstly, as regards these emission levels, one should not draw too strong conclusions from a single year, but a period of consideration of several years is absolutely necessary. for example, in our northern climate, the annual temperature whether winter is cold or warm and the water situation have a very important impact not only on energy consumption but also on energy production and thus also on emissions, so that annual variations can be large. as this debate has shown, the drawing up of the next period's allocation plans is under way in the member states and, in addition to the member states whose proposals are already before the commission, about a dozen countries have already published their own plans and are in the final stages of national consideration. the other member states are not quite so far along, but are certainly moving in that direction. it should be noted that this mathematics concerns twenty-seven european countries, not just twenty-five. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we expect the commission's assessment later this autumn, perhaps very soon. we certainly agree, however, that despite its shortcomings, this system is absolutely necessary and must be vigorously pursued in the direction of its original objective, namely to provide a genuine and real incentive for operators to invest in low-carbon, environmentally friendly technology.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank all the speakers for their contributions to this afternoon’s discussion. we see that they are very concerned about this global problem and how the european union is responding to it. before i continue, i should like to assure mrs doyle that this discussion was not used as a cover by the commission, for the simple reason that it was parliament and not us who asked for this debate. so it cannot be a cover-up. also, concerning my failure to mention that ireland submitted a national allocation plan, i have it in my papers. i said ten member states and i thought i mentioned ireland, but if you did not hear it, then you are right. looking further ahead, concerning the review, i am now preparing a high-quality review of the european union emissions trading scheme to identify improvements to be made beyond 2012. this could not be done before because until 30 june 2006 we had not even received the actual emissions. the emissions were reported on 15 may 2006, but some countries sent their actual emissions on 30 june 2006. so how could we have the review before we received the actual emissions? later this year, following the adoption of the european union emissions trading system review report in the coming weeks, the commission will activate a stakeholder group under the auspices of the european climate change programme to intensify the debate on the review. i firmly believe that we need to focus the review debate early in the process to ensure a high-quality outcome. the priority issues to be tackled in the review are, therefore, the harmonisation and extension of the scope of the directive, further harmonisation and more predictability of the cap-setting and allocation process – including consideration of competitiveness, more robust compliance and enforcement of the rules and the linking to trading schemes in third countries and increased involvement of developing countries. the commission has already confirmed its intention to address aviation’s climate change impact through emissions trading. there are a number of good ideas to make emissions trading more effective, including giving longer-term certainty on allocations and increasing harmonisation in a number of areas. we need more time to discuss and further develop these valuable ideas. i am therefore aiming for the commission to present a legislative proposal in the course of 2007. here i should like to give a short answer regarding the concern expressed about power companies making windfall profits by pricing in the cost of allocations, although they receive them for free. some companies have done that. the electricity price rose, not only because of the emissions trading system, but mainly because of high fuel prices and because of the lack of competition in the power and gas market – a lack of liberalisation. however, as one colleague mentioned, perhaps auctioning could be a solution, along with liberalisation, so we would avoid having windfall profits by power companies with consumers paying a higher price for electricity. according to the directive, auctioning is permitted for the second trading period, up to 10%. that is going to be one of the issues that will be discussed during the review period of the directive. looking back, we can say that the infrastructure for emissions trading is sound and the market in allowances is developing rather well. in the first year of operations, 2005 – at least according to world bank data – 320 million allowances are reported to have been traded via market intermediaries, valued at more than eur 6 million. so, no one can say that the emissions trading system has failed. in 2006, the monthly trading volume has increased steadily, with volumes of 80 to 100 allowances in a busy month. a number of organised exchanges across europe are offering platforms for trading allowances and a number of other market intermediaries, such as brokers, are also active in the market. i would like to say a few words about the so-called ‘over-allocation’ of allowances to installations that are covered by the emissions trading system. it is a fact that we had about 3% more allowances allocated than actual emissions. that could be for various reasons, one of which could be that companies’ installations reacted to the emissions saving system and the obligations arising from the system, and they have made the most obvious and easiest reductions in emissions by improving energy efficiency, for example, or through other easy-to-take measures. it was the case in germany that we had a real reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide from installations. another reason could be the very mild winter that we had in 2005, which reduced the cost of heating, and – perhaps the main reason – the companies participating in the system were over-optimistic about their business growth and over-estimated their emissions, while the member states were complacent in accepting their figures. but, during the second trading period, we have made it quite clear to all member states that the 12 criteria of the directive should be kept, especially for those countries that did not contract to achieve their individual quota target, which will contribute to the overall target for the european union. also, the actual emissions that we have now should be taken into full account. i am going to be tough but fair with member states regarding the national allocation plans and am very glad for the support for this approach that has been obvious from your contributions today. the onus is firstly on governments to propose plans to the commission which ensure that the european union emissions trading system delivers its contribution to achieving our quota targets. at the same time, all stakeholders should engage in the process of improving and expanding the european union scheme, so as to secure a global carbon market that can deliver the emissions reductions necessary to tackle climate change. i would like to thank you for the rich debate with encouraging and important contributions and for your continued support for the fight against global warming and the threat posed to future generations.
the next item is question time (b6-0325/2006). we shall deal with the following questions to the commission. part one
question no 39 by mr medina ortega (h-0601/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: enlargement and illegal immigration what measures does the commission propose in view of the enlargement of the eu to include new central and eastern european countries with difficult-to-control borders in order to prevent the new enlargements from making it easier for illegal immigrants from third countries to enter the european union?
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very sensitive subject, and i can confirm that i have raised it personally in my recent talks with the authorities of both bulgaria and romania. the answers are reassuring as both these candidate countries close to accession are aware of the impact that dual citizenship can have on other eu member states, but they have raised a problem that the eu needs to be concerned about. this is the problem of countries such as ukraine and moldova, which are strongly calling for a new visa facilitation system for temporary entry into the territory of the european union. if we do not take seriously these strong demands for a visa system for ukraine and moldova, the citizens of those countries will of course try to resort to that dangerous loophole. as regards the free movement of workers, it is clear that the accession treaties of romania and bulgaria contain references to the possibility of extending the freedom of movement of workers to the other countries of the european union for a transitional period. the european commission's position, as regards the ten new member states which have been members of the union since 2004, is that there is no danger of an invasion of workers, and we have therefore published a communication. the two new member states, if they join at the beginning of next year, as i personally hope, will have some limitations, which will be understandable considering that they will be new member states in a second phase of enlargement.
question no 40 by mr van hecke (h-0613/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: american crude oil stocks us crude oil stocks rose by 1.4 million barrels to 347.1 million barrels in the week ending 16 june. american oil reserves are now at their highest level since may 1998. was this issue of the conspicuously high us oil reserves discussed at the annual eu-us summit in vienna? could it be that the us is hoarding the large reserves in order to keep the price of oil artificially high, with all the negative consequences for the european economy? what is the volume of us crude oil imports into the eu?
member of the commission. it is true that the united states’ reserves of crude oil and petroleum products have recently reached record levels. however, growing reserves of crude oil or petroleum products in any consumer country should normally not put upward pressure on the world oil price. it is a well-documented statistical belief among experts that prices of oil and oil products increasingly relax with growing levels of reserves in major consumer countries. that is because risk premium is an important element in the price of oil in the world markets and is priced in by market operators on the basis of evaluations of various risk factors. besides due political considerations, the probability of supply disruptions caused by insufficient spare capacities and reserve levels is a primary risk factor. hence comfortable or even record levels of crude oil or petroleum product reserves in important consumer countries such as the united states tend to reduce the perception of risk by a vast majority of operators in global oil markets. against this background, there was no need to discuss the question of levels of us crude oil and petroleum product reserves at the annual eu-us summit. as for the crude oil imports from the us to the european union, in the past three years the united states has supplied negligible quantities to the eu – less than one million tonnes per annum. that is less than 0.2% of eu’s total crude oil imports. in fact, the us itself is highly and increasingly dependent on crude oil imports.
member of the commission. it is true that given the situation of oil prices, a number of initiatives have been studied and included in the five-point plan presented by commissioner piebalgs since september 2005. these were further developed in the green paper on a european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy. the commission aims gradually to reduce the eu’s dependency on imported oil by creating energy efficiency, on the one hand, and by replacing it, on the other hand, with other energy sources, including biomass and other renewables. it also aims at strengthening the producer-consumer dialogue with oil-producing countries in order to promote new exploration and development to meet rising global demand; promoting transparency and predictability of the oil market and being well prepared for emergencies, especially by ensuring that member states maintain the stocks as set out in the relevant eu legislation. it is important to know that all these policies – the ones on the use of fuel for cars, biomass and all the other measures just mentioned – will have a beneficial impact mainly in the medium to long term and not for the immediate future.
member of the commission. there is a number in the plan of commissioner piebalgs in this respect, so i would not, at this point, list which are priorities or otherwise. the issue of biofuel is one of the priorities in the european union. it has been discussed in the college of commissioners and in the council, as have other areas such as the use of wind and solar energy. what i can do, given that i am not an expert on this issue, is to make sure that there will be a written reply from my colleague with more detail on this issue.
question no 41 by mr florenz (h-0639/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: classification of secondhand smoke as a human carcinogenin its resolution of 23 february 2006 on the european action plan on the environment and health 2004-2010, parliament encouraged the commission to classify tobacco smoke in the environment as a category i carcinogen as soon as possible. however, the informal consultation on eu-level policies for smoke-free zones, carried out by the directorate-general for health and consumer protection (deadline 14 june), does not refer to this. has the commission taken any action on the labelling of secondhand smoke as a human carcinogen? if not, why not? does the commission intend to follow the recommendation of the aspect report and classify secondhand smoke as a carcinogen? if not, why not?
member of the commission. i should like to thank mr florenz, because every time he asks questions on this subject he really helps our policies. it is true that it is estimated that 25% of all cancers in the european union could be attributed to smoking. the world health organisation, the finnish and german governments and us agencies have already classified environmental tobacco smoke as a human carcinogen. as i have said to parliament on many occasions in the past, action towards a smoke-free europe is one of my main priorities. before the end of 2006, the commission intends to put forward a document on smoke-free environments, which will discuss the way forward to tackle passive smoking in europe. it is true that dg sanco’s informal consultation did not mention the classification of ets as a carcinogen, firstly because it had a preliminary and informal character and it tried to get the opinion of selected players. however, we place great importance on parliament’s view that classifying tobacco smoke as a carcinogen would be advisable. the problem is legal and not political, because we agree. there is a gap in the european legislation, so i would cover two aspects. firstly, we have the problem that the existing legislation in the european union that deals with dangerous products and substances does not cover smoke as such, but only products placed on the market. therefore there is a gap there in the legislation. at the same time, the approach was similar to the legislation that deals with protection from carcinogens in the workplace. these two pieces of legislation unfortunately apply only to substances and preparations placed on the market. under the purposes and intentions of these pieces of legislation, tobacco smoke as such is not considered a product. we have two approaches. on the one hand, in the consultation document we are to bring forward on the smoke-free environment, we shall ensure that we refer to the classification of ets as a carcinogen – the one made by who, the us, germany and finland, so that we give the right information. at the same time, as components and ingredients of the smoke are already classified under european legislation as carcinogens – such as arsenic, butadiene, benzene, nitrogen oxides and other oxides – we shall ensure that we make reference to that as well. therefore, legally we cannot say at this point that ets is a carcinogen, but we can say that ets contains components and substances which are carcinogens. i think the message is quite strong. this is what we can do in the immediate future. however, in the mean time and in the long run, we hope to find ways and explore the possibilities of how we can use or amend in that respect european legislation so that we have the possibility of classifying ets as such as a carcinogen. this can be done both by exploring amendments to our legislation. there is also an ongoing debate now on the review of the legislation on carcinogens in the workplace, and perhaps we should consider including that as well. that would apply to the workplace, but it would be a first step. in conclusion, we will present every possible aspect in the paper which will be published soon – before the end of the year. however, in the meantime we will look at how to improve our existing legislation to ensure that we also have the legal competence to classify ets as such as a carcinogen.
the commission has already done so. you will understand that in view of the fact that in europe passive smoking kills 10,000 people a year, i am not particularly happy with your explanation. however, i understand that there are loopholes in the law. but if i understand this correctly, you're here to close those gaps. if i think about how we have turned the whole of european food policy upside down in one or two years with the bse crisis, with the vague suspicion of danger, then we should really be more active on this question where there are actually facts, which is about 10,000 deaths a year. we must inform you that my group will certainly try to put forward an own-initiative report in this direction to support you.
member of the commission. definitely, i agree. i could also point to the problems mentioned in a report today, in the united kingdom press i think, that are caused to the respiratory system and to the lungs and breathing problems caused by passive smoking. we also know that it causes heart problems. our target, as you will realise from the paper we are to produce, is a smoke-free environment in the european union. all these arguments help us to move in that direction. we will continue striving to achieve that target, but in the meantime we will explore what amendments are needed to our legislation so that we can proceed with the classification ourselves. member states can do it and other international organisations can do it, so i do not see why the european union should not be able to do it as well.
member of the commission. i am afraid not. i do not know who would want to fly in such conditions. i conducted a small poll myself. i asked smokers if they would fly on a smoke-filled plane and they said ‘no’. as you know, there is no community legislation on banning smoke on planes. it is the member states that decide on that. therefore it will remain the competence of the member states. given the recent messages from germany regarding promoting a smoke-free environment, i am hopeful that they will look into that and that special legislation will come into force in 2007.
member of the commission. i am sure you know i have views on that, but i do not want to anticipate the outcome of the consultation process that will be launched very soon on smoke-free environments. based on that we will see what will be the next steps we can take at european level. i am very much encouraged that one member state after another is introducing smoking bans in public places. lithuania and slovenia recently took similar decisions, and germany will also do so in the near future. however, for the european community as a whole, the commission will await the outcome of the consultation process before deciding what steps to take. as i said in my hearing before the committees in parliament, my target would be to have a smoke-free europe and to protect all citizens from passive smoking, not just in some member states. my personal view is that just separating smokers from non-smokers is not enough and does not offer sufficient protection. if we really want to achieve benefits for all we have to go for full smoking bans. nevertheless i look forward to parliament’s contribution to the consultation process.
question no 42 by mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0599/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: measures to increase the viability of smes in 2005, 140 000 companies went bankrupt in the eu-15, with 1.5 million jobs at risk. in the same year, there was a significant increase (54,55%) in the number of greek smes filing for bankruptcy in greece compared to 2004. what immediate measures will the commission take to help smes in this situation?
vice-president of the commission. as i said, we do not have the competence to deal with this issue at european level. we cannot therefore legislate and we cannot act in international contexts. the only thing we can do is what i have described to you: to ensure that better legal conditions are created through cooperation, coordination and exchange of experience in the member states. as i said, this has already happened in some countries, some are still in the process of doing so, and some are still unsatisfactory. i can tell you today that we will be dealing with this issue in particular in the preparation of the next annual report on the implementation of the lisbon strategy, with particular attention to those countries where insolvency law still represents an obstacle to growth and employment.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i am not sure i can see the connection between your question and the problem of insolvency law which is being discussed here. i am, however, able to answer your question. the commission is fully committed to doing everything in its power to ensure that the services directive is adopted in accordance with the compromise reached in the european parliament.
vice-president of the commission. you will understand that this question needs to be examined, because i would be bound by this answer to institutions for which i am not directly responsible. let me put it a little more generally: i believe that the instruments we have at our disposal to mitigate the effects of sudden structural change can also be used in such cases. i could also imagine creative financial instruments in individual cases. but that really needs to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. the problem here is that european legislation on this subject is not possible in the framework we have today.
question no 43 by mr andersson (h-0626/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: industrial policy an integrated european industrial policy is welcome. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the competitiveness of the community's industry. competitiveness is of course important for the development of industry, but it would have been desirable to have paid more attention to the employment aspects. how will the commission integrate employment policy into the integrated industrial policy?
vice-president of the commission. the competitiveness of europe's manufacturing sector is the key to growth and employment in a globalised world. the proposals for a modern industrial policy put forward by the commission are designed precisely to exploit, and even further expand, the employment potential of european industry. there is therefore a direct link between employment policy and industrial policy. i'm grateful for the question, because it gives me the opportunity to make something clear: the industrial policy i support, and the commission supports me, is not an industrial policy which represents the interests of shareholder value, but an industrial policy which is about securing high-quality industrial jobs in europe in the long term. the main objective of the policy i support is to provide people with jobs in sufficient numbers and of good quality. contrary to what was once thought in europe, we are now more convinced than ever that we cannot achieve this goal without a strong industrial base in europe, that is to say, without a strong, efficient and competitive manufacturing industry. i would also like to draw your attention to some of the aspects of our policy which deal specifically with the question of the link between industrial policy and employment policy. i would like to mention in particular the european globalisation adjustment fund, which the commission has proposed and which has now been set up. the funds provided for in the regulation are intended primarily to help workers to improve their skills or find a new job in the event of rapid structural change. i would like to point out that the commission is currently working on a policy to eliminate skills shortages in europe, to improve job content and to improve employment opportunities in a wide range of sectors. i would mention in particular the information and communication technology, mechanical engineering, textile and leather industries and various sectors of the raw materials and manufacturing industries. the european union also contributes to better functioning industrial relations and strongly promotes corporate social responsibility. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. it has a responsibility to society and that responsibility is above all for the workplace. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it can perhaps be summed up in a single sentence: modern industrial policy in europe is a very important and indispensable contribution to improving employment opportunities.
vice-president of the commission. i can only say, mr president, that we are in complete agreement. that is precisely what the commission is trying to do. i understand from your question that there is a greater need for information and communication. it seems to me that perhaps not all of europe is aware of what the essential content of our strategy is. i repeat: the basic strategy pursued by this commission is a strategy for growth and employment. that's the headline, that's the basic objective. industrial policy is one of the many instruments we use to achieve this goal of growth and employment.
vice-president of the commission. i am not in charge, as you know, and i fully respect the competence of my colleagues, and they respect mine. i can therefore only respond with caution and say that all the commission documents dealing with the need for reform in europe always point out that, at least in some areas and in some member states, labour markets are too rigid, too inflexible, and that more flexibility in labour markets - although always to be described very precisely on a case-by-case basis - would indeed lead to more entrepreneurship, more risk-taking and, as a result, more employment. so, basically, i can answer your question with a yes. more flexible labour markets are a necessary part of the answer to the structural problems we have in the 21st century.
vice-president of the commission. that's a very interesting debate we could have right now, and my answer is a resounding no. you'll be surprised how clearly i can answer that. it is a fundamental error to believe that a policy can be pursued which privileges the service sector over the manufacturing sector. the services sector cannot really be developed at all unless there is a strong manufacturing industry, unless there is a strong industry that buys these services. if you look at the economic reality in the member states with a particularly high share of services, you will notice that a very large proportion of these activities have been outsourced from industry to the service sector, but they contain precisely what they already contained. the thesis we are advocating is that without a strong and efficient industrial base it will not be possible to develop the services sector in the way that would be necessary to solve the employment problem in this way alone. i think we need to see both in a very close context.
question no 44 by mr seán ó neachtain (h-0638/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: reducing red tape for small businesses in europecan the commission list in a statement the various measures it has taken so far in 2005 and 2006 to reduce the amount of red tape facing small businesses within the european union?
vice-president of the commission. i am sorry to say, mr. deputy, that i completely disagree with you. the exact opposite is true. we have achieved more in the relatively short time since this initiative was launched than i could have ever imagined. firstly, as you know, we have, in a first step, withdrawn one third of all the legislation pending without replacement. secondly, we have completely changed the methods of legislation, we have introduced the mandatory full impact assessment, and this is already changing the quality of the legislation in force considerably. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. thirdly, the simplification programme is in full swing. i regret to say that the commission is a little faster than the other institutions in this respect. i am always grateful for criticism, but i would tolerate it even more easily if the simplification proposals which the commission has already put to the other institutions were decided by the council and parliament at the same pace as the commission is putting them to them.
vice-president of the commission. i can't answer that question without knowing the case. i ask you to provide me or the responsible colleague - i do not know in what area of jurisdiction this is supposed to have happened - with the relevant documents and then we will examine this. in any case, there is no commission policy which discriminates between smaller and larger companies. the exact opposite is true. the requirements for smes when applying for contracts and projects are significantly lower than those for large companies. small and medium-sized enterprises can also be supported at higher percentages than large enterprises. i am surprised that you mention this as an example from practice. it cannot be a rule, but a specific case which i am willing to examine. please provide us with the relevant information.
question no 45 will be answered in writing. question no 46 by mr paulo casaca (h-0597/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: figures on spring hunting in malta since malta's accession to the eu in 2004, thousands of european citizens have expressed their outrage at the maltese government's decision to allow spring hunting. meps have since urged the commission to ban spring hunting in malta as the derogation is contrary to the birds directive (79/409/eec oj l 103, 25.4.1979, p. 1). in its reply to question e-1318/06 in june 2006, the commission stated that it had serious doubts about malta's claim that the opportunities for hunting in autumn were minimal and that the derogation for spring hunting was therefore justified. however, the commission urged the maltese authorities to provide additional statistical data to support this claim. can the commission state whether it has received any (satisfactory) additional figures so far and, if not, when it will finally reach a decision on the compatibility of the derogation for spring hunting in malta to take up or finally close this case?
member of the commission. there will be a meeting between the maltese authorities and representatives of dg environment this month. the various issues will be discussed, including that of the maltese continuing to allow hunting of turtle doves and quails during the spring period. ways of ensuring compliance with the birds directive will be looked at. as to the report and the figures for 2005, they are due by the end of this year.
as they concern the same subject, the following questions will be dealt with together: question no 47 by caroline lucas (h-0604/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: study on the conservation aspect of the ban on imports of wild birds into the euin october last year, the commission introduced a ban on imports of captive wild birds into the eu. this decision was adopted for reasons of protection of human health. however, this trade should also be banned because it seriously damages sustainability and leads to collapses in the populations of many wild birds. with an estimated two million birds imported into the eu each year, the commission can only be congratulated for having helped to save more than one million birds since october with its decision. asked about the impact of this trade on conservation, commissioner dimas assured the environment ministers in december 2005 that the commission would examine the impact of this trade from a conservation perspective. however, it appears that the commission has not initiated such a study. can the commission explain why this has not been done and when it intends to honour its promise? question no 48 by mr bowis (h-0674/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: prohibition on imports of wild birdscan the commission carry out a thorough investigation into the effects of a temporary ban on imports of wild birds using data from all member states? illegal trade is difficult to track, but it has been estimated to involve huge numbers of protected wild-caught birds, and the argument that a total ban on wild birds would lead to black trade and an increase in illegally imported birds has been repeatedly raised by opponents of a trade ban. initial analyses of data collected since october 2005 (when the temporary ban was imposed) and published in a new report by the royal society for the protection of animals/eurogroup for the protection of animals show that the illegal trade has decreased and that the fears are not justified.
member of the commission. that is a question for my colleague, mr kyprianou. however, the obvious answer is avian flu and the ban which we have implemented for health reasons. that ban is a temporary one. it has to be extended until the end of december, and will perhaps be extended into next year, depending on developments in avian flu. in this particular case the united states is following a different policy, though the result is perhaps the same. they have a ban with derogations, while we may permit imports, but on a case-by-case basis.
member of the commission. world conservation of certain bird species is affected by international trade. such species could be proposed for listing under the cites convention, depending on the appendices. trade for commercial purposes is then prohibited or regulated by a permit and monitoring system. there is a certain way of deciding this under the cites provisions. species are only listed if specific conservation and trade criteria are fulfilled. where these criteria are fulfilled, the commission would support such listing. any such listing is subject to a vote in cites and the necessary majority might not always be attainable. we should remember that we must act in compliance with the law and meet our obligations under the cites convention and we cannot do otherwise if a vote is taken. exporting countries are also involved and if we do not act in accordance with the law for a certain species, we may encounter problems for other species, such as reptiles or corals or other animals.
question no 49 by mr carnero gonzález (h-0620/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: letter of formal notice to the madrid city council and the autonomous community of madrid criminal proceedings in connection with the construction of the underground section of the m-30 in april this year, the european commission sent a letter of formal notice to the madrid city council and the autonomous community of madrid in the context of a criminal case concerning the non-compliance with directive 85/337/eec oj l 175, 5.7.1985, p. 40 in the construction of the underground section of the m-30 on the basis of the file opened by the commission in response to the request p-0494/04 oj c 84 e, 3.4.2004, p. 415. the two-month period within which the madrid city council and the autonomous community of madrid were to send the commission the explanations they considered appropriate has now expired. have these statements been submitted to the commission? if not, what steps does the commission intend to take? if so, what are the contents of these statements? what is the commission's position on this?
member of the commission. i shall be as brief as possible. i would like to say that the commission opened this investigation after you asked a question on the issue. the dimension and complexity of the project is such that it required several exchanges of information between the commission and the spanish authorities in order to gather all the factual and legal information needed for the commission to properly and duly investigate the case. we will now perhaps need to obtain more information regarding the opening of the procedures. we came to the conclusion that the m-30 ring road project was not subject to a proper impact assessment pursuant to council directive 85/337/eec on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, in particular with regard to some of the subprojects into which the m-30 ring road project is divided. there has also been a failure to produce an assessment of the cumulative effects of those projects. that is the main problem. the project was split into 19 subprojects. for some subprojects there are impact assessments, but not for all, and there is no overall impact assessment for the whole project. that is what we consider to be a breach of the directive.
questions 50 and 51 will be answered in writing. questions 52 and 53 are not dealt with, since the subjects in question are already on the agenda for this part-session. questions 54 to 58 will be answered in writing.
question no 59 by mr bernd posselt (h-0609/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: christians in turkey what is the current legal status of non-islamic religious communities, especially christians, in turkey, particularly as regards freedom of religion, the right to form active bodies, the building of houses of worship and community centres, and the training of young priests? does the commissioner consider that turkey is already fully complying with the copenhagen criteria in the areas of democracy and the rule of law in this context?
member of the commission. on 20 june 2006, i had an exchange of views with the committee on foreign affairs. i shared with that committee the commission’s concerns regarding the lack of momentum as regards political reforms in turkey for the moment concerning, for instance, the issue raised by mr posselt. the commission had hoped that the opening of accession negotiations would give a more tangible impetus to the reform process. as regards the difficulties faced by non-muslim and muslim religious minorities, there is clearly a lack of progress so far. in practice, non-muslim religious communities continue to encounter significant problems: they lack a legal personality, face restricted property rights and interference in the management of their foundations, and are not allowed to train clergy. the commission would also mention that the alevi community experiences difficulties in terms of recognition of places of worship, representation in relevant state bodies as well as in compulsory religious education. moreover, the draft law on foundations, currently pending in the turkish parliament – and for too long – would only address some of these difficulties, namely the property regime for some of the communities, although not all of them. the commission has repeatedly urged the turkish authorities and the turkish grand national assembly to amend the draft law on foundations to bring it into line with relevant european standards.
i thank you very much for your good answer. i would like to ask you again, in concrete terms, whether the turkish side has also replied to you and whether it has made any statements as to the time frame within which it plans to adopt an appropriate legal arrangement. or is this postponed until after the turkish elections, or not at all?
member of the commission. the freedom of religion and worship is another key issue and we have raised it a number of times with the turkish government. we expect to see not only reflection but also concrete action in order to open the halki seminary, which is very important for this particular religious community.
question no 60 by mr sajjad karim (h-0624/06) subject: the situation in the middle east subject: isolation of northern cyprusin 2004, the eu committed itself to supporting the economic development and european integration of northern cyprus. the reduction of the economic gap between the two sides would also reduce the cost of reunification for greek cypriots and the dependence of turkish cypriots on turkey. turkey's accession and the un process to overcome division should be complementary and not contradictory. could the commission therefore explain what the eu is doing to commit itself to proceeding with the trade regulation within a specific timeframe and to release the funds provided for in the aid to northern cyprus regulation to be used for the harmonisation of the acquis, the reform of the civil service, the rehabilitation of the port of famagusta and the financing of a census in the north? to introduce a new financing instrument for northern cyprus and to establish a branch of the commission delegation in the north to monitor the allocation of funds for technical assistance and the harmonisation of the acquis; revise current proposals for direct trade to include the inclusion of northern cyprus in the eu customs union with turkey, a change in the 'green line' regime and a joint management of the port of famagusta with turkish cypriots, and ensure that turkish cypriots are adequately represented in the eu institutions?
member of the commission. thank you for providing us with those detailed observations concerning economic growth in the turkish cypriot community. i am glad if the green line regulation and the facilities it opens up for intra-island trade are improving the economic situation of the turkish cypriot community. we want to improve the working of the green line regulation. at the same time we are working very hard to unblock the situation concerning direct trade and to get all parties committed to resuming negotiations on the comprehensive settlement to reunify cyprus.
member of the commission. thank you for your question, mr evans. our view on how to end the economic isolation of the turkish cypriot communities is very clear: we want to execute the financial assistance programme now and we want to facilitate a solution for direct trade, possibly with accompanying measures. at the same time, we trust that this will create confidence so that at some point – hopefully soon – we can resume talks, under the un umbrella, on a comprehensive settlement leading to the reunification of cyprus.
questions which have not been dealt with for reasons of time will be answered in writing (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i hope that with this green paper we will finally be sending a signal for improved mental health in the european union. increased political awareness of the mental well-being of european citizens is long overdue. i think it is a serious omission, however, that neither the report of the committee on the environment nor the commission's proposal contains a comprehensive analysis of the causes. we know that pollution, poor nutrition, food allergies affect our physical and mental well-being. the effects of toxic chemicals on hormonal balance are evident. the nervous system disorders caused by environmental toxins and pesticides, and the relationship between attention deficit disorder and food intolerance, are finally in need of urgent analysis. we also know, for example, that gifted children and adolescents are mistakenly admitted to psychiatric hospitals because they are not recognized as gifted. this is another issue we need to address more. this is why i am concerned about the risk that the pharmaceutical industry will jump on this bandwagon and simply market drugs as the only solution. we need to face the problem that instead of further medicalisation and pathologisation of life cycles, a comprehensive approach to analysis and treatment is needed. it's not possible that children who are healthy, who are vibrant, who were once considered perfectly healthy, are now diagnosed with attention deficit disorder or zappel-philipp syndrome and are being treated with medication, it's not possible that adolescents are exposed to high levels of violence in the media and then labeled as mentally ill and treated with medication. we also have to ask ourselves if in our consumer society, there is a guarantee of happiness, and if it is not a false signal that every mood, every grief process that we have to go through naturally, must be treated with antidepressants. so my concern is that with this green paper, and also a white paper, we may be taking the wrong course here. we must analyse the causes and not rely on medication alone. the demand by parliament that medicines be used as a last resort when the causes of mental illness have been sufficiently elucidated must be at the very centre of attention, and we must not become mere handlers for the pharmaceutical industry and for the further pathologisation and medicalisation of life cycles and processes.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. our greatest asset is undoubtedly our health, both physical and mental. the focus of health policy has been and is all too often physical health. it is tangible, often visible, and often better to treat. moreover, maintaining physical health is costly, and many of the options available today are unaffordable. our health care system, from prevention to aftercare, is blowing up the public purse. it is not the intention of this report, for which i congratulate john bowis, that the european union should become active in the field of health. that is a matter for the member states and should remain so. but we support the commission's green paper, which is a discussion on the importance of mental health in the european union, a discussion on the need for a strategy and on possible priorities. we now know that good mental health is a prerequisite for good economic performance. but we must ask questions and seek answers. the question is, who is mentally ill? why do 13% of europeans seek professional help in this area? why do so many people in the european union commit suicide? the figures have been given; the hearing said 58,000 a year. why is society so sick? what are the causes? is our society in general too demanding? and then the big question: where do the disadvantaged people go? the discussion must be held to create awareness. one thing is certain: we also need to bring about social change to prevent these diseases. we know that it is difficult to deal with the harshness and competition of professional life. but it is much better to endure when one has a resting-place and a place to retreat. i see the family above all, offering the opportunity to rest and refuel. but families need help and support to fulfill all the important roles they are supposed to play in society. one thing is certain: humanity cannot be decreed by law, but it can and must be created so that humanity and health can grow in body and soul. so let us support our families, and if that is the intention of the report, then we have thought a lot of good.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i'll join john bowis in his best wishes. he is proving once again that health policy is a passion for him and not a duty. successful politics and successful psychotherapy have one thing in common. both require a great deal of openness, honesty, patience and commitment. we are debating an interesting, little-noticed and widespread issue in our european community: mental health. according to the who definition, health is a state of physical, mental and social well-being. in this order, the three objectives mentioned above are also realistic to achieve. when we look at mental health, we have to say that we have a dramatic increase in mental illness in the union. both pathogenetically and molecularly, we have a very colorful picture of disease patterns, causes, diagnoses and treatments. to name just a few: depression, schizophrenia, borderline psychosis, bulimia, anorexia, phobias, neuroses and mania. i do not want to go into toxicological and environmental causes here, that would be a separate dossier. i want to show how we as the european union can help in the context of prevention, how we can reduce the suffering of the sick, how we can detect the precursors of the disease in time and thus prevent the outbreak. just a few numbers: one in four will get sick; there are 58,000 suicides out of ten times that number of attempts, and suicide has something difficult, something demonic, something elusive about it, because we feel obligated to prevent it. mental disorder means stigma, mental illness is often associated with feelings of inferiority, mental institutions have often been abused for political purposes in the history of europe. we have the opportunity to call on our national governments to do more than they have done before. with this call we are not interfering with subsidiarity, but we want to give direction and to show a pan-european approach to more human dignity and less discrimination, e.g. healthy families as the basis for the upbringing of children, equal opportunities throughout the union, both within europe and within national borders. a strategy must include nationwide and local treatment options. a holistic treatment is required, i.e. body, soul and social environment. forced treatment can only be considered as ultima ratio, and alcohol, drug and medication abuse must be included and validated in an overall approach. the emphasis here is on prevention. today we are opening a new chapter in this report, which we hope will be followed up in a white paper shortly.
deputy writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the subject we are discussing today is one of the most important pre-legislative projects to be undertaken in the european union during this parliamentary term, and i am convinced that it is the most important. it is therefore all the more regrettable that we are debating this subject again just before midnight, while other important - in quotation marks - important - questions are being discussed in this house at the best times. in the margin: this is further evidence that parliamentary reform is urgently needed. but let me get to the oral questions. the european parliament has consistently strongly supported the project of a common frame of reference in - by my count - a total of six resolutions since the early 1990s, for the simple reason that we, together with the legal practitioners - the lawyers and judges of the european union - believe that further steps towards common principles in civil law are necessary to make many european legislative provisions, such as the e-commerce directive, even practicable. in litigation, particularly between consumers and traders, where small claims are involved, it is practically impossible for lawyers and judges to apply 25 different legal systems in the european union in parallel, and if you count scotland, 26 different legal systems in the european union, even more so in the strange juxtaposition of the principle of country of origin and the principle of country of destination, as is the case, for example, with the e-commerce directive. that is why we need a higher common standard, and i am quite prepared to use the harmonization standard. there is no dispute about that, there is a broad consensus in this house. this is also the opinion of the main lawyers and one of the reasons why the ccbe, the association of european lawyers, has planned a conference in rome to be held in the autumn of this year and which will support the project ex post facto. it is therefore crucial for us to have not just a framework of reference that is exclusively concerned with consumer contract law issues, but a framework that covers all aspects of civil law in principle. this is a very crucial point in order to be able to decide later on all the options for what this reference framework can become. this depends, of course, on the quality of the reference framework. but we would like to keep the options open until the commission presents the final consultation document and then we can make a judgment on it, just like others. it is also important that we abandon the sectoral approach to civil law and adopt a holistic approach. the reason for many of the contradictions in eu civil law today is that it has not adopted this holistic approach, but has always looked at individual problems and not at the whole. a reference framework also presupposes that the network will in principle continue to function and operate as it has been done by the commission so far. as rapporteur on this subject in the legal affairs committee, i can say that all the groups are in principle in agreement on this issue and that there are broad majorities in this house such as i have rarely found anywhere else. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. we know that the three commissioners who are dealing with this subject - mr kyprianou, mr frattini and mr mccreevy - have been thinking or have been thinking in recent days about how to take the work forward. we have therefore deliberately placed this oral question - which you may have already read in the draft - in connection with the corresponding resolution, which will certainly be adopted by a large majority in this house on thursday, in order to make it clear once again, on our part, that is, on the part of parliament, how much we support this project. we hope that the decisionmaking situation as it exists in this house will also serve as a guide for you as the commission in the further development and treatment of this subject. the commission and parliament have always worked closely together and supported each other on this issue. we ask that it remain so, in the interests of the development of the european union and also in the interests of the law in the european union, which must also be manageable and practical for the common man. that's why this project has to go on. we ask the commission to continue to support it as vigorously as it has done and to use the answer to this question to make this publicly clear here in the house.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to stress what mr swoboda and mr lagendijk have said. the commission has already asked all the questions, but i would like to go into detail on a few points. we have four different representations in kosovo: we have the agency for reconstruction, which has done a great job. we have the so-called fourth pillar within the framework of the un, where we are responsible for economic matters as well as privatization. we have a delegation down there and, last but not least, we have a representative of the council. all this in little kosovo. you have to wonder how all this is organized, how all these parts can even communicate with each other. there is now - as we saw when we were down there - this eu planning team that is there to ensure the rule of law. so i find that very narrow-minded. the tasks ahead of us are much greater. it is not going to do justice to the magnitude and significance of what we have planned for next year if we are going to be so narrow-minded. we must try to build capacity. we must help build up the civil administration. we must ensure that minority and human rights are respected. and how do we do that when there are so many players of our colour on the ground, as well as the osce, the ombudsman and others? the un, which is also representing us all down there, has certainly done good through unmec in recent years, but it has also made many mistakes. it is probably not possible to do otherwise in the context of the establishment of civil and local administrations. would we do better than that? we have to be very careful not to let the commission and the council of ministers get involved in the negotiations. how much influence do we as the european union have on the kosovo police forces? we know they want to turn it into a military organization. to what extent do we go beyond mere superficial contacts with government agencies? what role will european forces possibly play in kosovo in the near future? i know these are all questions we're waiting to answer, questions you probably aren't ready to answer yet, but i want to tell you that i personally fear we're not adequately prepared. if we go to the neighbouring country of bosnia and herzegovina, we see how difficult it is and how many problems we still have to deal with in bosnia and herzegovina. we have a representative who was - and still is - omnipotent and who could do everything that can be done in a democracy only by means of democratic legislation. the problem is that we have a situation down there now that is not up to the new challenges because people were not used to taking responsibility for themselves. what we need in kosovo is help for the self-help of the kosovars. and by kosovars i do not mean only albanians, but also serbs who are native to kosovo and who we should expect to be integrated into the institutions. i simply do not see the need to put pressure on the serbian government in belgrade to allow the serbs in kosovo to participate. that's the problem. if we listen to oliver ivanovic in serbia, we know that he would like to, if he could. i think there is simply no pressure on the serbian government to give the serbs on the ground the opportunity to build on their future. because they will have to do so at some point, and then serbia will no longer be responsible for them! i would like to stress what mr swoboda said. this region will become part of the european union together with its neighbours. we must therefore ensure that they are able to solve these problems, that they respect human rights and minority rights, that with our help they develop all the administrative skills they need to adopt and implement our legislation, and then, together with neighbours montenegro and serbia, find a smooth path to the european union. i very much hope that we will be able to provide that help. i have a small doubt about that.
president of the council. the european union is well aware that the process of kosovo's status is a major challenge for the international community. a positive and lasting solution is in the european union's own interest. the process on kosovo's status is led by un special envoy martti ahtisaari. the eu is fully involved in this work through the eusr. the eu, and in particular the presidency, has regular direct contacts with the eu, as was the case with special envoy ahtisaari, who last reported on the situation to the eu foreign affairs council on 17 july. the un special envoy will continue to seek the active participation of both belgrade and pristina in negotiations on key issues such as de-centralization and religious and cultural heritage, as well as economic issues and minority rights. direct discussions and expert consultations will continue. the parties' views remain divergent, but the process has been useful in clarifying the parties' positions and in helping to establish a common basis for a future solution. the european union fully supports these efforts. the european union will have a leading role in the economic aspects of the process through the eu representative and the commission. the eu welcomes the decision of the un secretary-general's special envoy to engage in direct political dialogue on the status of kosovo and calls on both parties to engage in a new phase of negotiations in a constructive spirit. the european union fully supports the joint efforts of the un secretary-general's special representative for kosovo and the kosovo interim self-government authorities to implement the standards. it is also necessary to prepare for a gradual transition from the reform process under these standards to the reform process required by european integration. the eu's involvement in kosovo after the status settlement will comprise three elements: the union's participation in any future civilian presence, a possible civilian crisis management operation concerning the rule of law, in particular the police and the judiciary, and an eu presence aimed at supporting kosovo's european perspective. preparations are under way in all three regions. an eu planning team has been established under the eu joint action and has already been deployed to kosovo to prepare for the above-mentioned possible civilian rule of law crisis management operation. the future role of the union in kosovo is being prepared in conjunction with the european commission. this is done to ensure the coherence of the european union's activities by all means available. the future international presence in kosovo will not be some kind of eumik. after a solution has been reached and unmik has been gradually dismantled, kosovo's own institutions should be responsible for running things themselves. local ownership and responsibility should be in kosovo itself. international action should help kosovo's own institutions to take full responsibility for kosovo's affairs. the european union is playing a very important role in the implementation of the status settlement. the eu will contribute to the forthcoming international presence and civilian crisis management operation and support the consolidation of stability and socioeconomic development in kosovo. the future role of the eu in kosovo will naturally also require substantial funding. the union is currently working on how to ensure its appropriate participation. the eu and kosovo share the objective of ensuring that kosovo becomes a reliable partner in the process of moving closer to the european union together with other neighbouring regions. the key factor here is the creation of a democratic and multi-ethnic kosovo with a good basis for economic development and deeper integration.
member of the commission. mr president, kosovo is indeed a part of europe. it is not our back yard, but our front yard, and in the long term, a future eu territory. the european union has a major responsibility for the future of kosovo. in our joint paper on the eu’s future role in kosovo, presented in july this year, javier solana and i made it clear that the eu will have to take the lead in international presence after the status process has been concluded. our paper analysed the nature, size and responsibilities of a future international engagement; it also set out the eu’s role after the status settlement and practical means to realise kosovo’s future european perspective. i fully agree with minister lehtomäki and those meps who said that unmik will not be replaced by any kind of eumik, but rather a leaner, more streamlined international presence or international civilian mission. the joint paper, which was endorsed by the council, supports the work of president martti ahtisaari. achieving a negotiated solution on the kosovo status issue cannot be taken for granted. the united nations status envoy needs our full support to put forward a comprehensive package that will allow the un security council to decide on the way ahead. the key issue at stake is the protection of minorities, in particular of the kosovo serb minority. the success of the status process will depend to a considerable degree on the ability and willingness of the eu to respond rapidly and concretely in support of an overall solution. the eu needs to give a clear signal that it will stay in kosovo to play a key role in the implementation of the status settlement and to support its long-term eu perspective through the stabilisation and association process. the powers of the future international presence in kosovo should be limited to overseeing the implementation of the status settlement. all other powers currently exercised by unmik should, as a rule, be handed over to kosovo’s authorities, so that they can govern with full responsibility and full accountability. after the status settlement, our objective is to ensure that kosovo becomes a reliable partner, progressing towards the eu together with the rest of the region. the eu will need to continue supporting kosovo’s government in setting up a modern, open, market-oriented and business-friendly environment, based on eu-compatible structural reforms. finally, as members of the budgetary authority, you know that stabilising kosovo will come at a cost. i fully agree with minister lehtomäki that we will have to make appropriate provisions in the future to be able to cover this cost. the commission is working with the world bank and the local authorities to prepare a ‘kosovo development plan and strategy’ for the medium term. after the status settlement, we will organise a donors’ conference to mobilise the international community’s support for the people of kosovo. let us remember that it is better to cover the costs of economic and social development than to send more soldiers to the balkans. (applause)dear friends, in that respect, the keys are in your hands, and in those of the council. as mr poettering and other eminent meps are present here this morning, i would like to make an important point: the cuts to the commission’s staff budget proposed by the council would make this task in kosovo and the western balkans simply impossible. (applause)the council’s plan would lead to the disappearance of 1700 posts at the commission, starting with 170 posts in 2007. please do not ask the eu and the commission to do more in ensuring external and internal security – be it in kosovo, lebanon or the canary islands. if our hands are tied we cannot do as you ask. (applause) eu policy and aid does not come from heaven: it needs competent staff to carry it out. it also has a cost. i have a special plea for the finnish presidency. the current united nations status envoy comes from finland, and i have special responsibility on behalf of the commission concerning the western balkans and kosovo. i hope the council and the presidency do not make our task of working for peace and stability in the western balkans and kosovo impossible. i call on parliament to correct this budgetary dead-end. i also call on the presidency to solve this dilemma soon, without unnecessary delay, using the famous finnish common sense, and not stubbornness this time. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the milosevic regime, through 12 years of terror, mass expulsions and attempted ethnic cleansing, has created a situation in kosovo where today over 90% of the population can no longer imagine being connected to serbia in any institutional form. this is the reality we must assume, and this was the reality that existed when nato intervened. that is to say, we cannot ignore the fact that we are facing an immediate clarification of the status issue and that this clarification will be the state independence of kosovo. on the other hand, we are currently witnessing a policy in belgrade which should alarm us. the serbian politicians know exactly what the status issue is really like, but they do not dare to admit this to their own public. that means they're trying to make themselves look like victims. they want the international community to 'rob' kosovo from them, so to speak, in order to be able to present this later as an act against the serbian people. if you read the information service of the serbian church, you will find that the bishops responsible there write quite openly that the serbian government should not participate in clarifying the status issue, because this would create opportunities to take back the country at a favorable moment in world history. that's what it says. that shows how much of a temper there is still in the whole question. on the other hand, it shows the plight of minorities in kosovo. all this makes it clear that a massive presence of the european union and the international community will be needed there for a long time to come. so we need two elements: firstly, a quick clarification of the status issue. i agree with sarah ludford that the most important thing is to combat unemployment among this very young people, but no one will invest in kosovo until the status issue is settled. that's why we've wasted too much time here. i believe that a rapid solution to the status problem is the precondition for economic recovery and for the elimination of unemployment and thus the main danger of radicalism. on the other hand, we need to condition this independence in the long and medium term, especially with regard to minority issues, and i believe that we must be expected to be present here for years to come. since unmik has unfortunately failed to fulfil its role in many areas, there are very high expectations for a european administration in kosovo in particular. i agree with the commissioner that we should give the people there as much self-government as possible. we are talking far too little about and with the local government and the local elected officials, who often disappear behind the international appointees. but on the other hand, our presence will be necessary to ensure democracy, the rule of law and peace in a strategically important point of europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i have the impression that it was the right time to put this parliamentary question at the end of the delegation's visit, because there are still many steps to be taken to be prepared for the tasks ahead. i am particularly disappointed by the lack of concrete proposals put before us today by the council. it is a litmus test for us: how is the european union managing to deal with the situation in our front yard - as you, commissioner rehn, have aptly described it today? i think it is right to say that we do not need to replace unmik with eumik. but i also know from my own experience that we still need a long partnership monitoring process in many areas: in the civil administration at all levels, in the police, in the functions of the judiciary and, last but not least, in the building of a democratic civil society, which unfortunately is only in its infancy. i fully support commissioner rehn's view that we are not prepared financially and personally to meet the challenge from next year. i therefore urge the council to listen to us and to appeal to the member states to help us to make up for this by bilateral agreements and the provision of specialist staff. we must be prepared for the fact that in the near future the countries of western europe will be carrying out a great many deportations of people who are now living in western europe to kosovo. are we prepared for this in any way?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the present situation in kosovo has its roots in the nato war of aggression against yugoslavia, in which many eu countries took part. in this war, civilians were killed by bombs from eu states. why is the serbian minority in kosovo now under threat? this is also linked to this situation and the eu countries took a completely one-sided position at the time. secondly, deportations are taking place to kosovo, and this in a situation on the ground which is totally intolerable for many people. more deportations are expected to follow. the eu commission should also make it clear that this is not acceptable. joachim rücker has been appointed as head of unmik. i do not know whether this was a good idea, because in his previous role he was mainly responsible for privatisations in kosovo which did not bring anything to the people there. my question is: how does the european commission envisage the status of kosovo in concrete terms? i think what i have heard so far is very inadequate. mr rehn, you were right when you said that money should be put into social and economic development rather than military. i'll back that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the question of kosovo's status must be resolved as quickly as possible, in the interests of kosovo, but also in the interests of the european union. but the prerequisite for this is that we find ways of credibly protecting minorities, and all minorities, because this is still the case - as our numerous trips have shown - and there are fears. the events of recent years have also shown that these fears are still justified. we must take that into account. that is why it is necessary that the european union continue to be involved in this area. firstly, the establishment of the police force, which is of the utmost importance. secondly, the establishment of the judiciary and the administration, because, commissioner rehn, i agree with you that funds must be made available. but the most important conditions for kosovo's economic development are peace, stability and functioning institutions, and we must focus our special efforts on these. the question then is who will be responsible for security in the military field after kosovo's independence. i would imagine that something similar to what happened in bosnia and herzegovina would happen here, namely that kfor would be replaced by european forces. i put that question to the prime minister when we were there. his answer showed me that this question had not been thought of before. a stronger involvement of the european union in this area would also be in line with our security policy, or a security policy which i support. it is important that we focus on our geographical neighbourhood in the current state of our security policy, and our main task remains the stabilisation of the balkans.
president of the council. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, and we are convinced that the european union must be able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the european union's new approach to the problem of kosovo. as has been pointed out many times in this debate, the precondition for a lasting solution is to be able to solve this minority issue, and it is a rather multifaceted problem. the presence of nato kfor is important for the time being, but now and in the future, special attention must be paid to close cooperation between military and civilian operations. the european union is preparing for a large-scale civilian crisis management operation in kosovo, among other things. it is so vast that it is unprecedented and therefore specifically addresses the police and the rule of law. the european union needs a very large number of experts from the member states to carry out this operation, and our challenge is to find this large pool of experts. the work of the civilian crisis management operation planning team is still ongoing, but the report is expected to reach the council working group at the end of this month. so, preparation is going on in many ways and in many different sectors, but surely we can also keep improving our running. the council's draft budget for next year has also been referred to here on several occasions, particularly as regards the improvement of the commission's human resources. the presidency is very committed to finding a solution that satisfies all parties, but the president must of course also listen to the views of other member states on this matter. secondly, i do not think the situation is as bleak as has been suggested, especially in the commissioner's very emotional speech. the council considers enlargement to be a clear priority and therefore will not propose any reductions in staffing for enlargement staff. in fact, this disgraced draft budget for next year will raise administrative costs by 3.4%. it must be admitted that the reductions envisaged for the period 2007-13 are very ambitious, but while the commission is also planning increases, particularly in relation to enlargement, the commission will in any case have more staff in 2013 than in 2007, even if we follow this ambitious path. so there's more staff in 2013 than next year anyway. we are committed to finding solutions that ensure that we have the staff to deal with the important issues. of course, this is a matter of course. finally, and with some relief, i can say - since the finnish sauna was mentioned here - that however well the internal coordination of the presidency on this matter goes, i am not going to go to the sauna with ahtisaari and rehn.
member of the commission. madam president, i am a bit disappointed with the conservative approach of ms lehtomäki in her interpretation of the sauna culture. i should like to thank you all for a very substantive and responsible debate, which clearly shows that this house fully supports the prospects for european integration of the western balkans and kosovo. it is very important now – as was underlined by several speakers – to firmly support the efforts to conclude the status process within the envisaged timetable. we will not gain anything from prolonging the process. it is also true that peace and appropriate institutions lay the foundation for better economic conditions and job creation, which kosovo desperately needs. an unemployment rate of 40% to 50% unfortunately produces a very fertile breeding ground for crime and corruption. we need to give the kosovars the tools to help themselves. legal certainty and a well-functioning business environment are necessary preconditions for making economic progress in kosovo. at the same time, there is another precondition: whatever the precise outcome of the status settlement, it must include treaty-making powers for kosovo. as mr kacin said, treaty-making powers are needed so that we can negotiate with kosovo and make it part of the stabilisation and association process. likewise, kosovo needs treaty-making powers in order to make deals and contracts with the international financial institutions, which is another precondition for making economic progress and improving the employment situation there. as to serbia, it is certainly a – if not the – key country for the stability of the western balkans. the best service that serbia can render the kosovo serbs is to participate very constructively in the talks to ensure that minorities are truly protected, once the outcome of the kosovo status settlement emerges. serbia has firm and tangible prospects of joining europe. for our part, we are willing to resume the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement even on the very same day as serbia achieves full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, which should lead to the arrest and transfer of radko mladic. it is in serbia’s hands and serbia can make this european aspiration a reality and release the tremendous economic, cultural and intellectual potential that exists in the country. i should like to correct one misunderstanding, which has not occurred here but often arises, namely the belief that the council and commission are competing in the western balkans. that is not the case at all. the council and commission are not competing, but cooperating fully and deeply for stability and democracy in the western balkans. we work very well in tandem with mr solana, as do our services. for instance, in relation to the rule of law, we need that cooperation because the rule of law – that is, the provisional training of judges and police – is a joint competence of the council, the member states and the commission. therefore, in order to use that joint competence sensibly, we need cooperation. that is what we have with mr solana and his people. as to mr wiersma’s question on resources, apart from kosovo there are other burning issues, such as lebanon. how successfully the resource question is resolved will now be up to you, as the budgetary authority. i am very grateful to the finnish presidency for its readiness to play a very constructive role in this very difficult matter. i fully agree that the stabilisation of the western balkans is the first and foremost priority of the evolving european security and defence policy. indeed, as mr lagendijk said, we cannot afford to fail in this test case.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the joint debate on:- council statement on albania and - recommendation by mr toomas hendrik ilves, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a council and commission decision on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part (a6-0246/2006).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the report by mr ilves shows a great deal of empathy, a great deal of understanding, but also the necessary rigor towards this young democracy in albania, and i thank him for this really good report. as many of you know, i have been following albania's journey from a long period of dictatorship to the european community for the past 14 years. i am therefore particularly pleased that we can approve this stabilisation and association agreement today. i welcome it, it is an important step towards a relationship of trust between albania and the eu. it will help the country and its politicians to achieve the necessary political, economic and institutional stability. progress along this path is very difficult. it can only be achieved by meeting the necessary standards as identified in the agreement. and this parliament in particular, and our committee on relations with parliament in particular, will monitor this progress very closely and continuously. as a good friend, we will also, as we have done for years, put our fingers in the wounds that may yet be discovered. the fight against corruption in albania has been launched, and i welcome that. but i also think that all political forces must give equal weight to this struggle. only in this way will he be truly successful in the long run. the unmasking and arrest of a number of criminal gangs in recent months is a very good result and encourages us to take further steps in this area. this has made it possible to catch and bring to justice more counterfeiters, drug dealers and the like. the government is doing an excellent job in education, securing a future for the large number of young people in albania. i very much hope that the government will take all necessary steps to ensure that these children can participate in the new european union education programmes after 2007. the government's efforts to attract investment to the country are good and necessary. but they also require urgent reforms in the administration and the judiciary. we also point out in our resolution that the blood feud which still exists in some parts of albania must be brought to an end. we are right to invoke our european values, which we hope will soon be the guiding principles of thought and action throughout albania. i must confess that some of the events of the summer months have been very strange to me. without going into any ugly details, i would like to stress that there is an urgent need for political dialogue and that political maturity is only proven through democratic behaviour. the european union must also be able to take action to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. albanian politicians are elected to solve problems in a democratic way and to constructively assume their respective roles - whether as government officials or opposition politicians. boycotts have not paid off in recent years and would not pay off today. the albanian people are sick of this kind of bullshit. it wants serious politicians who are seriously interested in solving the problems. the agreement reached by the political forces on the vexing issue of the electoral rolls is therefore welcome. for years the european union has also been paying a lot of money to ensure that these lists can finally be drawn up correctly. there are still the biggest problems. the forthcoming local elections must be able to rely on reasonably secure data in order to make the election result acceptable. the current conflict between the government and a private television station can, in my view, only be brought to a valid conclusion in full respect of the law. in conclusion, i would like to remind you that this house has long been committed to the necessary visa facilitation for albania and the other cis countries. we therefore strongly welcome albania's withdrawal agreements with the eu. albania is one of the few countries that have done so. we also call on the european governments to take immediate action, that is to say to facilitate the issuing of visas for students, academics and businesses. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. criminals either sneak in with visas or don't need them because they know other ways to cross the border. but the successful fight against crime in albania may also help european governments to finally leapfrog their shadow in the issuing of visas.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ilves, on behalf of our group. you have presented a very balanced and comprehensive report. we also congratulate albania and the european institutions. after decades of totalitarian rule, this country is indeed making great progress. this is the best proof for us that the process of integration into the eu is indeed a motor, a motivation for the implementation of human rights, the rule of law and also for encouraging economic development. we all know that this process is far from complete. the commission has already made a number of recommendations to the council and parliament on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. i would also like to remind you that as a european institution we need another partnership and accompanying process, which in turn requires financial and human resources. we have already pointed out in the debate on kosovo that our budget for 2007 to 2013 is not very encouraging in this respect. we also need further support in areas such as improving environmental conditions, sustainable energy and transport infrastructure and in establishing truly independent media. my colleagues have stressed this on several occasions. finally, i have high hopes that albania, thanks to its experience in negotiating a stabilisation and association agreement with the european union, will play a constructive role in the region. if you pass on this experience to your kosovar colleagues, it will help to stabilise the region as a whole.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a good sign that we are concluding the agreement with albania today, because today is the birthday of franz josef strauss. mr strauss was the first western politician to break through albania's isolation on a private trip. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. there has been no country in europe in the whole of modern times that has been so oppressed and isolated and that has suffered such a degree of persecution of any religion or freedom of thought - and this in a nation that played a significant role in european cultural history in the middle ages, that with skanderbeg stood up to the last great european freedom fighter against the ottomans, that also played a major role in the 19th and 20th centuries with the league of prizren, but was betrayed by europe at the berlin congress, a country that was one of the first victims of fascism and communism and is only now beginning to regain its place in europe. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. that is why it needs our full solidarity. this is not just the state, but also the infrastructure. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the unilateral dependence of kosovo on belgrade can only be reduced in the long term if it can also cooperate and communicate adequately across the border with its albanian and montenegrin neighbours. overcoming the consequences of the brutal forced isolation of this country is a great task for an entire generation, if not for generations. i must say that i admire the courage with which the government of sali berisha has tackled this task. i think prime minister berisha has learned from past mistakes and is approaching things in a different way. we are quite right to be optimistic, despite all the criticism we must make, and to give this country the back wind it deserves, given its tragic history but also its potential. it is a young country, a country with great economic potential, not least because of its young population, which is determined to take up a challenge, unfortunately excluded by god, with a new orientation and a multilingual approach.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. today is the third vote on the budgetary procedure in six months. i ask for your agreement to a rapid reply from this house to the council so that we do not lose time. i call on the council and ask it to begin discussions with parliament on the budgetary procedure. only if we start now - it is too late - can the financial regulation enter into force on time by the end of the year. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. the council's delay jeopardises the timely collection of aid and the easier and faster handling of aid procedures. i call for negotiations to begin. (applause from the centre)
president-in-office of the council. mr president, the latest middle east crisis in the summer is the first in which the european union has become the international actor on which the greatest hopes and expectations have been placed, in particular by the lebanese people and government but also, more widely, throughout that region. i am pleased to say that the eu has managed to live up to those expectations and to play an important, and even leading, role in putting a stop to the hostilities, in keeping the ceasefire and in the efforts made to move forward the political process needed to consolidate the peace. in august, the general affairs and external relations council held two extraordinary meetings. in our meeting on 1 august, we managed to reach an agreement on the conclusions. this was done in a very constructive atmosphere, contrary to some totally misleading press reports. the substance of those conclusions subsequently became the basis for united nations security council resolution 1701 which brought a ceasefire, outlined the political agreement needed to restore the full integrity and sovereignty of lebanon and created the new unifil mark 2 force needed to ensure implementation of the resolution. it was not the eu’s fault that it took so long for the resolution to be passed, while every day the conflict brought more unnecessary civilian casualties, suffering and devastation without anyone coming any nearer to fulfilling either the political or military goals for which they were fighting. indeed, the central lesson to be learned from this conflict is that there are neither military nor unilateral solutions to any of the outstanding issues and conflicts in the middle east. the role of the eu member states has remained central since the adoption of resolution 1701. at our second extraordinary council meeting on 25 august, in which the united nations secretary general kofi annan also participated, we were able to ensure that unifil can and will be brought up to strength and deployed as the eu member states responded to the united nations request by contributing up to 7000 troops. also at that meeting it was confirmed that france, and from next february italy, would have responsibility for leading the operation. unifil is not an eu operation and it is important that other members of the united nations, including, in particular, many islamic countries, are contributing to the operation. already, the first italian and additional french troops have been deployed. there is a need to move troops into the area quickly in order to avoid a security vacuum while the idf withdraws and the lebanese armed forces gradually deploy into southern lebanon. in order to restore peace and security, unifil’s mission is to ensure the withdrawal from southern lebanon and to help the lebanese government and army to extend their authority to that area and to all of lebanon. while the lebanese army is to carry out the disarming of hizbollah, unifil will also have an important task in ensuring the delivery of humanitarian aid, monitoring the ceasefire and being ready to respond if anyone tries to break the peace. the ceasefire has, notwithstanding some deplorable incidents, been respected. the lebanese government remains united and all the political parties, including hizbollah, have pledged their support for resolution 1701 and the political agreement it incorporates. the role of the european union in terms of humanitarian aid and the early recovery and reconstruction of lebanon has been remarkable. the donor conference in stockholm last week was a major success. the european union’s humanitarian aid response has been swift and significant. the total humanitarian aid pledged or effectively granted by the european community and member states is approximately eur 330 million, i.e. over a third of the total pledges made in stockholm. we are already in a position to focus more on early recovery and strengthening local capacities. all our efforts – the political agreement, reconstruction and support for the integrity and sovereignty of lebanon with the presence of a strong unifil – are vital for peace and stability in that country. it is also crucial that outside actors and neighbours support this. for that reason, we must be prepared to engage syria, which can either be a constructive partner or a spoiler. that will also determine the future of the eu’s relations with syria. in my own contacts with syria, as in meetings with others, we have welcomed syria’s stated intention and readiness to respect resolution 1701 and lend support to its implementation and, moreover, also to be constructive in a comprehensive middle east peace process. for all of us in the council, it has always been clear that there cannot be any sustainable stability and peace in lebanon, or elsewhere in the region, without a return to the peace process between israel and palestine that is based on the roadmap and its goal of the two-state solution, with israel living in peace and security with an independent and viable palestinian state as its neighbour. unfortunately, many aspects of the roadmap have, and continue, to come under attack. deadlock has existed since the palestinian elections in january, which our election observers, led by your colleague, ms de keyser, unequivocally assessed as free and fair. in order for the peace process to continue, it is vital that the people and constituent parties of palestine remain committed to non-violence, the recognition of israel and to putting a stop to all terrorist activities. we have had an uncertain situation in which the international community has had to suspend its direct assistance to the palestinian administration while trying to ensure that the humanitarian needs of the palestinians are met and their access to education and medical services is maintained. that has been the difficult task of the temporary international mechanism set up by the eu at the request of the quartet, and it has not been made any easier by israel’s refusal to the release tax and customs receipts now amounting to over usd 500 million that are due to the palestinian administration. however, as its name suggests, the temporary international mechanism is only an interim device. we need to break the deadlock. we need to have all the abducted israeli soldiers, the arrested palestinian legislators and members of the government, unconditionally released. we also need, above all, a broad-based palestinian government that is fully committed to respecting all the commitments entered into by the palestinian administration and which can act as a credible partner with which no one can refuse to negotiate. we do not need to reinvent the wheel for the peace process. all the requisite elements are well known and are to be found in the roadmap and other documents. but putting these in the right order remains a challenge. at our discussions at the gymnich held in lappeenranta last week we were in full agreement that the eu must now take an active role in initiating a return to the peace process. however, no matter in how united, cohesive and effective a manner the eu acts, it is obvious that we cannot achieve peace through our efforts alone. we need to work closely with all our partners in the quartet, and in particular with the united states, as well as with the arab league, whose renewed determination to engage in the process is to be welcomed. above all, we need, of course, to urge the parties themselves to come to the table and seriously engage in negotiations. for a long time people in the region have wanted nothing more than peace and security, and they have become increasingly frustrated by their leaders’ inability or even unwillingness to deliver this, thus fostering a climate which has allowed extremism to thrive. it is therefore necessary for the eu and others to entice, cajole, push and pressure the parties and to be prepared, where and when necessary, to engage on the ground as well. the eu is already doing that, with the approval of the parties, in the eu bam rafah mission and the eucopps mission in the territories. unfortunately, the rafah and karni border crossing points have effectively been closed for the past few months and israel has not responded to our repeated approaches to have them re-opened. in the future, we may also need to take on other new responsibilities as part of the quest for peace. the need for a new international conference on the middle east has been put forward by many. there is much support for that idea in the council, but there is also recognition that this is not something that can start immediately, before the parties have agreed to come to such a conference and before there is the prospect of such a conference bringing positive results that can further the peace process. the council will stay centrally engaged in the middle east peace process. we have made it clear that the high representative, javier solana, has the full support and mandate of the council, working together with the presidency and the commission, to do what needs to be done and to meet with whomsoever is appropriate in order to get the middle east peace process working and keep it working until we have reached a comprehensive peace settlement. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, the conflict in lebanon, the violence in the palestinian territories, the suffering of civilians in northern israel: these past months the prospect of a comprehensive peace has seemed further off than ever, and yet, paradoxically, these conflicts – especially the misery suffered by ordinary lebanese, ordinary israelis and ordinary palestinians – have once more highlighted the need for a negotiated regional solution. they are a stark and cruel reminder that security and stability cannot be imposed unilaterally without dialogue or diplomacy. this is a moment of distress and suffering in the middle east, but i believe it is also one of opportunity, and we have to seize that opportunity. it is specifically by mobilising the very considerable resources of the european union, from the political and security to the technical, economic and financial, and by deploying them in close cooperation with the rest of the international community, that we may be able to put the peace process back on its feet. as the president-in-office said, the european union is playing an unprecedented role. europe is fully engaged with lebanon and determined to play a strong role in supporting the implementation of security council resolution 1701 and in finding lasting peace for the region. eu member states are making a decisive contribution to the expanded unifil peacekeeping force in support of the rapid extension of the lebanese government’s authority throughout lebanon. the european union is at the forefront of diplomatic efforts to remove the continuing air and sea blockades of lebanon. from the outset of the conflict, the european commission has been very active on the ground, supporting our partners and their people when they most needed us. over the past six weeks, the commission has mobilised and coordinated a very important european response to the urgent needs caused by the conflict. from the second week of the conflict onwards, we provided rapid humanitarian assistance. i was glad and grateful to learn that parliament had agreed to our request to mobilise further resources from the emergency reserve. this will allow echo to continue its action in support of essential early recovery, notably for water, sanitation and housing, thus bringing our total humanitarian support to over eur 50 million. the commission also helped to coordinate and support evacuation efforts, providing eur 11 million in support of the evacuation of third-country nationals caught up in the conflict, in response to a request from the foreign minister of cyprus to provide urgent assistance to help launch this operation quickly. on the ground, the commission also played an important role in assessing the situation and setting up the first coordination exercise among donors. we are already working with the lebanese government, as well as with the united nations and the world bank, to ensure that in this post-conflict phase this coordination will be led and informed by the lebanese themselves – it is a question of ownership. the commission has also responded to the environmental disaster and has supported the lebanese government through the community civil protection mechanism in order to tackle the huge environmental damage. now we are working to assess and to address the needs relating to the reconstruction of lebanon with a view to restoring its infrastructure, and promoting economic recovery, social development and political cohesion. last week at the stockholm conference, i announced a package of eur 42 million to support early recovery until the end of the year. this brings the commission’s contribution so far to just over eur 100 million. i believe the european commission has shown that it is ready to act and to act quickly. the european union’s contribution to meeting specific and immediate needs is crucial in order to support the implementation of security council resolution 1701 and to support a lasting settlement to the conflict between israel and hizbollah that has for too long destabilised lebanon and also threatened israel. the middle east needs a strong, sovereign, unified and politically independent lebanon, able to consolidate the fragile peace that has returned and to contain the very real risk of spill-over of tension that remains. the lebanese population must also feel the tangible benefits of the cessation of hostilities. a beirut-driven reconstruction process will help to strengthen the role of the lebanese government. for this, and in order to really start the reconstruction phase, the lifting of israel’s air and sea blockade is crucial. i join again with secretary-general kofi annan in calling for its immediate removal. over the longer term, the international community must remain engaged, with a focus on supporting institutional recovery and promoting lebanese state-building efforts, including those undertaken via the national dialogue. that means pursuing the political, social and economic agenda already outlined in the eu lebanon action plan. it is not an exaggeration to say that the measures we identified together before the conflict are now more important than ever. we must also work collectively with our lebanese counterparts to ensure that conditions for long-term stability are met, including removing the ambiguity surrounding the disarming of hizbollah – which can only realistically be achieved as part of a process of political integration – and clarifying the status of the shebaa farms. we must not lose sight of the broader picture across the region. while international attention was drawn to lebanon, the violence and suffering continued in the palestinian territories and qassam rockets continued to fall on israeli towns and villages. i was in israel with the finnish president after the rome conference. we went to haifa, where there was constant danger from rockets. in the palestinian territories, in order to avoid further escalation we need a return by the palestinian militants to the ‘calm’ that held for most of 2005, the release of hostages, detainees and prisoners, as well as progress on basic issues of movement and access, which, as we know hold the key to palestinian economic recovery and to the creation of a viable palestinian state. this should start with the rapid re-opening of the gaza crossings, in particular the rafah border, supported by the eu border assistance mission. the commission is, in principle, ready to take further action to upgrade the infrastructure and strengthen capacity on the basis of the access and movement agreement of last november. the context must be our long-standing aim of building up the institutions of a future palestinian state, working with the palestinian authority, which in turn means that the eu should be ready to respond pragmatically to the formation of a palestinian national unity government. i repeat that we will engage with any government ready to work for peace through peaceful means. we must not and we do not forget the plight of the palestinian people. we have, as you know, via the temporary international mechanism, ensured access to clean water and sanitation in the gaza strip. we kept hospitals and healthcare centres going through the summer and we have now also provided social allowance payments that have benefited more than 600 000 palestinians directly and many more indirectly. but with the continued political stalemate, closures and also frozen fiscal revenues, the tim can only provide temporary relief. we cannot go on much longer like this. we must seek ways to improve access and movement to get israel to unblock the withheld palestinian revenues that now amount to eur 500 million and to get the palestinian authority to ensure public order and security. we owe it to the parties and they owe it to their own people. the rapid escalation of violence this summer produced no victory, only victims. we see once more the failure of military action to resolve the long drawn-out conflicts of the middle east. yet the status quo – which includes the slow chipping away of the credibility of a two-state solution, continued occupation and endemic violence – is itself a recipe for instability. it is also a recipe for interference by third parties and radicalism, fuelled by injustices, either perceived or real. there is, then, really only one choice: we need to renew the political perspective upon which the peace process depends, including for example our position on the primacy of the 1967 borders. we must do everything possible to bring all the parties back to the negotiating table. by focusing on some concrete and pragmatic measures that can bring about some positive and tangible results, we can help to create the appropriate climate and facilitate a re-engagement between the parties. decisive action is needed to get the parties back on track towards a negotiated peace. i have called for an early meeting of president abbas and prime minister olmert. i hope they can address the issue of hostages and detainees, as well as other pressing questions of violence, access and finances. it is time for israel and lebanon to establish channels for dialogue, and for syria to be brought back into the equation, as they show readiness to play their part in the implementation of the relevant security council resolutions. iran must also take its responsibility and demonstrate its readiness to contribute to peace and stability in the region. many ideas have been floated on a comprehensive approach to peace in the middle east. the arab league initiative in particular deserves our full attention. at the gymnich meeting last weekend, many voices called for greater eu leadership in the middle east. i believe they are right. we have to turn the tragic events of this summer into an opportunity for a long-term settlement of the still open conflicts in the region. our credibility, and that of the quartet and the un, is at stake. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there is no region in the world that has been as tested by so many decades as the middle east. and the people who suffer are the people who just want to live in peace. soldiers are being kidnapped and killed, and the consequences are terrible: alleged and actual military targets were bombed, with countless civilian casualties. it's been a spiral of violence for decades, a vicious cycle with no end. i would like to thank you, mr president, for calling the group chairmen for a meeting twice during the holidays. i would like to thank you, mr tuomioja, commissioner ferrero-waldner, and also the high commissioner, javier solana, for their contribution. as the european union, we can say that a military solution in the middle east is not possible. there must be a political solution to achieve peace, and peace must begin in the minds of those who are responsible. we are also saying that a military presence can help to create the conditions for peace. we have been debating a european security policy here in the european parliament for many years. and if you remember 20 years ago, you would have wished - but it was thought unthinkable at the time - that we were no longer asking ourselves whether we would engage militarily, but how we would engage. it is also intended to give us europeans a little encouragement that the path we are now taking, namely the assumption of responsibility, is the right one and that we must and want to assume this responsibility. what are our goals? the aim is a sovereign lebanon. we cannot accept that syria or iran should exercise direct or indirect control over lebanon. as regards the role of iran, we must also consider its influence on the nuclear programme. hezbollah is a political organization, but it's also a military organization. if you want democracy in the middle east, then you also have to take into account that it is the result of elections, that hezbollah is in the government and in the parliament. but it is not acceptable that there is a state within a state, that a political party has its own militia and thus calls into question the actions of the sovereign lebanese government and military. that is why there must be a solution to disarm hezbollah within the framework of the peace process. the primacy of politics is at stake. (applause from the centre) israel has been criticized many times for its response. i confess that at one point i also said that this reaction was disproportionate. but i also say: i have great respect for the fact that in israel, in a free, democratic debate, the question is asked of what was done wrong in israel politically and militarily. i would like to see such a self-critical debate in the countries of the region bordering israel. if this self-criticism is also present in the other states, in israel's neighbourhood, then we are also on the road to democracy in the middle east. let me say this as a german european: i was deeply moved - i was born after the war - when the israeli prime minister said that he welcomed a german contribution to peace. this is something completely new, something that was unthinkable before. it is therefore right that the federal republic of germany should also make a contribution together with its european friends in the european union. (applause from the centre) i was deeply moved. the people of palestine have the same dignity as the israelis or us europeans. and they have a right to live within secure borders. we call on all the parties in palestine, fatah and hamas, to form a real government of national unity in order to contribute to peace. we europeans are perhaps in a new situation for the first time, in that we are not only providing the humanitarian aid that is important to the people, but we are also now taking on a constructive role within the framework of the quartet. i call on all the parties in the quartet to take this path together with the european union. let me conclude by saying this: the european people's party group european democrats believes that the dignity of the human person is the basis of all politics. that is why we say to all in the middle east and the arab and islamic world: do not abuse young people who risk their lives and the lives of others as so-called martyrs, but allow the young people to contribute as living people in their countries under humane conditions. respect human dignity and human life! then we will stand with those peoples and governments. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i thank the president-in-office and mrs ferrero-waldner for their comments. i believe that the crisis and the solution which you have described and which must now be organized, represents a historic opportunity for europeans and for the member states of the european union. it is not just for them, and you are right, mr tuomioja, but other countries - particularly islamic countries - must also make their contribution. but there is also a unique opportunity for the europeans involved. i'd put it another way. there is not only a unique opportunity, but also a unique duty to provide concrete solutions for peace now, because we must recognize that the solutions of the united states of america in the region have completely failed, and that this failure is one of the causes of the current crisis. it's got to be said here. we europeans therefore have a duty to try now to make our constructive contribution to the solution. this contribution cannot only be military, it must be military. it must summarise different aspects that are necessary in the region. we need a comprehensive approach, which includes military action on the basis of international law, which includes humanitarian action, which includes diplomatic activity and which does not ignore the core conflict in the region: namely, the solution of the palestinian conflict, which is the cause of destabilisation in the entire region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. yes, it is about israel's right to exist in the first place. for us social democrats in europe, it is clear: the existence of israel is a core element of our policy, and anyone who questions israel's right to exist has us as an adversary. but in the present situation we must also strengthen lebanon. lebanon was well on its way to becoming a stable, secular democracy after the end of the civil war. a lot of things have been smashed. we must therefore help the lebanese people to return to the situation before the military conflict, which was so hopeful for the whole region. and we must build palestine, first and foremost by providing humanitarian aid. the situation in palestine is dramatic. i want to say one thing for us social democrats: the dialogue with all the forces in palestine can no longer be avoided; it is necessary and indispensable. (applause from the centre) i must promote and build civil society structures. civil society structures, all the forces that are in favour of dialogue - and in particular intercultural and interreligious dialogue - must be our partners. what is needed in the region, as has been suggested by previous speakers, including my colleague mr poettering, is not that we question each other, but that we respect, on the basis of what we represent, on the basis of our western values, other values, perhaps religious, but also constructive, values that respect human dignity. we are not to go there and make islam the enemy. islam is a religion that has almost a billion people in this world, and we cannot allow a few savage terrorists to be equated with a billion people in this world. this is a fatal mistake. that is why intercultural dialogue is so important. (applause from the centre) i think the release of the prisoners is an important point. it has to be now. the parties involved must now keep their word, because what we need are confidence-building measures. it's not a tired term. such measures are now, in this situation, indispensable - small steps, measurable steps, confidence-building steps, including the release of prisoners and the involvement of all forces in the region. we need all the states, we need all the states, and especially syria. i do not want to hide the fact that there has been a lot of disappointment here in the house - and in our group - about what has been said in recent weeks, in part, about syria. only, to solve the problem, we need syria. if syria is prepared to engage in constructive dialogue with us, then i call on the syrians to show signs of goodwill, to return to the dialogue that has already been suggested, and to give us the opportunity, for example, to take some action, however small, on border issues. show us that syria is ready to return to the negotiating table! in this context, a note: at the height of the cold war, the two opposing camps were able to talk to each other because we had created the conference on security and cooperation in europe. why should we not take up again the idea of a conference on security and cooperation in this region, bringing all the parties involved to the table: the states on the road map - that is, us europeans, the united nations, russia, the united states - but also the states of the region, the arab league and syria? it would certainly be worth considering. i agree with mr poettering that nothing in the world can justify individual terrorism. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe, and to help the people of europe. there is no justification for terrorism of any kind, and that is why the fight against terrorism is our common task. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation in the middle east is of direct concern to europe. unfortunately, it took a war to make us aware of this fact. this has also put the issue at the centre of diplomatic efforts. we all know that we need a comprehensive political solution in the middle east: two states, israel and palestine, peace in the triangle israel-syria-lebanon, the help of the non-radical arab states, the pushback of iran and its henchman hezbollah. we know what needs to happen. it is time to put the pieces of the puzzle together, because people are suffering from violence. mr schulz, i was very pleased that you took up the idea of the fdp for a csce (conference on security and cooperation in the middle east). kurt beck has done that before. we are supporting you, and it would be nice if this could actually happen. hans-dietrich genscher will be pleased to hear that. many member states are involved in unifil, the military operation in lebanon. the european units are the backbone of this force, but unfortunately they are national units, not european. this is not good, because we liberals share the dream of the esvp, which daniel cohn-bendit has so eloquently presented here. but i also want to say something, mr cohn-bendit. for a party that has long wanted to disband the bundeswehr and withdraw from nato, i find it quite remarkable that you are now attacking poor graham watson, because after long discussions the fdp takes a well-founded position on this issue and for once is not there. i'd hold the ball a little flatter. if we had followed your security policy then, janusz onyse kiewicz would not be the president of this house now. we are grateful to the soldiers who will be serving in this difficult region, but it is also clear that we politicians must finally create a common foreign and security policy worthy of the name, even if it does become serious. the difficulties in the council have been raised. we need to review existing structures, we need real joint decision-making, in short, we need a leap forward in the common foreign and security policy. we want to work for this, europe has this responsibility, europe must take it up. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! europe was needed, and the nation states stumbled along - albeit in the right direction. this was further proof that we cannot move forward with the current structure, and it was further proof that without the constitution we cannot meet our obligations to our citizens, because the structures are not sufficient. now, on to the subject: we have a conflict here that certainly needs to be seen in the context of the larger middle east conflict. i can see the conflict between the palestinians and the israelis. hezbollah is not affected, but the shebaa farms are an alibi. this is a group not directly concerned, which, encouraged and supported by iran and syria, is waging a conflict to destroy the state of israel. this is the starting point that must be kept clearly in mind if we are to arrive at a fair judgment. of course, it is debatable whether israel's response to the current situation was excessive. i believe that, but i mean, we must not forget the starting position. for this reason, we must now have clear commitments from syria and iran to stop supplying weapons. it must be made clear that hezbollah has prevented resolution 1559 so far and that militias are not allowed to have weapons. the sovereignty of lebanon can only be established if the government has a monopoly on violence in its own country and if hezbollah is not allowed to possess weapons. that is why we need a clear mandate. i understand that no one today has the power to disarm hezbollah immediately. but this circumvention - for example, when controls at sea are not allowed within the seven-mile zone and the like - gives rise to the suspicion that new loopholes are being created to enable new armaments to be used, which can then lead us back to war. the unifil force must be given more opportunities to achieve better results, so that 15 000 men do not play notaries, as 2000 soldiers have done so far, who have seen where the weapons were hidden, but who have not been able to do anything about the weapons being hidden. the fact that this has to be done in cooperation with the lebanese government is clear, but this connection should be clearly seen. we therefore wanted to talk about the implementation of resolutions 1701 and 1559, and not just about formulaic compromises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it's finally time for the quartet to perform together there and not just exist on paper, and in the highest possible personnel of this quartet. only together can they provide the credibility needed to guarantee security and to build both a secure state of israel and a viable palestinian state. no one can do this alone; it is only possible together, and it must be done. we must come back to some kind of madrid conference to find a new beginning here. i also hope that terror in palestine, gaza and the west bank will end, that president abbas will find a way to stop it, and that at the same time the israeli actions will end. israel must realize that, in the face of the new long-range weapons that now exist, the existence of the state of israel is possible only if there is peace. the situation has changed. we have learned that from the lebanon conflict. i hope that they see this in jerusalem, that they see this in ramallah. if they both want to avoid being destroyed in the long run and give their children a chance, then they must come to an agreement now, and we should do our part. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i can agree with you on the whole and i think you have led this unconstitutional europe very well through these waves. you said that any outstanding conflicts in the region must not be resolved either militarily or unilaterally. i agree with you, but i would add that we must also talk about iran. if we want to prevent hezbollah from being further armed, if we want to prevent the threat of rumsfeld, who can imagine a new war, from being implemented after the deadline, if we want to prevent this, then we europeans must start negotiating with iran again on the solutions to the nuclear conflict and also on ending support for hezbollah. i think we owe that to israel, but also to the entire middle east. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. she's the target. but this cannot be a precondition for negotiations, we must negotiate to achieve our objective. this is the way. if we europeans can do this together, then i believe we will actually have a peace solution for the entire middle east.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we must look ahead, but it is also worth looking back at how the lebanon crisis was handled. the result of european involvement is right, the path to that result is not quite right. we have seen that for weeks there has been confusion, that the debate has taken place in the national capitals but not in the european capital brussels. i would like to say that thanks to the finnish presidency and the italian government, europe has been spared a disgrace. the crisis area is in our neighbourhood, and therefore we have a special responsibility. it is very gratifying to hear from mrs ferrero-waldner that the eu is immediately ready to provide humanitarian and practical aid. the responsibilities are clear, the mechanisms and methods are clear. the political and military aid is not clear. there is still a large gap, a large deficit, and it has taken a long time to achieve coordination. i also say that the cost of non-constitutionalism has been made clear once again in this crisis. we need the new instruments, a president of the council who calls the heads of state and government, a european foreign minister who can operate at this operational level, a european external action service that can gather information on the ground and increased cooperation so that a group of states can take action for the eu. we're looking ahead. i also say that there is now a chance that we are not only paymasters in the middle east, but also political actors. europe has something to contribute. the csce or the madrid conference must now be the model for the next step. we're over the cold war. it must be possible in the middle east too!
president of the council. mr president, the case raised by the author is very important from the point of view of the european union and the council. the european union agency for the protection of the borderlands has asked the member states for surveillance vessels, surveyors and border experts to carry out its own mission in the canary islands. it is in the council's interest to strengthen operational cooperation in this area by developing forms of joint operations, and finland, as the presidency, intends to further develop the european integrated border control system.
president of the council. mr president, it is of course important that we have adequate resources for the return of illegal immigrants and for monitoring this, but i would also like to emphasize this comprehensive approach to the question of illegal immigration. it is also a question of cooperation with the countries from which these illegal immigrants come and of being able to improve the conditions in the countries of origin too, so that the european union does not have to return so many illegal immigrants.
president of the council. mr president, the european union agency for the protection of the border can also be used to help increase cooperation in return operations. here, as in other areas, it is of course important to exchange experience and good practice between member states.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for paying attention to the respect for the fundamental human rights of the elderly. since the union is founded on the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, the council is naturally concerned about any possible loopholes in legislation which would mean that the rights of the elderly are not respected. respect for the fundamental human rights of all eu citizens and of all people living in the european union is enshrined in the treaty on european union, and the charter of fundamental rights adopted by the leaders of the european union in december 2000 sets out rights based on constitutional traditions and international obligations common to the member states. the poor treatment of the elderly in care is not only a human rights issue but also a social and sometimes even a criminal issue. in this respect, the legislative action must be decided at national level in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. the council also wishes to emphasise that it will uphold the principle of non-discrimination. it has already taken and will continue to take measures to prevent discrimination and prejudice based on the six grounds of discrimination set out in article 13 of the treaty establishing the european communities. one of these criteria is age. however, it should be borne in mind that it is the task of the european commission to monitor the implementation and enforcement of european union law in the member states and to submit proposals for appropriate legislative action to the european parliament and the council for adoption. the commission has proposed a council recommendation on injury prevention and safety promotion. one of the priority areas is the prevention of interpersonal violence. the proposal is on the agenda of the employment, social policy and health and consumers council meeting on 30 november and 1 december.
president of the council. mr president, it must of course be remembered that the need for a separate law for the protection of the elderly is decided at national level in the member states. but as i said in my reply, these issues of elderly protection are also to be discussed at the relevant council meeting in november/december.
president of the council. the aim, mr president, is of course to build and promote a common european policy so that it is possible to establish common quality criteria for services, regardless of the way in which they are produced and financed. i cannot give an opinion on the share of the unskilled labour force, but i think that this whole problem is linked to the question of the european social model, which we had a very good debate about yesterday in this house.
president of the council. mr president, the current eu anti-violence programme daphne, to which the honourable member refers, is currently focusing on violence against women, but, as the honourable member states, there is of course a need to look at ways of improving the situation at european level, including for the elderly.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has not examined the incident mentioned by the honourable member, which it regards as a bilateral matter between italy and the united states of america.
president of the council. the answer, mr president, is that the council has not dealt with this matter or examined it, but in that sense we have a lot of work going on, that there is an agreement between the european union and the united states on mutual legal assistance, which has a certain connection with cases like this. internal procedures are still needed in the member states to bring this agreement into force.
president of the council. mr president, this agreement on mutual legal assistance, to which i have just referred, will help to speed up assistance in a wide range of legal matters once it enters into force and could also be one of the key factors in making cooperation between the union and the united states work more quickly and more efficiently.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council believes that the strategic partnership with russia must be based on the common values enshrined in the partnership and cooperation agreement, in particular those to which russia is committed as a member of the council of europe and the osce. the same values are also mentioned in the new eu-russia treaty arrangements. the council considered that the promotion of stability and prosperity in russia required the establishment of a functioning democracy at all levels in the russian federation, respect for the rule of law, an independent judiciary and full respect for human rights, including the freedom and independence of the media, and a functioning civil society. the council, like the honourable member, is concerned about recent developments in the rule of law, the clear restriction of freedom of the press, the concentration of power and the new legislation in russia restricting the activities of ngos. the council is also concerned about the human rights situation in russia, and in particular in chechnya. the council is closely monitoring developments and regularly raises these problems and issues in its political dialogue with russia, in particular in the biannual human rights dialogues. the council is monitoring, inter alia, the implementation of the recently revised law on combating extremist activities, in particular with regard to the expanded definition of extremism.
we read that the german foreign minister intends to put forward a proposal in the council to promote common values through closer, lasting links between the eu and russia. is it not absurd that russia is not even prepared to change the poor conditions of detention for mr khodorkovsky, which are contrary to its own legal order, or to adapt them to its own law, which requires prisoners to be housed close to home? have you spoken to russia specifically about the cases of these two yukos detainees?
i would ask the same question because this is a very blatant violation of russia's own legality. but the answer - for which i am grateful - raises a question for me: do you think that the concept of a strategic partnership with russia is possible and promising in itself, given the increasingly deteriorating human rights situation? we must not, instead, develop new models of cooperation? the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights.
member of the commission. mr president, let me begin by welcoming this debate. i thank the honourable members and the rapporteur in particular. let me make a few strategic remarks at the outset. as you will be aware, the ninth eu-china summit will take place in helsinki in just three days’ time. it will be a very important opportunity to discuss current issues and concerns at the highest level. however, i should also like to focus my contribution today – particularly in the light of the focus of your report – on how we can bring a more strategic approach to our relations. i may then add a few words on some specific items. our relationship with china is one of the key issues facing the european union today and one that is constantly on my mind. this is true across the board, whether on environment and climate change, energy security, non-proliferation, global and regional security, economic and trade relations and specific issues such as illegal migration. there are also all the issues relating to the rule of law that you have mentioned. we all know the key challenges. firstly, china’s economic growth has been phenomenal, but, at the same time, it is still a developing country and more fragile than we might think. to be sustainable, economic growth must be accompanied by social and political reform. secondly, china has a vital role to play in creating more stable international energy markets and dealing with environmental challenges. thirdly, accelerating globalisation – which is increasingly identified in the public mind with cheap production in china – is an issue and is leading to pressure for protectionism in developed markets, which both the european union and china need to work to avoid. fourthly, china, like the european union, wields global influence. will this support or hinder a rules-based multilateral world order? put simply, the question facing us is how we should respond to the rising superpower with whom we certainly share interests and common ground, but – and let us be realistic here – with whom we also disagree as regards some very fundamental values and beliefs. before suggesting some principles that should guide our strategic response to this challenge, i should reiterate that the basic premise for the eu’s policy towards china must be one of engagement and partnership. there is no suggestion of containment or of hedging our options. engagement and partnership are the most effective basis for encouraging and supporting china’s development in a way that meets the aims and interests of both the eu and china. what principles should guide us? in terms of china’s internal reform and development we must be constructive and we must complement chinese policy where possible. however, the european union must also send firm and very consistent messages on our areas of interest, such as the need for social and political reform to ensure china’s sustainability, the importance of international non-proliferation regimes, and immediate market access and a level playing field for eu companies. secondly, internationally, the european union has an interest in encouraging more active and responsible international engagement by china. we need to enhance our understanding of chinese foreign policy if we want to work together effectively. we should emphasise the regional component, increasing our awareness and sensitivity as regards regional issues and encouraging regional integration and greater multilateralism in asia. thirdly, the european union needs greater focus and coherence internally. before exploring new areas, there should be a full internal review of our existing cooperation, leading to a clearer focus on priorities and, as necessary, moving on from areas which are ineffective or are no longer priorities. our aim should be a holistic approach, with the european union as a whole speaking again with one voice on its china policy. fourthly, we should also work to ensure that our bilateral relations are strengthened by embracing all constituents of societies. parliament will also have a very important role to play in this context. we need a long-term programme to promote mutual understanding and an effective strategic policy mechanism that is sufficiently informal and flexible. fifthly, throughout this process, the european union should be aware of its strengths. there is particular eu expertise on a range of issues relating to internal stability where china wants help, for instance on energy, the environment, regional integration and public health, and we should exploit this as fully as possible. sixthly, there are other areas in which we have less leverage. i know the human rights situation in china is of particular concern to parliament, as it is to the commission. the past year has not been seen as a year of significant progress on any of the areas in which we are particularly interested, such as the ratification of the international covenant on civil and political rights, the release of the 1989 prisoners, the abolition of reform through labour and greater protection for freedom of expression and of religion, where we continue to have real concerns. but i can assure you, honourable members, that these issues will remain a central part of our policy agenda and we will continue to engage and to push for progress. the commission is taking steps to turn these principles into reality. we will, as the report requests, set out a new strategic vision for our policy towards china, which we will be in a position to present formally to the council and parliament in november. i look forward to assessing the situation for myself during my trip to china early next month. in addition to our continued support for china’s internal reform process, i think we should also focus on four basic priorities: first, we need a greater balance in our bilateral relations, whether described as reciprocity, equality or mutual benefit. that includes a more meaningful dialogue on human rights and related issues. questions such as progress on social and economic rights would be included there. we are worried by the situation on civil and political rights in china, and in particular, as has been mentioned, as regards freedom of expression, religion and association and the protection of the rights of minorities. we are, in that context, concerned that internet use is being more and more restricted and controlled. as i heard the rapporteur say, we attach great importance to the issue of organ harvesting. it is clear that the legislation on that issue recently adopted by the chinese government does not adequately address the issue of donor consent, particularly for those who have died in custody or who have been executed. we have made our concerns known very clearly to the chinese government, both through our human rights dialogue and wider political channels, urging it, in quite strong terms, to take measures to address these concerns as a matter of urgency. we need to make china a responsible member of the international community, but more than just a stakeholder, it needs to be a positive and active contributor. on trade issues, if eu markets are to remain open, we have to see to it that we need a genuine, bilateral and multilateral response from china implementing the letter and spirit of the wto commitments. we need to overhaul the management structures for our relationship to avoid fragmentation and to ensure our allocation of resources on china is appropriate. there is much to be done in defining a realistic but also an ambitious strategic vision for moving eu-china relations forward. we should not ignore the difficulties involved in achieving this – and i do not think we are ignoring them. but let me reiterate that it is crucially important that we get the relations right. both sides want a genuine strategic partnership that merits its name. it is our responsibility to translate this political desire into practice. i think we have a good basis on which to move forward and, as we do so, i hope we can count on your support, because it is too important an issue for us not to succeed. (applause)
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what would happen if we were not allowed to talk about china today? it has already been mentioned that the next eu-china summit will take place on 9 september, with the prime minister, with the ministers of foreign affairs, reform, planning and trade. a high-level china-europe economic forum will also be held in helsinki on 12 september. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december last, and the european council in brussels on 15 and 16 december last, have been very positive in their efforts to bring about a new and more balanced and more effective european union. as the author of the opinion on this subject in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i focus on economic and monetary policy views. china's trade surplus was us$ 102 billion in 2005, and it will be even larger in 2006. and by the end of 2006, china will have more than a trillion dollars in foreign exchange reserves. many circles are calling for a rapid change in exchange rates. china is not going to close itself off from these demands in the medium term either. however, in view of the strong interconnectedness of financial markets, i have advocated in my opinion a cautious change, because radical and rapid measures can have incalculable consequences on financial markets. the international monetary fund must monitor such developments and, if necessary, take timely action. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial crisis in the community is not exacerbated by the economic crisis in the united states. one might ask why the us, with its enormous budget deficit, is so strong for china. perhaps because, as mentioned earlier, china is at the helm of the dollar boat with its exchange rate policy and its large foreign reserves. how is this viewed in the member states of the european union, and what do the heads of the ecofin council say about this? the european union is china's most important trading partner, and china is the european union's second most important trading partner. we therefore have to respect the chinese for the way in which they have fulfilled and are trying to fulfil some of the commitments they made when they joined the wto. however, there is still considerable need for improvement in copyright protection and in particular in credit issues. the further opening up of the banking and insurance markets and the pursuit of common standards are visible steps forward. the doha round is to be revived at talks in australia at the end of september. here, too, the us would like to see greater chinese influence. the european union will be accompanying this process with whom, in order to give the chinese the feeling that europe can develop common strategies with china in partnership?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. our group is really committed to the development of the strategic partnership between the eu and china. but these relations must be based on complete openness, credibility and responsibility. we must not abandon our convictions for economic or political reasons, but we must speak clearly to our chinese partners. i thank you, commissioner, for the clear words you used in your opening speech and i encourage you to use the same words at the helsinki summit. if we are open and honest with each other, we also have a good chance of developing the strategic partnership in a meaningful way. let me make three points: we must continue to demand - as the commission is doing - that the government of the people's republic of china implement the principles of fair world trade in china after its accession to the wto. you can't excuse yourself by saying that the central government doesn't know what's happening in all the provinces. intellectual property protection must be enforced, and if the chinese government can enforce its political beliefs to the last prison, it should also be able to enforce intellectual property protection to the last factory floor. secondly, we call on the national people's congress to finally ratify the international covenant on civil and political rights. they signed it, but they're delaying ratification. they come back to this in the conversations that we always like to have with them and say that this is so difficult and they need to prepare for it first. i'm not going to. they signed it, they're supposed to ratify it, and they're supposed to enforce human rights. in practice, implementation means freedom of religion, freedom of the press, freedom of speech. that must be guaranteed. we also need cultural autonomy for tibet. i think glyn ford has not quite got it right: china has to change its relations with its neighbours on its own. it must also change relations with neighbouring japan and taiwan. and as regards taiwan in particular, we all want a political dialogue between beijing and taipei in this house, but it must not take the form of a threat. it is therefore completely absurd for the socialists to demand the lifting of the arms embargo. you will return to the solidarity of the democrats in this house! as long as there are human rights violations in china, there will be no lifting of the embargo!
the commission has already done so. i am glad that i can speak after the rapporteur's closing remarks. i think we have an important debate today, because china -- and this is not just a saying -- is a great country with a great culture that can play a significant role in the future, if things go as you imagine. but you have to follow the rules. we want this constructive strategic relationship and partnership with china. but if you want to be in the wto, you have to respect intellectual property, you have to deal with the dumping rules, you have to ask what prisoners' work in prison camps means and equal competition, you have to work in doha, you have to have a monetary policy that is consistent with that, because trade surpluses can be earned by performance, but not by not following rules. it is also important to help overcome political crises, as china does in a way with iran, but at the same time china is buying energy everywhere, for example in darfur. the question is whether this is the responsibility of a future world power. it is important that this be linked to human rights. china has experienced an intensive economic development, but it still has to prove that there is liberalism not only in the economy but also in the political system, otherwise a big breakdown can occur, which also puts economic development in question. china has not yet provided this proof. i am in favor of the one-china policy, but only on the basis that it is the free decision of all parties involved and that it cannot be done by force. the relevant chinese legislation from last year is not acceptable, and as long as this is the case and threats are involved, the arms embargo cannot be lifted. we want relations with this great country, china, but i believe that we must also respect the common rules of international humanitarian law and that this is the only basis for steady progress.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive. china is one of the rising powers of the 21st century. the people's republic has become an important player in the economy and in politics. yes, the differences between our political systems impose limits on cooperation. nevertheless, the eu must put good relations at the heart of the partnership, and i think - as mr coveney has already said - that you, commissioner, have struck a really excellent balance today. an example of positive cooperation is foreign policy. we want a greater responsibility of china in foreign policy; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external relations are not affected by the crisis. we have a human rights and civil rights dialogue with china, which includes the free work of ngos and political foundations. i therefore expressly welcome the european parliament's request to reopen the office of the german liberal friedrich naumann foundation in beijing, which has been forcibly closed since 1996. the resumption of work by the foundation for the promotion of democracy and development is important and must be implemented. it would make an important contribution to the development of the strategic partnership. let me conclude by saying a few words about what has been said here: should we have a dialogue with the united states on china? i mean, yeah. we have a power shift in the international system. we are seeing it before our eyes and i believe it is up to the great democracies in europe and north america to talk to each other about such a change in the international system. it's better to talk to each other, it's very important. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate the presidency, the commissioner and the absent presidency of the council. the excitement over the china report shows us that there is a double standard in our own house, which is not appropriate for a debate on politics and human rights. the eu is seen as the voice of human rights worldwide, and it is also china's most important trading partner. we should act on that. we all know of the serious violations of human rights in tibet and in china, which our parliament has repeatedly called on china to respect. i'll speak to elmar brok. this clear demand must be supported by an eu special representative for tibet. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. the eu makes cooperation with all countries conditional on respect for human rights, without exception. i also reject the chinese embassy's interference in our affairs in tibet as shameless.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the first version of the eu-china report does not mention tibet. i am very grateful to the committee on foreign affairs for supporting the requests made by myself and my colleagues from the tibet intergroup. the report sets out the basis and future direction of relations with china and is highly influential. human rights are not a side issue, but the starting point of our political action and by no means an expression of a supposedly typical western way of thinking. it is not a matter of sound but non-binding words, but of the concrete observance of fundamental rights. with paragraph 37 bastiaan belder has found a good compromise and incorporated my proposals. we condemn the serious violations of human rights in tibet, the suppression of religious freedom, arbitrary arrests, house arrest and torture. we reject the so-called "patriotic education campaign". it forces monks and nuns to issue statements denouncing the dalai lama as a "dangerous separatist" and proclaiming tibet as part of china. we call on china to grant unhindered access to the kidnapped panchen lama, the second highest spiritual authority after the dalai lama. we expressly support the negotiations between the chinese authorities and his holiness' representatives, including the question of the true autonomy of tibet. in paragraph 82 we call for the abolition of the death penalty and the strengthening of the protection of minorities. i hope that the european parliament will approve these two motions tomorrow. they are so important to a people who are being stealthily robbed of their identity. i am reminded of the visit of the dalai lama to brussels on 31 may. he met meps, several commissioners and the president of the council, wolfgang schüssel. we hope that more and more chinese leaders will succeed in freeing themselves from their ideological burden.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a few brief remarks to make. first of all, i would like to thank the chairman of the committee and the rapporteur. secondly, i would like to thank the commissioner for being here this afternoon and this evening, while others are not here because they are waiting for the iranian negotiators to fly by and therefore do not have time for this house. thirdly, we rejected the special representative in the committee because a special representative is uncontrollable. it's expensive, and there's already an inflation of special agents that no one can control. i think that is why it is important that we find solutions within the commission. i am in favour of supporting tibet, supporting its cultural identity, but we should not weaken the commission, which has the responsibility for human rights. the eusr would be based in the council and the european parliament would not be able to monitor him due to the legal situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that the vast majority of this house is not against strengthening security where it is necessary; it is not directed against the united states of america and against meaningful cooperation where we have had it in the past and where we will need it in the future. the european union and the united states must cooperate on security issues, as the attacks in european cities have shown us. but - and this is the fundamental criticism of the majority of this house - the agreement on the sharing of air passenger data in the fight against terrorism should be meaningful and coherent. it is clear that neither is the case with what we are presented with here. there are fundamental problems which have already been pointed out by previous speakers from various groups. firstly, the purpose for which the data are used and, secondly, the legal basis on which the transfer is based. it is not only my group that has doubts about both. the use of the data should be limited to counter-terrorism purposes only and should not include other purposes. finally, it is extremely problematic from a legal point of view not to equate citizens of the european union with citizens of the united states. it is not acceptable that our citizens should have fewer rights than american citizens. we need a balanced and consistent agreement that guarantees the protection of data and restricts its use to the specific purpose of fighting terrorism and terrorism. we must not put political aims above fundamental rights. there is an inalienable core of fundamental rights for all our citizens in the european union. we are watching with great concern the slow erosion of it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that at the latest the council - if it were here, but the commission is represented by the vice-president - will realise that parliament, speaking with one voice across the political groups, is fully aware of the need - some for more, some for less - but also at the same time demands that appropriate data protection provisions be negotiated here on an equal footing with the united states. that should give the other institutions something to think about. the judgment of the european court of justice has not brought us very far. it has explained to us that we have chosen the wrong legal basis, but it has not told us how we could do it better. that's not the job of a court, either. it is our job to be careful how we do this. i would like to comment on the implementation steps ahead. i think we're gonna have a lot of trouble if we keep this up. firstly, i doubt whether - even if we would prefer to do it as a union rather than the nation states doing it alone - we have the legal competence to do it. i'm not sure, to be honest. even if we do, the question is whether we will make it in time. if we do take either the third pillar or a combination of the second and third pillars to further this process, we will, at least in most member states, encounter implementation problems. we will have national constitutional problems - i can say that about germany, and i am sure that most member states will encounter similar constitutional obstacles to the implementation of this agreement. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in addition, we will have problems of a data protection nature because, apart from the first pillar, we do not have effective data protection in the european union, which means that the legal and legislative conditions for data protection must first be created in the member states. i am therefore afraid that at least before the european court of human rights or before the european court of justice itself - if it is legally possible, depending on the legal basis - or before the national constitutional courts, we will certainly have some proceedings which will prevent it from coming into force. we must therefore be extremely careful in the formal sphere - content aside - to avoid embarrassing ourselves further, because that is precisely what we cannot afford to do on the international stage and particularly on this issue. in conclusion, i would also like to ask why no one in the european union has dared to show our partners on the other side of the atlantic, at least once, the economic damage that would result from the united states saying: 'if you do not sign this, your airlines will not be allowed to land here!'
the commission has already done so. to be quite clear, parliament was right to complain about the pnr agreement. unfortunately, the european court of justice did not comment on the content of the agreement, since it considered that the legal basis on which it was based was wrong. i believe that this could also be the case with the retention directive. the court of justice has ruled that a new agreement should or must be concluded at very short notice, so that not all 25 member states have to conclude bilateral agreements with the united states individually, which would certainly not be conducive to a high level of protection, and above all, uniform protection, for european citizens. of course, a completely new agreement cannot be negotiated in such a short time, but there are points which must be implemented with a view to the short-term agreement envisaged for one year. i believe that the eu must insist above all on the us finally fulfilling its commitments, that is to say, the us declarations of commitments must be transposed into the body of the treaty. the practice of the past two years has shown that the united states does not take these commitments very seriously, that it simply ignores them. this applies in particular to the principle of data retention and it is in the best interests of european citizens that pnr data should not be disclosed arbitrarily by us customs and immigration authorities.
the commission has already done so. the transfer of passenger data to third countries is one of the most sensitive issues facing the european union. how do we protect people from terrorist violence without compromising their basic rights or their privacy? this means in this case: if the eu concludes an agreement on the transfer of personal data of air passengers, then the adequate protection of this data must be an elementary part of such an agreement. this was not the case with the agreement concluded, and it seems that the new version will not meet this requirement either. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but there must be a legally binding regulation on who gets access to the data and where. that is why we need to renegotiate this agreement with the united states completely next year. it is clear that if the transfer of pnr data is to lead to greater protection against terrorist attacks, it cannot be limited to flights to the united states, canada or australia. we will need an international agreement that improves air safety worldwide, while providing legally binding data protection rules. the european union can make progress on this. only in this way can we ensure freedom of movement as a distinctive feature of our society without unnecessarily restricting it. and one more thing about the council: after the shameful behaviour of the council and the commission in our committee on monday, i think it is extremely regrettable that the council is not here today, because this is precisely what is to be negotiated under its presidency. this is an embarrassment to the council.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too will start by stating that, for me, european cultural policy means both the protection of cultural heritage and the promotion of cultural diversity, but also, of course, the defence - and indeed the offensive defence - of contemporary art, and that only in this combination lies the strength of a properly understood european cultural policy. i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this area. anyone who has had the opportunity to travel in europe, whether to visit islands such as madeira, the canary islands, cyprus or malta, or the rural regions of tuscany, scotland, latvia, finland, poland or provence, knows how beautiful and diverse this european cultural heritage is and that it is easy to win people over to embrace this wealth. this is why the political authorities - both european and national - have a duty to protect this cultural treasure. i think it is therefore extremely important that in this effort to preserve europe's cultural diversity we should not only have the 2007 culture programme in mind, but really see it as a cross-cutting task, as a network policy which also includes agricultural and structural policy, that we should make use of the various programmes such as urban, leader, interreg, because we must make it clear that while this is an important cultural policy task, it is also a matter of training people - think of restorationists for example - and of new development in rural areas. so it is really a multi-policy approach to the various european programmes in the best sense.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in order to avoid any mythmaking, the house has adopted by a large majority amendment no 33, which seems to have referred to the principle. in that respect, your reasoning is wrong. they should vote for the report! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 150 (6) of the rules of procedure and i would like to make the following remark before the vote, which i also link with a question to my colleague mr poettering: there is an amendment no 5, tabled by mr hatzidakis. this amendment - which is a general consensus - states that we should send a delegation to the areas most affected. but now we are talking only about the regions in spain which are particularly affected. but it has also burned in portugal, greece, france and other countries. the question is, is this a mistake? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. or you could add to spain: portugal, greece, france. unless there's a political agenda behind it. this could not be entirely excluded. i would ask you not to pursue partisan politics on the backs of the victims in greece, portugal and other countries. so either we take spain out or we take all the other countries that have burned in with us. i would be grateful if we could get an explanation from the ppe-de group before the vote.
mr president, after mr galeote's very enlightening remarks, we have assumed that this is the case, as he has said, and i would add after spain: in portugal, greece, france and the other countries particularly affected. (applause from the centre)
in writing. consent to deploy troops to lebanon without knowledge of the rules of engagement the european parliament has voted in favour of a middle east peace conference, but unfortunately it voted in favour of sending troops to lebanon on the basis of a completely unclear mandate. no submission or information was received on the still secret operational rules of unifil. the european parliament resolution welcomes the 'strong mandate' of the lebanese force. the european parliament resolution does not explicitly exclude the disarmament of hezbollah as a possible surrender of unifil soldiers and thus also of soldiers from eu member states. advocating this military action is adventurous. this is a de facto green light for a combat mission of european troops in lebanon. it is shameful that the lebanese war is merely described in the european parliament's resolution as an 'overreaction' by israel to the hezbollah attacks. the european union is not prepared to accept the death penalty for the palestinians. some people can 't get enough , obviously . the resolution attributes 'a role model to the negotiating process to settle the israeli-palestinian conflict' to the 'presence of a multinational force in lebanon'. no, we need a political solution, not a constant deployment of troops.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the ceasefire in sri lanka, which has been in place since 2002, has been repeatedly broken. the worst attack in mid-june left 60 dead. the government blamed the ltte. in early august, tsunami workers from the french organization "action against hunger" were murdered, in mid-august, there were over 100 injured and 61 dead, all children and adolescents, in a massacre, presumably perpetrated by state security forces. the year 2006 reminds me of the year 2001. we were in jaffna with the sarc delegation and saw the effects of the civil war: villages destroyed, land burned, tens of thousands of desperate and hopeless refugees. in talks with the government and the opposition, human rights activists, buddhists and muslims, we have always supported the norwegian peace initiative. they tried to mediate this year too and failed. it is not acceptable to gloss over facts. the ltte is responsible for bombing civilians, for months of blockade of drinking water facilities and for refusing to renounce the recruitment of child soldiers. but there are also positives: two tamil parties have decided to join the ruling coalition. the president is prepared to investigate human rights violations by the army and police. and there is a growing recognition among many political leaders that the tamil population needs to be lifted out of its perceived second-class status. may these good news increase and the many horror stories decrease. sri lanka, one of the oldest democracies in asia, deserves such a development!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in sri lanka and ceylon, sinhalese and tamils have lived together for over 2,000 years. there were sinhalese kingdoms before rome, before caesar, before the birth of christ, and there were also offshoots of tamil kingdoms in south india. it is therefore all the more tragic that in our 21st century there is such an explosive situation, and we must say that we ourselves as europeans in the colonial era have contributed to the aggravation of the situation through settlement policies, through plantation ownership interests and through many other things. today we should contribute - and this is the crucial point - to a peaceful solution. and a peaceful solution can only come if we distinguish between the cause and the terrorists. the terrorists don't want a solution. the powers that be and the extremists do not want a solution because their personal power is based on ethnic conflict. the ethnic conflict could be resolved. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate an italian president: it is a fantastic model that has been created between italians and south tyrolians, and it has turned out that both sides benefit from it. not only the minority, but also the majority benefit from such an autonomy model. i think it is high time that we also pursue such a model of autonomy for sri lanka, with its dangerous situation. i therefore welcome this very balanced resolution and naturally support the amendments tabled by our group. i regret, however, that we are engaged in a partial ideological war between the political groups here, rather than agreeing and acting as a united parliament on this sensitive political issue, which would greatly increase our weight vis-à-vis the civil war parties in sri lanka.
vice-president of the commission. the european commission is deeply concerned at the growing violence which is seriously unravelling the ceasefire agreement and peace process in sri lanka. the intensification of hostilities between the liberation tigers of tamil eelam and the sri lankan army that has taken place over the last months is a matter of great concern. a full-scale war has to be avoided at all costs and parties must recommit to respecting the ceasefire agreement. the commission has repeatedly called on both parties to make the utmost effort to prevent a further escalation of violence and loss of life. the commission and the co-chairs of the tokyo donor conference on sri lanka have stated many times that violence is not the way to resolve the ethnic conflict in sri lanka. the suffering inflicted on innocent civilians is intolerable. the european commission is very concerned about the deteriorating human rights situation there. we share the concerns expressed in the draft resolution in relation to the recent violations and we are concerned about the climate of impunity and non-respect of human rights by both sides. the commission has been particularly shocked by the atrocious killing of 17 aid workers from the ngo 'action contre la faim' and has urged the authorities in sri lanka to investigate these killings immediately and thoroughly and to give assurances that they will do everything possible to ensure a safe humanitarian space in the country. the recent call by president rajapakse for an international independent commission – which we support – is a positive step which will have to be followed up by concrete action. we continue to follow the situation in sri lanka very closely and welcome the interest shown by parliament in this draft resolution with a view to encouraging both parties to ensure full respect for human rights. these new developments are important for the european union in its role as a co-chair of the tokyo donor conference. a co-chairs' meeting will take place in brussels on 12 september and the european commission will take an active part in ensuring that a strong message is put across to both parties, urging them to commit to a peaceful negotiated resolution of the conflict and full respect for human rights.
a writer. the commission is not the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. at the time, many thought this was an illusion, just as they believe the reunification of korea is an illusion today. it seems like this: a well-established dictatorship, with nuclear weapons at its disposal, brutally oppresses its people. but we will not give up on fighting for a free, reunified korea. but until that happens, we must protect the people who are being persecuted there. i believe that thailand in particular should hold on to its great tradition, which it has shown to millions of cambodians decades ago. it is often forgotten that the great majority of cambodians survived the khmer rouge terror because thailand - with european help, but at least thailand - gave them shelter and help. and what was possible for millions of cambodians should also be possible for a few thousand north koreans persecuted by communism. it is in this spirit that my group supports this resolution.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. appeals to mugabe have had no effect, nor has the call for greater involvement from neighbouring countries, particularly south africa. and what we have done as the eu has not impressed those who should have done it. what's the situation? an estimated two million people have fled to neighboring countries, mostly illegally. the so-called operation muramba-tsvina alone has uprooted 700 000 people in the truest sense of the word. four million people don't have enough to eat. 70% are unemployed. the inflation rate is the highest in the world. the fight against aids is made more difficult by forced resettlement. every week, 3,200 people die from aids. legislation to control and suppress the population has now reached the pre-independence level. what can we do? let us ensure that the international agencies working on the ground in the framework of the un provide their support to the population as directly as possible. let us ensure that the red cross can continue its work unhindered. i call on the commission in particular to: let us also support civil society there, the many courageous people, whether in the trade unions, in human rights organisations, in the churches or in the independent media, from the budget heading of the european initiative for democracy and human rights. let us ask china who it wants to settle with in zimbabwe, the government or the people. and let us tell our south african partners at every opportunity that by their inaction they are neither making things easier for themselves nor doing a good service to the people of zimbabwe.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission is following very closely the events in zimbabwe and we are increasingly concerned about the deterioration of the political situation, especially the economic and social situation, which is affecting people, civilians, citizens. in view of the conditions we are witnessing today - since there are no adequate measures, no measures taken by the zimbabwean government to seriously address the democratic crisis, the protection of rights and the tragic economic crisis - any possible relaxation or withdrawal of the measures taken by the european union against zimbabwe is out of the question: in other words, it's out of the question! the european union is not changing its attitude towards zimbabwe and its firm stance was recently reiterated by my colleague louis michel in his contacts with the authorities of the zimbabwean government, in which it was stressed that the commission is absolutely determined to play an active role in trying to unblock the situation. at the same time, we cannot renounce any of the conditions we have set, first and foremost the restoration of democratic rules for the daily life of citizens. what has been said confirms our concerns. i listened carefully, with great interest, to the idea of excluding zimbabwe from the 2010 world cup. the honourable members know that such a decision is taken by the international football federation, but, having said that, i personally consider it a serious idea, to be taken seriously, to be discussed with the member states and the international football federation; i cannot say today whether the result will be what some members are hoping for, but i can say that i will inform my colleague, mr louis michel, and my colleague, mrs ferrero-waldner, of this expectation: this is a matter that must be taken seriously. there is certainly another aspect: as i said earlier, europe hopes that zimbabwe will return to a path of restoring democratic living conditions and economic progress. we are of course prepared to indicate some ways forward, for example in the context of the tenth priority programme for the european development fund, where there are concrete possibilities, but we cannot refrain from placing a very clear conditionality on zimbabwe today: if we do not embark on a serious path towards democracy, we cannot change our firm stance. at the same time, the commission is in very close dialogue with zimbabwe's neighbours, in particular the member countries of the southern african development community and the south african government. i share what i heard: we will be increasingly active in calling on these neighbouring countries to do even more! we support the initiatives of the united nations and i think it is very important that the zimbabwean government is put under pressure by the leading african heads of state and government so that the political and humanitarian conditions can finally be improved and the road to national reconciliation can be opened. in the meantime, we're worried about the population. it is clear that while the attitude towards the zimbabwean government is one of absolute firmness, we must be concerned about direct assistance to the people, who are not to blame for a regime that deprives them of their freedom and even of their economic resources. i can confirm that commissioner michel intends to continue to support and even finance projects in the socioeconomic fields, medical care, the role of organisations on the ground. i would remind you that the role of the red cross must be allowed and encouraged, as must projects concerning governance, democratisation, respect for human rights and the rule of law. we believe that direct assistance to the people of zimbabwe must continue in all these areas.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i request to replace: to replace commission to inquire into recent killings, disappearances and abductions by the correct wording independent group of eminent persons as observers of investigations into abductions, disappearances and extrajudicial killings. that is the correct technical term to use.
i think that's the wrong wording here: delete two times the words and ingo. it's really just an editorial change.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have just noticed that although the addressees of the resolution on zimbabwe are the chairman of the executive council of the african union - that is, the executive, the government side - we have forgotten the pan-african parliament in the list. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations.
mr president, i do not always agree with mr swoboda. but he's right now. that's why we should agree with him.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european community has a right to pursue the highest possible aim of environmental legislation and standards throughout europe. could we achieve this by shifting problems to africa or asia? the media reported on the life-threatening effects of improper disposal of toxic sludge off the ivory coast by a dutch company. i find that scandalous. i ask: did the netherlands, a long-standing member of the eu, know about these exports? has a permit been issued? if so, under what conditions? what consequences were drawn? are the victims compensated and long-term damage excluded?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr szájer has asked the socialist group about the events in budapest and the remarks made by prime minister gyurcsány. the question of whether mr gyurcsány acted rightly or wrongly is a matter for each member of the hungarian parliament and of the european parliament to decide for themselves. i personally prefer politicians who have the courage to speak unpopular truths to those who want to continue to obscure what is needed to be presented to the necessary information. in that sense, one can think of ferenc gyurcsány as one pleases. nevertheless, he had the courage to say something that others - you, mr szájer - obviously do not want to say. you can wear a white shirt. it suits you, too. but you might tell us something: are those who burned a european flag outside the hungarian parliament your friends? if so, you are in the wrong place.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. first of all, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the epp and pse, mrs weisgerber and mrs corbey, for their cooperation. i would also like to thank the commission and the austrian and finnish presidencies for their openness and willingness to talk. the fact that we do not always agree on all points, both in parliament and between the institutions, should be part of democratic normality in europe. the important thing is that we are all working towards a common goal, from different perspectives and with different priorities, to improve air quality in europe. it is undeniable that high levels of air pollution, especially in densely populated regions and urban centres of the eu, are responsible for many respiratory diseases and their consequences. pollution knows no bounds. improving the quality of our ambient air therefore remains a major challenge. the only way to combat air pollution in the long term and within the european framework is to strengthen crossborder measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'pollutant' in the definition of the term 'pollutant'. while there is a legitimate concern about the state of europe's ambient air, i would also like to emphasise that air quality in europe has improved considerably in recent decades, thanks to strict legislation and technical progress. in the european parliament, we negotiated a package of compromise proposals between the three major groups before the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in july and in view of the forthcoming vote in the plenary, which in short follows the following approach: ambitious limit values and targets on the one hand, more flexibility and taking into account the difficulties of implementation of the current directive in the member states on the other. let me outline the main points. first of all, the pm10: there is a broad consensus in parliament that the annual average value for pm 10 of 40 micrograms, which is to remain unchanged after 2010, is not ambitious. in most european cities this value is already being respected. the commission had already announced a stricter annual average value for pm 10 from 2010 onwards, but this is not reflected in the present proposal. the three large groups therefore propose a reduction in the limit value for pm 10 to 33 micrograms from 2010 onwards. i think it is remarkable, commissioner, that you always leave out this very point when you criticise the compromises. we are taking a big step down in the pm-10 annual limit values. i would like to stress at this point that this is not about diluting limit values, as is also very much criticised by environmental associations. the daily limit for pm 10, which allows for a maximum of 35 days in which 50 micrograms may be exceeded, has been sharply criticised by many colleagues. the fact is that there is no correlation between the current daily limit and the annual limit. the number of days beyond 35 is arbitrary. no one in this house doubts the importance of taking daily measurements and informing at-risk groups of elevated concentrations of pollutants. however, no serious scientist has yet claimed that the daily limit value is more relevant to health policy than the annual limit value. the difficulties of cities in complying with the daily limit are well known. we leave the communes in a kind of organized helplessness. it has now been demonstrated that, regardless of any air pollution control measures, compliance with the daily limit values is largely contingent on the chance of meteorological events. the environment committee and the three large groups in this house support the compromise proposal which would give the towns and municipalities concerned a little more flexibility and allow them to comply with the limit of a maximum of 55 days instead of 35 days as before, with a reduction of the annual limit of around 20% from 2010 onwards under certain conditions. the correlation between the daily and annual limits proposed by parliament may be questioned by some, but no one can seriously claim that we are lowering the level of ambition compared to the position of the commission and the council. pm 2.5: of the smallest particles, pm 2.5 is considered by all experts to be the most dangerous to health. however, the data situation in europe on pm 2.5 is not yet robust and the experience with measurements in most member states is insufficient. we therefore propose to regulate pm 2,5 in two phases: the commission has already proposed a target value from 2010 and a limit value from 2005 which is to be set at 20 micrograms, again more ambitious than the council and commission proposals. a majority in parliament agrees that the annual average of 25 micrograms proposed by the commission is not ambitious and that we should therefore take a step downwards. in its proposal, the commission opted for a 20% overall reduction target for pm 2.5, without further assessing the impact of the specific measures and costs that the 20% reduction would entail for each member state. i am convinced, as are my colleagues, that a tiered approach, differentiated by member state and taking more account of prior achievements, is preferable to a flat-rate reduction target. a few words on article 20: i understand the criticism of the commissioner and also of outsiders of the 5 + 5 time delay to reach the limits . we've created a new package called 4+2. we are therefore going in the direction of the commission, which, as we know, proposes five years. i would like to stress once again that we can only improve air quality in europe in the long term and only with measures that target the source, the polluters. i look at the commission and say: i am waiting for your proposals - you have announced them - which deal with reducing pollution at source.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the constructive negotiations with the rapporteurs have led to a workable compromise. our main objective is to improve air quality effectively and sustainably. it is important that we set limits. but limit values alone do not improve air quality. this can only be achieved by effective emission-related measures such as the already proposed euro 5 emission standard, which makes soot particulate filters mandatory for new vehicles. we are also calling for the commission to take the lead in other measures such as regulations on small combustion plants, euro 6 for lorries and european-wide limits for marine engines. we want to move away from short-term temporary actionism to long-term measures at the source. we want to make health care more effective. that is why we are more ambitious than the commission in setting annual limits of 33 μg per m3. in the case of daily limits, which are proven to be largely influenced by weather, we are creating more flexibility for municipalities. because it's been proven that chronic exposure is the most dangerous. that is what we must focus on. the reduction of the annual limit for particulate matter creates incentives for long-term and sustainable actions such as environmental zones or the introduction of particulate filters. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has also proposed that the member states should take all appropriate measures to ensure that the quality of air is maintained at a high level. we also have the right incentives for this. the municipalities will only be granted a maximum extension of six years if they can demonstrate through action plans that they have taken all the proportionate measures in their power to improve air quality on the ground. in addition, the exemption is not granted to all municipalities, but only to those that have been shown to be facing particularly unfavourable meteorological conditions, such as boiler areas. the compromise is exactly what these clear statements stand for. it thus provides a balanced and effective solution to the health protection needs.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work and for the ability to compromise which is reflected in the compromise amendments which we have tabled. air quality is a measure of quality of life. in the european union, there are over 300 000 premature deaths from particulate matter every year. this state of affairs is intolerable and must be eliminated. it is therefore welcome that a strategy is being developed and that the directive on air quality and clean air for europe is being launched. the main focus of improving air quality is on the limit values for pm 10 and pm 2.5. the environment committee voted on 21 june for ambitious annual limits for pm 10 and pm 2.5. it is important for eu member states not only to define the limit values for good air quality, but also to develop the tools to comply with the defined limit values. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in addition to the instruments, the time component is of course crucial to ensuring compliance with the limit values. even if stricter limits for cars are defined immediately, it will take some time for the number of environmentally friendly vehicles on europe's roads to increase significantly. the compromise to be agreed will guarantee stricter limits and a realistic timeframe for the instruments to work and for the limits to be respected. the setting of ambitious air quality limit values and the development of instruments to meet these limits can improve air quality and thus the quality of life in europe in the years ahead. that must be the aim of our action. i would also like to thank jonas sjöstedt. we have finally negotiated the euro 5 standard together. mr sjöstedt was a shadow reporter. i've only been here for 10 months, but jonas, you've grown on me as a colleague. i wish you much success in your life and all the best!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think we have found a good compromise here, combining ambitious objectives with flexible mechanisms. this is a good decision, combined with the fact that there are no passes for those who, even if unwillingly, do not take action on this issue. for example, the transport industry will grow by 60% over the next 20 years. everyone here today has mentioned the importance of a clean environment. so it's not just car manufacturers, it's heating manufacturers, power plants, charging technology. it's a very big, broad area that needs to be addressed here. the industry needs to understand that such standards are ultimately an opportunity for them to sell modern technology worldwide. the automotive industry, and indeed other manufacturers of industrial equipment, must therefore recognise that these standards are an opportunity for them to develop new technologies and to carry out research and innovation. this directive will also lead us to ask who will be researching better fuels in the future. the question of renewable fuels is not the only one that is crucial, but also the question of what we actually have for fuels today. if you ask the automobile industry, the quality is more lacking than good. the automobile industry has been very challenged in recent years, but it has always had to drive relatively poor quality cars. that has to change in the next few years. in ten to fifteen years we will be able to travel five times as far on one litre of petrol as we do today. this is the reason why innovation and research are so important, and why we need environmentally friendly and high standards. dear jonas, you were a good colleague and you've become a good friend. all the best for your future!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. many municipalities already have an ambitious policy on air pollution: modernisation of vehicle fleets, environmental zones, etc. so there must be no reward for inaction. but that is precisely what is to be done with the lazy compromise of the environment committee. the extension of the deadline will be a reward for those who have not done their homework. what kind of european legal system is this, if we are rewarding those who simply do nothing? the stricter pm 2.5 standard was mentioned here. we know that 20 won't help, and neither will 25. then vote for twelve! that is what the green group is proposing, and it is an ambitious proposal. it would be a shame - and i hope that we will not lose sight of the european air quality policy tomorrow - if europe lost sight of its role as a pioneer in the field of the environment and the sustainability of industry, especially the automotive industry. air pollution kills more than 350 000 people in europe, 65 000 of them in germany. so it would be good if we did more than just produce hot air.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank you for the opportunity to discuss this evening the thematic strategy on the urban environment, which the european parliament has been awaiting with great interest from the commission. i would first like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr hegyi, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for the comprehensive and ambitious report before us today. i also welcome the contribution of mr ó neachtain and the committee on transport and tourism and of mrs kallenbach and the committee on regional development. before i continue, i would like to share with you the happy news that last friday the seventh and final thematic strategy for the soil was adopted by the college of commissioners. the development of these strategies has been difficult and time-consuming. but a clear path has now been set for the key environmental issues, which include urban environment policy. the urban environment is an important issue for all of us. with the sixth environment action programme, the commission recognised the role that the urban environment plays in the lives of so many european citizens and committed itself to action in this area. the urban environment directly affects the way of life of millions of european citizens and also has significant effects on the environment in general. european cities must be viable, sustainable and offer a high quality of life so that citizens want to live and work there and businesses want to invest. however, much still remains to be done. it is clear that urban areas promote economic development and have high levels of supply and access to public services such as education, health and transport. the other side is that the many problems associated with living in cities, such as environmental degradation, traffic congestion, economic and social exclusion, crime and alienation. the strategy aims to promote and facilitate sustainable urban development and focuses on environmental issues: air pollution, outdoor noise, high traffic levels, greenhouse gas emissions, slum building, water consumption and waste generation. trouble spotting is easy. but finding solutions is much harder. this is particularly true where the aim is to find solutions which could be both experimental and sustainable, appropriate to the multiplicity and variety of conditions and problems faced by the different cities of the european union. this is why, although the european commission and the committee on the environment agree on the substance, they differ on how they should proceed. some have called for more legislation and targets that will bring about improvements. i can understand that theoretically and i can agree in principle. i wish it were possible to do that. unfortunately, this is not useful or feasible and there are good reasons why the strategy does not favour new legislation: more specifically, the reason is that solutions must comply with the principle of subsidiarity and that our cities are so different from each other that there is no one solution for all. there are already legislative acts which will have positive effects on the urban environment if properly implemented. legislation already exists that has a positive impact on the environment and the quality of life in cities. consider, for example, all the legislation we have on air quality, noise, waste and water - to name just a few of the issues it covers. however, this legislation needs to be better implemented. instead of legislative solutions, the strategy proposes guidance on how to improve urban management in an integrated way and increase sustainability in transport to be included in the green paper on urban transport expected to be adopted in 2007. this will lead to better compliance with the applicable environmental legislation and to improved coherence between different policies and different levels of government. it is the approach that has been clearly and repeatedly stated as being preferred by all the stakeholders with whom we have consulted. this approach will be complemented by other support measures such as the establishment of appropriate structures, the exchange of best practices, training and incentives from the community's structural funds. member states should include urban issues in national programmes for funding from community cohesion policy so that regional and local authorities can benefit from the available funding opportunities.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. the commission is not i thank mr hegyi for the very ambitious report and the very good and fruitful cooperation. on behalf of the committee of the regions, i particularly and explicitly welcome the special attention paid to sustainable urban and transport planning. the urban planning of the future must of course combine ecological, economic and social aspects; it must include the promotion of employment opportunities and of education, culture and sport for young and old alike. we must finally reduce land use and reuse industrial wasteland. we call on the member states and the regions to take this into account when drawing up the operational programmes which are now under way. this will not only benefit the local environment but also be an excellent way of communicating the objectives of european policies to the local citizens. it's about time.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, particularly for his willingness to discuss this matter. i know, mr president, that we both want the same thing, namely a livable environment in the large cities and conurbations of the european union. but we clearly disagree on how to achieve this goal. i myself think the commission's approach is correct. a thematic strategy, that's all it is. no legislative proposals are made. we have no jurisdiction to do that. guidelines can be published and, of course, they can refer to existing regulations, e.g. on air, noise, waste, etc. the exchange of experience can be encouraged and supported, including financially. because we know that not everyone has to reinvent the wheel over and over again. the reporter is trying to save his hometown of budapest. that's honorable of you. but it also tries to circumvent the principle of subsidiarity. he wants to see binding action. he wants to undermine the planning authority of the local and regional authorities, he wants to intervene. that is wrong, colleague. this is how you fuel the citizens' dissatisfaction with the european union. i therefore want to make a few changes to your report together with my group. for example, environmental protection is important. but it must not lead to the impossibility of running a business. the quality of life in cities depends on the quality of the environment and the economic vitality. city-money is not the answer, either. of course we need environmentally friendly modes of transport, buses, trains, bicycles, etc. but it is wrong to ban individual transport, the car, from the cities. this only encourages the development of shopping centres on the green meadow, the dispersal of the countryside. people are leaving the cities, inner cities are being devastated. the quality of life in the city is declining. and it's unreasonable to ask cities to do things that they simply can't do. this includes data collection up to local use of biocides. that includes the flea powder i spray on my dog! we're making a fool of ourselves. we must ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is respected. i think that is our task and that is the direction our amendments are going in.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to say at the outset that the report we are debating and voting on tomorrow states that we are giving the president of parliament a discharge. i therefore regret very much that the president of the european parliament is not taking part in this debate. i'd like to point out that he has a special obligation here. we had actually completed the discharge of parliament's 2004 budget in april. but thanks to careful reading of the local newspaper here in strasbourg, we have been alerted to an incident which certainly cannot be overstated in its drama. i find it unacceptable that, despite the fact that the parliament's administration was informed by the city of strasbourg in november 2005 that it was still negotiating with a dutch pension fund about the two buildings - ipe 1 and ipe 2, as they are called - the parliament's administration and also the bureau of the parliament have advanced the purchase negotiations and it was only through our initiative that we were able to prevent this purchase. and what we've found in the process of working through this -- and i want to focus the few minutes i have on this essentially -- is that this is a story that can be seen. the european parliament, in 1979, when it was directly elected for the first time, said: 'we need office space'. there's nothing against it. it asked the city of strasbourg to make these rooms available. there is no objection to that either. the city of strasbourg has stated that we cannot afford to do this ourselves, and we are going to commission a third party, namely the dutch pension fund, to build an office building. we have therefore created a chain lease relationship which has resulted in the fact that we have paid between 30 and 60 million euros - here we have different studies - more to the city of strasbourg in rent payments than it has then passed on to the pension fund, although the committee on budgets of the european parliament and the quaestors decided in 1980 that no more should be paid to the city of strasbourg than it passes on to this pension fund. it was the bureau of the european parliament which in 1983 checked whether the rents were acceptable and developed a new system, namely the use of a comparable rent calculation. on this basis, the rent was then recalculated. it was the wish of the city of strasbourg, during the high inflationary period in the french republic in the 1980s, to index the lease without a time limit. the report i am presenting today therefore essentially comes to two conclusions. firstly, the administration of this beautiful building, the european parliament, has never looked at the lease agreements we have concluded with the city of strasbourg since 1983 at the latest. this is unacceptable! the introduction of the euro, for example, has made indexation irrelevant, to give a very specific example. and secondly, strasbourg, as the city which hosts the european parliament, has not set an example of good cooperation and trust between the institution and the city. i would like to make that very clear. we have found in all our checks that there has been no corruption, no fraud, no mismanagement, no misuse of funds. i am very sorry that the colleague who has sometimes sat here with a breathing mask because he said it smelled like corruption is not here today. we have not had to decide whether it is wise to have the seat of the european parliament set out in the european treaties. i am very sorry that the honourable member who lives in brussels and is probably living a sad existence in the youth hostel in strasbourg is not here today and has not contributed to the work on this report. we had to work through what had happened in the past. we did. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to this. we have not had to decide where the european parliament is to be seated, because that is the infinite wisdom of the heads of state and government. as you know, it's well-kept. so, thank you to everyone who's been involved. i am sorry for all those who tried to make a media campaign out of it but never took part in the real work of the working party and the committee on budgetary control. despite all these remarks and with proposals for the future, we are giving discharge for 2004. we shall, however, take up further developments in subsequent reports in due course.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'd also like 25% speaking time as a bonus. the 28 years of the strasbourg building contracts make me think. (the president cut the speaker off) it leaves me with lingering doubts about the professionalism of the building management of this house and the will of its financiers regarding value for money. for 28 years, the parliament's administration failed to check whether the contracts were still economic - even after the initial capital costs had been amortised, even after the treaty of amsterdam in 1997 had introduced the contractual protection of strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament and the risk shield had been abolished at that time. for many years, the rent was exorbitant. the european parliament and the european taxpayer suffered considerable losses, as even the expert on behalf of the french republic admits: between 28 and 32 million euros at least. who is responsible for this? why did the internal audit of this house fail so badly? there are no answers to these questions. i resent that. as a member of parliament, i will and we will all ensure that these issues are not forgotten. these questions need to be pursued. tomorrow 80 million euros are to be released for the purchase of these buildings, which we have actually already paid for. we're even getting a building as a gift. we don't know what kind of legacy it has. under considerable time pressure, a contract was concluded without renegotiating the purchase price in the light of the contract history. if this treaty is of the same quality as the old treaties, then we shall meet again here in the foreseeable future.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, i would just like to point out what i said in my speech, when you were not here: i expect the president of parliament to be present at the next discharge.
member of the commission. mr president, as i said to mr sifunakis, this is a special group of reports confirming that cultural education gets a momentum in these discussions. i would first of all like to express my gratitude to mrs trüpel of the committee on culture and education, but also to the other committees involved in this report because others were engaged, and also to the political groups for their constructive discussions with the presidency and with the commission that have led us to the agreement on this recommendation on key competences. all institutions have made efforts in order to find a balanced text and to allow a first reading agreement. we all agreed on the importance of this proposal for european citizens and for developing consistent and comprehensive lifelong learning strategies which should help europe to fulfil its goal of becoming a europe of knowledge, a knowledge-friendly union. the purpose of this recommendation is to identify and define the skills that everyone needs for living, learning and working in a knowledge society. it covers the traditional skills such as literacy and information communication technologies – digital grammar – but it also goes beyond them by including skills which are important for citizenship, for living together in more and more varied societies. i believe that this recommendation after approval should be translated as quickly as possible into concrete measures in order to help people in their studies and training. our aim is to improve citizens’ employability, job opportunities and chances for the future. i think that a lot of work was done, especially by mrs trüpel and her colleagues, to analyse, discuss and amend our initial proposal. as a result of the successful negotiations, i think a number of clarifications and improvements have been made, while keeping the text short and concise. i think that the recommendation now better addresses the literacy problem and the need for equal opportunities, the need for procedures to validate skills and to evaluate achievements. target groups now include those with low skills and specific groups such as people returning to work; moreover, a number of definitions of competences have been clarified. this report, together with some other reports and with the programme which we will have from new year 2007 for lifelong learning, could create much better conditions for the value of knowledge, for the value of qualifications and for a knowledge-friendly europe. i appreciate the strong support in this parliament – whether we speak about the programme or legislative tools – for education and learning and training policies. i would like to thank you all for your cooperation in achieving this base for a recommendation and also i look forward to further support when we come to implementation. (applause)
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, commissioner figeľ, i would like to thank you for your opening remarks and for the way in which you have so clearly presented the spirit of this agreement at first reading and the way in which our joint work has improved the text, making it more socially sensitive and balanced, despite its ambition, and making it a joint success of our work. let me take a quick look back: the starting point for the recommendation on key competences for lifelong learning is the changing situation in the world. in the global economy, europe has only one chance if we educate and train our people better. this is why education policy should and must be a central part of the lisbon strategy. our future prospects as a resource-poor continent in the global economy are particularly linked to resources, education and research. the qualities and qualifications of people are our future potential. this is why the member states and the european union need to invest more in education and have a clearer idea of what the skills needed in the knowledge society are. this is why the recommendations on the eight key competences were developed. i repeat, these are only recommendations. the eight key competences are: first, native language competence; second, foreign language competence; third, mathematical competence and basic scientific and technical competence; fourth, computer skills; fifth, learning competence; sixth, interpersonal, intercultural and social competence and citizenship competence; seventh, entrepreneurial competence; and eighth, cultural competence. these key skills are all necessary for social cohesion, employability, but also for personal development. support member states in their policies to ensure that all young people have the key competences necessary for entering adulthood at the end of their initial education and that adults can develop and update these competences throughout their lives. there is no hierarchy between the key competences. they're all equal, but they overlap, of course. they all contribute to a successful life in the knowledge society. these competences are defined as a combination of knowledge, skills and attitudes. key competences are those that we all need to be personally satisfied in the knowledge society, which we need for personal development, for active participation, for social integration and for employment. the human image behind this definition of key skills is humanistic, and the whole spirit of this recommendation is based on the view that skills are not only seen in terms of their usefulness, but that education is always a value in itself. critical thinking, creativity, taking initiative, problem solving, risk taking, decision making and entrepreneurial talent - all these attitudes are part of the understanding of key skills. i think it is politically correct to give the member states, with these definitions, guidelines for their education policy so that they can better prepare themselves for the future. it was particularly important to me to make clear in the negotiations with the council and the commission that, in the ambition of these key skills, we all need to learn more and more to be successful and satisfied in the knowledge society the social aspect is not forgotten. because not all people have the same starting conditions and the same opportunities. this is why it is particularly important to support people with learning difficulties due to their origin, social situation, school drop-outs, people with low literacy, the long-term unemployed or people who want to return to work after a long break, and especially women after the baby-break. all these conditions must be taken into account in order to enable people in particular to take advantage of their educational opportunities. after several rounds of negotiations with the council, we have been able to agree on a recommendation which is socially sensitive, which emphasises gender equality and which is at the same time very ambitious. i think that's a good compromise. i therefore recommend that all members adopt this text in the form of an agreement at first reading. i would like to thank my colleagues, the commission and the council very sincerely for the constructive and interesting negotiations. (applause from the centre)
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. last year, 10% of all adults in the european union took part in continuing training. far too little to be adequately qualified in the age of globalisation. we need the citizen learner at all stages of life. key competences need to be acquired and continuously updated, such as mastery of mother tongue and foreign languages, technical and mathematical knowledge, social competence and intercultural awareness. the european level helps to develop these skills and thus to promote the employability of the individual. the committee on employment and social affairs adopted my opinion, in which we reached compromise across the groups, unanimously. i was referring to an area which is not yet clearly defined in the commission's draft, namely the better consideration of disadvantaged groups such as the disabled, the longterm unemployed and school leavers. they are made to acquire new knowledge on their own. they need tailor-made offers to make up for shortfalls. young people in high-unemployment neighborhoods also feel lonely and frustrated. they need psychological support, special care, so that they can gain self-confidence and be motivated to work to improve living conditions for themselves and their families. the aim of lifelong learning is to develop key skills and to be able to adapt to change, but above all to actively shape change itself. the committee is in favour of a review and publication of competences at national, regional and local level every three years. it is only then that it will become clear in which areas concrete progress has been made.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i thank mrs trüpel for the excellent cooperation which paved the way for agreement at first reading. the challenge of globalisation is enormous. citizens are being forced to adapt more and more quickly and flexibly to new conditions. the dual role of education, both social and economic, is of strategic importance. if we want equal opportunities in europe, we must ensure that education is accessible to all and that disadvantages whether due to personal, social, cultural or economic circumstances are reduced. this is particularly true in the run-up to the 'european year of equal opportunities for all'. the lisbon strategy, with its ambitious goal of making europe the most economically dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, cannot afford to leave large sections of the population out of the picture. the socialist group therefore welcomes the reference framework which covers the eight key competences outlined by mrs trüpel. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. people with learning disabilities, school drop-outs, long-term unemployed and those returning to work after a family phase - women first and foremost - but also older people, migrants and disabled people need to be supported in their efforts by targeted policies and programmes such as lifelong learning, knowing that education systems are mainly regulated in the member states and are also very differently organised. i therefore call for a rapid agreement on a european reference framework. small-scale statecraft in education and lifelong learning would be capitulation to today's challenges, which ultimately determine the success or failure of the european economic and social model.
the commission has already done so. i am always glad when we talk about education policy, because then everyone thinks in the same direction and tries to move forward. we rarely argue about culture and education. that's wonderful. we just don't have any money. that is the problem we all share. i am therefore pleased that we have also launched the mobility charter under the new lifelong learning programme and that we are talking today about the key competences which can only be considered as recommendations because we are not competent. we can make suggestions. i was in sarajevo eight days ago for a big conference on lifelong learning. we were talking about the key competences. everyone is adopting this concept. i think that it is a wonderful signal when we make such suggestions, which are then also implemented in countries which are not yet members of the european union. i would like to note positively that there will be a reference framework for key competences, which are a tool for adapting to a changing labour market in a knowledge-based society. i would also like to welcome the fact that this proposal will further develop national strategies for lifelong learning and thus also promote curriculum reforms and, of course, promote a uniform provision of adult and continuing training in the member states. i also welcome the recommendation on the inclusion of people with special needs - this has been discussed several times - and the introduction of the european dimension in civic competence, that is, knowledge of our european history and the strengthening of awareness of european cultural identity. i would encourage you to buy the franco-german history book that has been on the market for just three months. it is wonderful, it shows what european identity means. in conclusion, i would like to appeal to you not to turn this recommendation into an over-ambitious utopia, like the one we envisage for 2010. the superlative, we can't really say anything with it. let us make it a realistic opportunity for all citizens to acquire and develop basic skills.
member of the commission. the theme of european identity, european values, european borders and european citizenship has never been so much discussed as it is today. of course, we can't define them exactly, but it's a certain expression of the shift of europe, which previously not only debated, but had to control coal and steel production, not to wage wars, to debate itself and the world in which it finds itself. i think that's a positive move. education about what europe has been through, what it is living in, what unites and divides it is very important for its own development, but also for the world in the 21st century, in which europe can and should play a much more important and positive role than it did in the 20th century, when it was the source of tragedies, wars, totalitarianism and other world problems. the greatest source of intolerance is ignorance, apathy, and indifference. they create a space for propaganda, manipulation of public or individual opinion. i therefore believe that education about what europe's history and present is and has been, about the cultures in which we find ourselves and in which we live, is a very important prerequisite for a more peaceful and cohesive europe, which will further develop its own rights, its own views on values, its own culture. i believe more peaceful and tolerant than before, when they were killing each other. i would like to thank christopher beazley once again for this own-initiative report and express the hope that this topic will also be part of the debate in the member states, since they are responsible for the content and organisation of education, and that it will not be seen as superfluous but as a very important complementary aspect, since we are in the same legal, political, economic and cultural area of the enlarged union.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner figel, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european union cannot compete with the low wages and low social standards of the emerging countries. we must instead develop our potential for quality work consistently. qualified education and training are essential prerequisites for this. in march 2005, the education ministers of the 25 eu member states agreed to modernise their national systems. the aim is to enable individuals to adapt to the increasing demands of domestic and international labour markets. barriers to access to education and training between institutions and member states are still high. neither can knowledge and skills be used effectively, nor are qualifications transparent. the result is that qualifications acquired outside one's own country are not yet sufficiently recognized. the more transparent the systems of schools, vocational training and universities are, the more likely it is to be possible to judge the specific models in the member states, for example in my country - germany - the quality of the dual system and the value of a master's degree. the european qualifications framework is a meta-framework with three tasks. firstly, it is intended to link national and international qualifications. secondly, it should ensure that qualifications are recognised, comparable and transferable. and thirdly, it should provide greater transparency, permeability and mobility. the eqf is based on eight reference levels which describe learning outcomes. they start with basic skills for simple tasks and progress to strong academic skills. the aim is to provide the opportunity to acquire vocational competence at each of these eight levels, regardless of the educational path followed. there was broad agreement among the social partners, the chambers of commerce and industry, the craft industry, the education authorities, the vocational training teachers, the trainees and trainers, the pupils and students, because everyone knows that this is not a substitute for the member states' measures but a complement to them, and that implementation should be based on a voluntary basis. as rapporteur for the european parliament, i have criticised some of the points in the commission's proposal where too much emphasis is placed on academic training and not enough on vocational training. i also lack an even clearer link to the labour market. the eqf must be guided by the lisbon ii objectives of growth and employment, and thus by the competitiveness of enterprises on the one hand and the employability of individuals on the other. i have shared my concerns in the committee on employment and social affairs and i was very pleased to see the proposals put forward by my colleagues - there are many of them here - and the unanimous adoption of three abstentions. we support, among other things, the reorientation of the qualifications framework towards the comparability of the outcomes of learning processes. it is a marked departure from many previous evaluations, which have been based solely on the duration of learning and the type of qualifications. the most important thing for us is that vocational and academic education are equivalent, they are two sides of the same coin: the bologna process with the aim of a common european higher education area and the copenhagen process to strengthen european cooperation in vocational education and training. the european qualifications framework will only be successful if national qualifications frameworks are established in all member states, can be further developed and then linked to the eqf in a reasonable way by 2009. i hope that its contents will be made available to a wide audience - we in the european parliament will certainly contribute to this - and that the social partners, education providers and institutions will cooperate in a spirit of trust. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
thank you, colleague. we'll pass that along to the president. i'm sure he'll make the necessary arrangements.
the next item is the report by mr rapkay, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the commission's white paper on services of general interest (2006/2101 (ini)) (a6-0275/2006).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is not common for the president of the commission to take part in a discussion on an own-initiative report. the commission's proposal is not a new one. our real job is to legislate. i'll get to that. the fact that you are here today shows that the commission itself is aware of the importance of this issue for the citizens and, therefore, of course, for us as members of parliament representing the citizens of europe. i would therefore like to follow the example of one of mr barroso's predecessors, not just any predecessor, but jacques delors, who tried to place the provision of services in the context of european integration a few months ago before a committee of the committee of the regions. he told the committee of the regions that the european construction framework was based on three principles: solidarity, which brings together and is based on the objectives of social, economic and territorial cohesion; cooperation, which is intended to enable the transnational and european aspirations of the eu treaties and programmes to be implemented; and competition, which is intended to enable the completion of the internal market and to be the basis of the rules of the social market economy, and which is governed by a competition law which is a democratic law, in particular to limit the abuse of economic power and to ensure consumer protection. the three principles of the sgei and the sgei are reflected in these three principles. relations between the vertices of such a triangle, however, always involve tension. in this area of services of general and general economic interest, they are obvious. public services are an essential element of the quality of life of individual citizens. they also have a key role to play in the european union's lisbon strategy. good public services can help to overcome economic stagnation, social exclusion and isolation, strengthen social and territorial cohesion and improve the functioning of the european internal market and its competitiveness both internally and externally. however, when i discuss with local politicians and those who provide these services in my home region and in other regions, i always find myself confronted with the complaints that we interfere with their competence, that we make their tasks more difficult, that we do not make clear the conditions under which they can work. they say they don't have any legal certainty. it would therefore be important to take appropriate legislative initiatives to provide such legal certainty. i would like to say to those who ask in this debate what we really wanted, we had the commission making communications and issuing guidelines, and we had the european court of justice speaking the law, that this is clearly not enough. not only that, but it is actually contributing to this legal uncertainty in some cases. the commission's communications and guidelines do not create legal certainty. it may suggest that it creates legal certainty, but a communication is not a written right that you can rely on. we really need to take legislative initiatives and we are making proposals to this effect, which i do not want to list all of them. but i say to you, mr president of the commission, make use of your right of initiative, which is also an obligation to take initiative. the building blocks for these legislative initiatives are contained in the resolution we are voting on tomorrow. they are also contained in the resolutions we have already adopted, such as the langen report or the herzog report. we are not presenting a specific instrument. it's your job to teach this instrument. we ourselves must evaluate the legislative proposals put forward by the commission, each group for itself. we shall do so by means of what we have proposed as a group - a proposal for a framework directive. we'll discuss that further. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we must then work together in parliament to push for legislation. this can only work in the co-decision procedure. we need legislative initiatives in the codecision procedure, because it is not you and your colleagues in the commission and the highly qualified and well-motivated staff in the commission, nor the national governments, but we, the members of parliament, who are directly elected. we must discuss and answer to local politicians and others. we are held accountable for our actions. that is why the codecision procedure must be applied and why full parliamentary rights must be guaranteed.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the socialist group has made the report by my colleague mr rapkay and the question of services of general interest a central part of its work in this parliamentary term. we have done an extraordinary job in formulating our own draft directive, which essentially incorporates the elements introduced by bernhard rapkay in his report. i had the honour of handing it over to you, mr president of the commission, and to mr schüssel, then president of the council. in the debate on services - and i will come to some of the main elements of this debate - it is important for us to achieve a strategy of balancing the needs of the internal market, which we as social democrats see and recognise, but also the protection of citizens by strengthening local and regional institutions, which are still the best in terms of service provision, in order to maintain the principle of subsidiarity. flexibility where necessary, protection where possible - that is the essential message that must emerge from this debate. the fact that after all the barcelona, laeken and nice councils, after all the debates we have had, you, mr president of the commission, have come here today to present your views, we regard as an underlining of the importance of this debate by the commission. we're grateful to you. that is why i, as chairman of our group, am speaking in this debate. i have to emphasize for our group what bernhard rapkay, as rapporteur, said on this report. but let me make two additional remarks: i listened very carefully to what mr hökmark said. it is interesting that a committed liberal is trying to get the curve on this issue. of course, we are all in favour of this single market and we all want it to spark the economic dynamism it can. we share your view. but it is already difficult to apply the principle of subsidiarity, which the liberals usually demand on the basis of principle. but if it comes to the point where certain social standards which are indispensable can be guaranteed by the principle of subsidiarity, then suddenly this is an obstacle. you can't do that! i don't know if it's desirable that all health care services actually have to be subject to the free market. i do not know whether we should sit back and watch the last of the municipal cemeteries being run on a private basis. i don't think that makes sense. we still need to ensure that, within the framework of subsidiarity, local and regional authorities are empowered to provide high quality services, but with a direct link to citizens and their needs. this is a central part of social democratic policy which we will not abandon. but we also want to see the possibility of introducing good quality through flexibility and openness, and of local and regional authorities using the internal market to be able to impose flexibility on their own free choice and to provide good and affordable services. it's possible to do both. we have listened very carefully, mr president, when you said that you wanted to consolidate the legal framework as a whole. the fact that you have recognised the need for a legal framework is a great step forward. and the fact that you want to consolidate now suggests that you want to do it broadly and not sectorally. i imagine we can meet on that level relatively quickly. i would like to say on behalf of our group that what we have done here - to write our own draft directive - in combination with what mr rapkay has said and the president's remarks will convince you, madam vice-president, that we are on the right track. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to present the committee's decision and not my own opinion, although they are broadly in agreement. the committee adopted 18 points by a large majority, and these were largely taken up in mr rapkay's report. we have therefore found a large majority in this resolution because we were able to develop a common strategy on the basis of previous resolutions of the european parliament. i am very pleased that the president of the commission is here. but the fact that there is another communication coming at the end of the year does not satisfy me at all. since 2000, we have been moving from one communication to another, from one interpretation to another, without having cleared up the legal uncertainties. the commission must step over its shadow, overcome the reluctance of the commissioner for competition and finally clarify some of the matters that otherwise need to be clarified by the european court of justice. that does not mean - and the committee on industry, research and energy has said so - that we are in favour of a framework directive. there is no legal basis for this, not even in the draft constitution. it is obvious that we want the codecision procedure in as many areas as possible. but if we are to make decisions that go beyond our competence, then that is not right. we have adopted several principles which are in line with what the president of the commission has said here: the principle of subsidiarity, that each level must decide for itself, but must respect the rules of competition, that aid must be transparent and that the commission has a monitoring system for abuse. in this context, we can adopt a good opinion today, based on the rapkay report, with a directive for the commission. the commission must now do something.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. public transport, waste management, social services, water supply - we all agree that this is the responsibility of the regions. i welcome the fact that the rapkay report is similar in principle; the report has taken account of the opinion of the committee on regional development on many points. we are calling for a commitment to subsidiarity, but we are also calling for greater legal certainty where there are conflicts between the provision of social services and european competition law: in aid law, in the field of ppps, in social services, even in the definition of terms. the french do not understand welfare as a pole, a swede or a german does. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not want uniform eu standards. it is not necessary to tell the regions of greece or the czech republic what they should understand by services of public interest. unfortunately, the left in parliament has pushed through several paragraphs in the report which could indirectly point to such a framework directive. makes me wonder what you want. do you want to add to the legal uncertainty by introducing a framework directive? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in both cases, we are saying no. where there is legal uncertainty, we must resolve it on a case-by-case basis and sector by sector. it's still a lot of work. i am convinced, however, that only the sectoral approach can live up to the european idea of subsidiarity in the common internal market. europe cannot impose quality and cost criteria here. the definition, financing and organisation of public services must remain the responsibility of the regions, because the regions also bear political responsibility for them.
i am sure that in the second half of the parliamentary term we will have to think again about whether the rapporteurs for the committees responsible and the rapporteurs for the committees which deliver opinions should do what mr langen has just said: whatever the group they come from, they reflect the opinion and vote of the committee. i'm sure everyone did that today. if you doubt that, you can read the reports again. i am not so familiar with the subject and i have been surprised by some of the contributions, but we will certainly be able to look at this again in the next parliamentary term - perhaps in the context of parliamentary reform. finally, mrs stauner has the opportunity to present the committee's position.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. although it has been enshrined in the ec treaty since maastricht, the principle of subsidiarity has nevertheless been a shadow. subsidiarity is always applicable, however, unless the exclusive competence lies at european level. the services in question today are clearly not. so any european regulation in this area would clearly be a breach of the principle of subsidiarity. it would also be contrary to the principles of necessity and proportionality of the rule of law to interfere with established and functioning structures in the member states. but if there are no responsibilities for the eu, there can be no definition of these services by europe. the only way to define this is through national or regional legislation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. no lisbon strategy or any other strategy can replace a legal basis. this is also true of maxims and objectives such as competition and economic and social cohesion. the result of our discussion can therefore only be: hands off from a european regulation for services of general interest because there is no european legal basis for it! i would ask you to follow the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights on a europe that is close to its citizens, that is understandable and that can be understood.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. for over a decade, europe has been liberalising in a brutal and ruthless way. basic services such as energy, transport, education, health, housing and hospitals are being left to the rules of the market and profit, partly under the auspices of brussels' liberalization regulations, partly under pressure from the european court of justice, partly on the initiative of neoliberal governments - allegedly because this creates jobs, allegedly because more competition would bring lower prices to consumers, allegedly because private investors would operate more efficiently. the liberalization record of the past decade is a clear refutation of these neoliberal lies. hundreds of thousands of jobs have been destroyed in the energy and postal sectors alone. those who still have jobs are working mostly under worse conditions. this can be touted as an increase in efficiency. but it can also be called forced exploitation in name. consumers have rarely benefited from the fall in costs. in germany, for example, electricity has never been so expensive as it is today. the fact that the rapkay report proclaims this balance sheet a success and calls for further sectoral liberalization is ignorant of the experience gained and inconsiderate of those who will have to bear the consequences. the demand to subject social security to the rules of the internal market is to make health, education and mobility commodities that only the well-to-do can afford, because capitalist markets do not meet needs. they are always guided by the demand for the goods that can be paid for, because that is the only way to make a profit. this is the kind of europe the rich and the big corporations may dream of. the left has other dreams! we will not stop resisting this unfettered capitalism together with the social movements in europe.
mr president, mr president of the commission! we're discussing a broad spectrum area today. mr schulz has given the municipal cemetery a new lease of life. however, municipal structures can also reach the size of a group, which is the full range. whether these large structures are always correct is questionable. why are we even having this discussion? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it can be quite a biting experience, and what comes out of it is not always rigorous. i am a strong supporter of subsidiarity, of local rules. the single definition in a europe of possibly 27 - if we anticipate today's decision - will produce a single definition, which i reject. but europe must always ask itself: what is the best thing about european action, what is the benefit to the citizen in this area? why are we discussing the framework directive in such detail today when the rapporteur himself says that his report does not call for a framework directive in this area? i have the impression that some speakers are simply and forcefully trying to create, through this debate and in combination with the services directive, regions which are excluded from competition. the danger is that, in addition to the abolition of market rules, we will come to a european concept of provision, a common european concept. that cannot be the aim, because europe is too heterogeneous for that. but what the citizens, the municipalities and the local politicians rightly demand is legal certainty. they want to know what's possible and what's not. there's a lot of confusion. i take my home town of munich as an example. there are four large hospitals being brought into a company at the moment, and you do not know what you have to submit to the commission and what you do not have to submit. the commission is called upon to do this, together with parliament, because what our group is also very concerned about is that the commission is going a little too far in its 'willpower', in line with the motto that you always decide exactly how you think is right, and do not consult the legitimate representatives, the legitimate voters. the last point is crucial - and this is where the debate is overdue - the citizen must understand why what we are doing is good for him. that's not always the case, especially in this area. what we do here is not the same as what we do at home. that would be a communication strategy task.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. social services are at the heart of the european social model. that was your first sentence, mr barroso. but at the same time you are praising the efficiency of the market and not solidarity, universal access and fundamental rights as the primacy of such services. however, citizens expect the european union to make it clear that the services they need to live are guaranteed as a basic necessity for them, and that they are universal, that is to say, regardless of their social status and place of residence. we can only win the confidence of the people if the services of the public service enjoy a fundamental protection against market interests and are not associated with them. if you combine social security with market efficiency, mr barroso, you are trying to dismantle the heart of the european social model. you are delighted with the calls in this house for the sectoral approach which gives you all the power to liberalise basic services. the recent examples in your communication on social services are very clear here. the basic social services are redefined as economic activities. they are reinterpreting the definition of european court judgments. your proposals for health services, where patient mobility should take precedence over primary care, also speak a language of their own. it shows that it is an illusion to believe that the market can guarantee fundamental rights. the protection of these services of general interest can only be guaranteed by a clear framework directive which does not subject services intended to serve the general public to the rules of european competition law. these are services which are of course guaranteed to receive state subsidies and whose task is to guarantee basic services and not to give priority to market interests. the services of the social security system, which are of an economic nature, can also be used for basic care. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. in this respect, such a framework directive must be a counterpart to the services directive in order to guarantee precisely this protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in this sense, this is a sham discussion on the part of the right wing, which believes that it is simply possible to look back and that the sectoral approach or the non-definition at european level is a solution.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation he has had in the economic committee. i hope this good cooperation continues until tomorrow. i am also grateful that the importance of this report is being presented as a way forward for the future of local services, or in other words, for the future of services of general interest. the length of the debate makes this clear. anyone who has worked for many years in local and regional politics knows that politics for citizens starts at their own doorstep and that despite the diversity of european structures, the right to local self-government and thus the competence of local authorities must remain intact, also from the point of view of subsidiarity. this means that local authorities have an important role to play in defining and organising services of general interest. it is essential to find all the appropriate ways of providing these services at the lowest possible cost to the citizen. this means, of course, that public and private providers must be involved together as partners. we should continue to call on all parties to take a path whereby the limited market activity in the municipal environment is not necessarily subject to the procedure of all european rules, so as not to divert the municipalities from this path of public-private partnerships which is beneficial for citizens. what we need is legal certainty that encourages the creativity of municipalities in the delivery of their services, does not burden them with red tape and allows for long-term planning. creativity and a guaranteed right of local self-government based on legal certainty can provide crucial impetus for the contribution of local authorities to european economic growth.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to the development of this subject. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president of the commission, what you said this morning i thought was a very adequate response to the concern expressed by the socialist group in its draft framework directive. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the internal market, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the internal market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal framework is not distorted. it remains to be seen whether this can be resolved sufficiently in the form of a communication which you have put forward. in any case, i believe that a communication is a more appropriate approach to the problem than a framework directive would have been. because - as mr radwan has already said - we must look at the dilemma between the market and subsidiarity much more closely from the citizen's point of view. the european social model - i always wonder how one can always refer to the european social model without saying anything concrete about it - is something that a citizen, a consumer, wants to have available to him everywhere in europe at the lowest possible price. mr hudghton is quite right in praising the scottish local authorities who have been able to offer their services at very low market prices. if they are to do so in the future, they must be given the appropriate legal certainty. but that does not mean that the market can be levelled at this point.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what lasts long, finally becomes good. we are today adopting the largest employment and social action programme the european union has ever seen. progress stands for progress and social solidarity, as its name suggests. that is why it was important to us that progress should start on time, as planned, at the beginning of january 2007. that is precisely what we are going to be able to ensure with this vote now that the council has moved in our favour. i would like to thank all those who have helped make progress what it is today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has been repeatedly complained in the past that the existing multiannual programmes - i.e. those on the labour market, social inclusion, anti-discrimination and equal opportunities - are not sufficient to really implement our social policy agenda as intended, to really speed up the exchange of good practice on policies, concepts and measures among member states and to develop further indicators and more targeted measures together. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a step in the right direction. this is where progress comes in. it is not just bringing together the programmes of the past, but also improving the structures of cooperation and involving all levels of policy-making. this includes, for example, promoting networking and mutual learning at cross-border, national, regional and local levels, and not just at european level. i am very pleased that we have finally convinced the commission and the council to continue to promote the transnational exchange of experience, because where else but here can we get the european added value we have always called for? but in order to disseminate the results of studies and analyses, the lessons learned and best practice more rapidly, we will also have a forum in the future, whose task will be to evaluate and implement the social policy agenda, and which will also be involved in the further development of strategies and in the definition of new priorities. it is also very important to me that we have succeeded in significantly strengthening the role of the social partners and the non-governmental organisations compared with the commission's original proposal. they are now also involved in the constructive monitoring and further development of the strategies and are not limited in their work to the mere pursuit of european objectives. we have also strengthened our own influence as a parliament. we are fully involved in both implementation and evaluation. for the first time, the commission's implementation reports will also be sent to us and not just to the programme committee. i would like to thank you in particular, commissioner špidla. without your support, we would not have been able to establish the concept of gender mainstreaming, which is more than just a concept, in all the languages as well as we have done.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it is wrong, on the basis of fundamental considerations, to call for a rollcall vote immediately before the vote. we're not afraid to put our name on it. but i think that, on principle, it is not right, because there is a precedent.
in writing. the vote on the 2004 discharge report (european parliament) was postponed to clarify the incidents in the lease of the strasbourg building. the european parliament then paid up to eur 60 million in additional payments to the city of strasbourg. the european parliament shall not be entitled to compensation for the losses it has suffered. in addition, there were also deficiencies in honesty, transparency and determination. despite these facts, the decision to buy the strasbourg building is to be taken. the fdp in the european parliament believes that it is wrong for the european parliament to buy the buildings in strasbourg. the european parliament cannot be bound to strasbourg for a long time. that is why we have rejected the requests. the fdp supports the establishment of the european institute of technology in strasbourg and is in favour of a single seat for parliament in brussels.
in writing. we have today voted in favour of the ferber report, although it forms the basis for the purchase of the parliament buildings in strasbourg. but our agreement does not constitute a predetermination of the seat of the european parliament. with over a million other europeans, we have supported the oneseat.eu initiative. we will continue to work with the citizens to move parliament's activities from strasbourg to brussels.
in writing. as the shadow rapporteur of the epp-ed group on the report on the thematic strategy for the urban environment, i have today asked the members of my group to abstain in the final vote. the report attempts to break the principle of subsidiarity. however, i did not think that a strict rejection of the report was justified, since the majority of the content describes existing schemes, calls for the exchange of experience between cities and merely calls for the european commission to draw up guidelines. the improvement of the urban environment through such measures is essential, especially in the new member states.
in writing. i abstained in the vote on the report on the thematic strategy for the urban environment. the report attempts to break the principle of subsidiarity. however, i did not think that a strict rejection of the report was justified, since the majority of the content describes existing schemes, calls for the exchange of experience between cities and merely calls for the european commission to draw up guidelines. the improvement of the urban environment through such measures is essential, especially in the new member states.
in writing. i reject the report. it is not a matter of underestimating the work of our esteemed colleague mr hegy, but of disregarding subsidiarity and thus of the eu's interference in national affairs through its institutions. i do not think that is justified. the fact that europe is always interfering in the daily lives of its citizens, even when it is not necessary, is one of the key factors in the european obsession.
president of the commission. mr president, the commission has just adopted its final report on the accession of bulgaria and romania. our conclusion is that both countries are in a position to take on the rights and obligations of european union membership on 1 january 2007. (applause) the accession of bulgaria and romania will mark an historic achievement: the completion of the fifth enlargement of the european union, which further pursues the reunification of our european family. on this occasion, i would like to congratulate the peoples and authorities of bulgaria and romania for all the efforts they have produced in order to fulfil the conditions for accession to the european union. i would also like to thank you, honourable members, for the constructive role played by parliament. the european parliament has always been a staunch champion of the political, economic and cultural benefits of enlargement. your support has helped to spread peace, stability and prosperity in europe. the most recent enlargement, like others before it, has proved to be a great success. it has confirmed that the enlargement of the union, if carefully managed, produces a win-win situation for both the existing and the acceding member states. enlargement stimulates economic growth and social cohesion and reinforces the role and influence of the european union in the world. the readiness of bulgaria and romania is a direct result of the sustained progress both countries have achieved over the last few years and particularly since our last report in may. the commission takes its responsibility as guardian of the treaties very seriously. first and foremost, we must protect the functioning of the european union. this endorsement of the 2007 accession date for bulgaria and romania is based on a rigorous, fair and objective assessment, as commissioner rehn will explain in detail in a few moments. bulgaria and romania have found the right answer to our strict conditionality by addressing the areas we highlighted in may. in doing so, they have achieved considerable progress. however, today’s report also outlines some areas where both countries need to achieve further progress by sustaining the current reform drive until accession and beyond. the commission has drawn up a number of measures to accompany the accession of bulgaria and romania. in particular, the commission will set up a mechanism for cooperation and verification of progress in the areas of judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime. the mechanism contains specific benchmarks that have to be met. the commission will report regularly to parliament and to the council on the progress achieved. on that basis, the commission may, if necessary, invoke the safeguard measures set out in the accession treaty. the commission has further accompanying measures at its disposal, which will ensure the proper functioning of the union up to and beyond the accession of both countries. european union rules provide us with a comprehensive set of measures that allow us to combat potential risks in acceding and in current member states and to address concerns such as food safety or the management of european taxpayers’ money. the rigorous application of these accompanying measures underlines the emphasis we have placed on conditionality throughout the accession preparations for those countries. we are therefore convinced that, once again, enlargement will proceed smoothly in a way that will strengthen, not compromise, the functioning of the european union. it is important to ensure that, as we enlarge, we are still able to function efficiently. i should like to use this opportunity to state my position concerning future enlargements. after the completion of this fifth enlargement, with the accession of bulgaria and romania, i believe that an institutional settlement should precede any future enlargement. this is the way to ensure that our enlarged union will function in an efficient and harmonious way. in any case, the nice treaty already requires us to adapt our institutional set-up following the accession of the 27th member. last june’s european council conclusions have set the course for that institutional settlement and i hope that by the end of 2008 we will succeed. in following that timetable, we will respect our commitments towards countries for which we have opened up the possibility of accession and fulfil our strategic goal of consolidating peace, democracy and prosperity on our continent. we are looking forward to bulgaria and romania’s historic achievement of european union membership in 2007. i expect both to contribute energetically to the process of european integration. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to join president barroso in congratulating bulgaria and romania on their historic achievement. over the past months, both countries have demonstrated their readiness to join the european union. the key to this success was a combination of substantial bulgarian and romanian efforts with the strong encouragement and support of the union. let me also join president barroso in thanking the european parliament for its continuous support for the gradual and carefully managed accession process to the union. the commission’s assessment is based on an even more rigorous system of conditionality than the one applied in the past. over the past two years in particular, bulgaria and romania have responded strongly to our system of conditionality. this has resulted in a remarkable transformation, with reforms in several sectors peaking over the past three to four months. thus, the strategy we devised together last may has worked well, to the benefit of europe, bulgaria and romania. today’s report focuses on those areas which required further progress in may. the majority of bulgaria’s and romania’s overall preparations had already been completed by that time. in terms of the political criteria, bulgaria has continued the reform of the judiciary. the legal framework has improved, for instance, through the adoption of rules that establish objective procedures for the appointment and evaluation of magistrates, which is very important for the independence of the court systems. the ongoing preparations of constitutional reform in that regard are also very welcome. efforts to combat corruption have resulted in more officials having to declare their personal assets and in the establishment of internal fraud inspectorates. the prosecutor general has continued to be proactive in terms of requests for lifting the immunity of members of parliament. in the fight against organised crime, more specialists have been recruited and some successful actions have been registered against criminal networks. however, at the moment the number of successful prosecutions is still low and the implementation record still needs to be improved. romania has made further progress in reforming its justice system and the results are tangible and positive. the interpretation and application of the law is being further harmonised and staffing levels in the judicial system are increasing. there has been definite and tangible progress in the fight against corruption. criminal liability has been broadened to legal persons and rules on financing for political parties have been tightened. this has led to further non-partisan investigations and indictments of high-level corruption. the report outlines a limited number of areas where we need to see further progress in the months leading up to accession and beyond. therefore, this report also spells out accompanying measures which the commission will initiate upon accession, unless the remaining concerns have been remedied. the commission will set up a mechanism for cooperation and verification of progress in the areas of judicial reform and the fight against corruption and organised crime. for this purpose, as president barroso said, benchmarks have been established which refer to the particular circumstances of each country. the mechanism allows the commission to help the countries to continue the reforms with vigour and rigour, and to verify that the expected progress is taking place on the ground. the commission will also ask both bulgaria and romania to report bi-annually on progress in addressing these specific benchmarks until they have been met. the first report should be submitted by the end of march 2007. we will then report to the european parliament and to the council by june 2007. the commission will also apply the safeguard measures of the accession treaty if either country fails to address the benchmarks adequately. the report also underlines that eu rules contain the necessary guarantees for the proper management of eu agricultural and structural funds. the new regulation on structural funds provides the mechanisms to ensure that these funds, which are of course eu-taxpayers’ money, are spent properly. payments can be interrupted, suspended or cancelled, if the commission suspects or detects cases of irregularities or fraud, including corrupt practices. moreover, further to this range of safeguard measures for the eu funds, financial corrections can take place if individual or systemic irregularities are found in the regular financial controls. there is still a risk that preparations for the management of agricultural funds may not have been completed by the time of accession. as a precaution, we have adopted specific provisions to ensure the proper management of these funds by bulgaria and romania. this gives both countries time to complete preparations in 2007. at the same time, failure to do so will enable the commission to reduce the payments in 2007. of course, we hope that we will not have to resort to this mechanism, which should be seen as an incentive for both bulgaria and romania. as to the third safeguard measure, food safety, some measures are currently in place because of animal diseases. these will be maintained after accession. restrictions may also need to be applied upon accession on the use of certain animal by-products. non-compliant food establishments in the milk, meat and fish sectors will be denied access to the internal market, but will be allowed to produce for the national market bearing a specific label. after three years, they will have to comply with eu rules or close down. i have outlined the sufficient guarantees offered by the acquis and the accession treaty. i am therefore confident that bulgaria and romania will enrich the union without compromising the proper functioning of eu policies and institutions. the interests of the eu and our citizens can be assured and eu taxpayers’ money protected. overall, bulgaria and romania should be commended for their far-reaching efforts and achievements to adapt their legislation and administration to the laws and rules of the european union. on the basis of the progress made, our report shows that both countries will be ready to join the union in 2007. the suggested accompanying measures will ensure the continuity and irreversibility of the reforms in the two countries. i trust that we can count on your support for facilitating a swift and successful ratification of the accession treaty in the remaining member states. bulgaria and romania have undertaken remarkable efforts to join us in the european union and they deserve our congratulations and a very warm welcome. (applause)
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, bulgaria and romania are an essential part of the fifth enlargement of the european union. it is known that our aim has been to welcome both countries as member states on 1 january 2007. in this respect, the commission's communication can be welcomed. the european parliament's views on the accession readiness of bulgaria and romania have been taken into account throughout the enlargement process. as the representative of the presidency, i would like to thank the european parliament for the important contribution it has made to the accession of both countries to the union. the european union has closely monitored the progress made by both countries in completing the necessary reforms and in fulfilling the obligations of membership under the accession treaty. the june european council, while commending bulgaria and romania for the recent reform measures taken, called on both countries to make greater efforts to resolve decisively and without delay the remaining problems identified in the commission's progress report of last may. the presidency has encouraged both countries to address outstanding issues. these issues include, in particular, judicial reform, organised crime, corruption and administrative capacity in a number of key areas. the association council meetings have provided an opportunity to assess progress on the eu acquis and have made clear the need to complete and implement the necessary reforms without delay. the meetings of the joint parliamentary committees have also played a key role in this work. the presidency takes note of the recommendations contained in the commission's reports. we would like to thank both bulgaria and romania for their efforts to meet the accession criteria. bulgaria and romania must now address all remaining problems without delay. i know that countries are already working to solve these problems. the council notes the commission's plans for possible safeguard measures to be taken on the basis of articles 37 and 38 of the treaty of accession and for reinforced monitoring if progress is insufficient in these areas. the council will now examine the commission's communication and recommendations in depth and assess the main issues in their entirety. in this work the council will of course also take account of the views expressed by the european parliament. the ratification process of the accession treaty itself is already well under way and we are confident that it will be completed in time. mr president, although the further enlargement of the union is more closely linked to the next item, i would like to point out that the european council last confirmed in june 2006 that it would respect existing commitments. the finnish presidency will act on the basis of these decisions. (applause) i would like to thank the
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the epp-ed group welcomes the commission's proposal that bulgaria and romania join the european union on 1 january 2007. bulgaria and romania are two great european cultural nations and they will become members of our european family with accession. we already have national members from bulgaria and romania in our group, as in the other groups. the bulgarians are represented by maria cappone, the romanians by marian-jean marinescu, and we have developed a good working relationship in the last few months. i would like to express my appreciation to the epp-ed group, both bulgaria and romania, to the governments and especially to the people of both countries for the great effort they have made in the years since the fall of communism. for if a country has been ruled by communism for forty or fifty years, if there has been no rule of law, no rule of law-oriented administration and no independent judiciary - if you take all this into account, then you know what a tremendous achievement these two peoples - like the other former communist countries - had to undertake. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its work on the question of the future of the european union, and that it is not only the european union that is responsible for this, but also the european parliament. (applause from the centre) in the light of the above, we consider that the proposal you have put forward, mr president of the commission and mr commissioner rehn, is a balanced proposal. on the one hand, membership is scheduled for 1 january 2007, but on the other hand we cannot ignore the fact that there is still a lot of work to be done. it would be irresponsible to conceal from the people of the european union, and also from bulgaria and romania, all the work that still needs to be done there. both the president of the commission and commissioner rehn said that there are still large deficits in the use of european funds, that there is a risk of corruption, that we still have large deficits in the fight against organised crime, in internal security. the commissioner has already pointed out that the implementation of the law is still very weak. that is, the laws are there, but they must also be applied. also, if there are serious violations of the law, there must be judicial punishment and those responsible must be held accountable. this will be reflected, among other things, in the fact that both countries will be required to report on progress every six months. i think that commissioner rehn has made a very good point about the need to avoid the application of the so-called safeguard clauses - one could even say transitional provisions. the way in which they are applied depends on the way in which the reforms are implemented. if the reforms, which must be pursued vigorously after 1 january 2007, are not implemented, these safeguard clauses would enter into force. we must always bear this in mind. i would like to say to the people of bulgaria and romania: for all the joy of accession, you will not join the european union on 1 january 2007, which is a paradise on earth! we have seen in other countries that once they have joined the european union, the enthusiasm has clearly waned. now, there is no need to be enthusiastic about europe. but we must always be committed to this europe, and we must have a common awareness that we as the european union can only have a common future in the 21st century in a european union which is capable of action and based on common values. i hope that in these two countries which are now joining, in bulgaria and romania, but also in the other countries of the european union, this awareness will never be lost. the president of the commission has rightly spoken of the institutional strengthening of the european union which must precede any enlargement. i say on behalf of the epp group: institutional consolidation: yes! but we're ambitious about it. we want the principles and substance of the constitutional treaty, including its values, to become a legal and therefore political reality. that is the big agenda for the months and years ahead. let's work together to achieve this. in this sense we warmly welcome bulgaria and romania! (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. when people in my constituency ask me why i support the accession of bulgaria and romania, when there are so many problems, when the last enlargement has not yet been passed, when we do not have a constitution, when there are so many problems in the countries themselves that have not been solved, i do not try to give an answer by pointing out one or the other. that is the task of commissioner rehn, and he has done it today. there are still a few things to be clarified in bulgaria and romania. there are some problems that need to be described, where governments need to try to solve them and convince people that reforms are needed. all this is done and all that is necessary. the deficits must be corrected. but today is not the time to discuss this or that problem in this house. when bulgaria and romania join the european union on 1 january 2007, europe will continue to build on a unification process that is unlike any other in the world. our grandfathers and grandmothers were proud of the unification of western europe. why are we not proud of the work of european unification which we are continuing today with this debate? bulgaria and romania are part of europe, and i think it is right that mr poettering said that we should welcome them. i would like to say on behalf of my group that they are welcome. (applause from the centre) it is not a question of a single country, but of a single continent, and it is not a question of a single country, but of a single continent. i was born in western europe. i was born in a country that was divided and that was in a whirlwind of joy when it was able to restore its unity. right, the germans deserved it. but what the germans had earned, the whole continent had earned. the men and women who fought against the communist dictatorship in bulgaria and romania, the people who have been through a process of transformation in bulgaria and romania over the last 16 years that has been more severe than the burdens faced by the people of western europe in recent years. all this deserves to be rewarded by the european union's acceptance of these two countries. what problem would be easier if they stayed outside? what concern would be more easily resolved if they were not included? nothing would be better if we left them outside! on the contrary, if we do not respond to them, the uncertainty in the countries and in the whole black sea region will increase. that's why it's an act of reason to take them in. everything that has been achieved in european history, everything that had to be done, has been done against scepticism. i 'm pretty sure . when in 1950/51/52 the heads of state and government in belgium, luxembourg, the netherlands and france told their peoples that they had to accept the germans into what was then the european community, the montanunion, they did not receive a standing ovation either. there were a lot of people saying, "the germans have just destroyed our country twice, and now we're supposed to take them in?" now they're gonna get money from us? but the heads of state or government were firmly convinced that german integration into the european community would bring peace and economic growth and that integration would help to overcome hatred and hostility. it worked! that's all we're doing now. we are faced in every country with a population that asks: "are you not taking charge? don't you spend too much money there? isn't that too much? isn't this all too uncertain? the only answer we can give is that our aim is to increase economic power and social cohesion, to export the integration of cultures and peoples as a peace-building project. what was achieved in the old europe, now extended to the countries which could not benefit from it until now. all this is not achieved by signing the contract, but must be fought for and worked at. but you have to start with that. this means having the courage to say, against much scepticism and resistance, that european unification was the right step in the west as well as in the east, because this unification creates peace, economic growth and also in the internal market more room for economic development. every country we take in is an enrichment for the european single market. it creates social cohesion and it creates the size that europe needs as an economic area to be able to survive in the long term in intercontinental competition. in sum, there are many little things to complain about: this is not happening right yet, there is still a need for reform, here the administration needs to be reformed, as the judiciary, the police, agriculture. it's all right, and it's all got to be done. but it does not change the fact that we should include romania and bulgaria because we need them. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, madam president of the council! the committee on foreign affairs is coming to the end of a long period of discussion on these two countries, which we have wanted to welcome as members of the european union from the beginning. we should remember that we had concerns about many accessions and that all these accessions have subsequently proved to be political and economic successes. they've become a win-win situation. there are also a number of transitional rules in favour of both sides, so that membership is not subject to any major controversy from the european union's point of view, for example that border controls on persons are not yet being abolished because these countries are not yet schengen countries, or as regards the free movement of workers. but in all this welcoming, we must make it clear that any extension will only work if the rules are followed. it is very significant that the commission today says that it has a benchmarking and monitoring process which could solve the problems of the legal system, corruption, money laundering and organised crime. then we'll have to wait and see if they're actually used in an emergency. the same applies to the legal conditions and controls for the structural and agricultural funds and to the opening of the food markets. the commission now has a great deal of responsibility. the european union's future will be secure only if it works and if it uses its mechanisms in a credible way, and only then can we continue to think about enlargement in the future. it is extremely important that we welcome the countries, but also that both sides abide by the rules, so that we do not have big problems at the end of the day because of non-compliance with the rules. i shall therefore be watching very closely how the commission will use the possibilities it has mentioned today in practice. a final remark: the constitutional treaty was drawn up for the union of 25 and 27 at the end of this enlargement with the countries that had suffered so much under communism. but the european union will not play a role in this world by its size, but only by its inner strength. size is not a sign of strength. that is why it is important to remember that we as the european union have not done our homework.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the presidency of the council, i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular mr camiel eurlings, for the report on turkey's progress in the accession process. each debate provides a good opportunity to raise awareness of the turkish accession process, to encourage both eu and turkish citizens to actively participate in this process and to support the turkish government in its accession objectives. as the president of the council, finland will of course take account of the views of the european parliament. the commission will publish an annual report on the progress of the accession negotiations with turkey in early november. the european council will examine this report with particular care. in this debate today i would like to draw attention to a few points in the accession negotiations with turkey. the presidency shares the european parliament's concern about the reform process in turkey. turkey must speed up the implementation of political reforms and the whole reform process. the full and effective implementation of reforms is essential to ensure their sustainability and continuity. we need concrete results. we share parliament's concern about turkey's slow progress in the key areas of fundamental freedoms and human rights. although conditions in turkey have improved compared to five years ago, concrete reforms must continue, particularly in the areas of freedom of expression, freedom of religion, cultural rights, women's rights and measures against torture and ill-treatment. most of these issues have been identified in the revised accession partnership as priorities to be met by turkey without delay. the president is currently awaiting the adoption of the ninth law reform package, which is intended to address some of the shortcomings mentioned above. the new laws must be fully compatible with eu standards. in particular, as regards freedom of expression, the council expects turkey to take immediate action to avoid the legal action taken against some of those who expressed non-violent opinions in the future. as regards religious freedom, we expect full and immediate implementation of legislation on the rights of non-muslim minorities in line with european standards. like parliament, we are concerned about the situation in south-eastern turkey. the presidency has condemned the recent bombings at various locations in turkey as senseless acts of terrorism. terrorism can never be justified. this is a complex issue that we are monitoring closely as part of the reform process. turkey must develop rapidly a comprehensive approach to reducing regional disparities. the aim should be to strengthen the economic, social and cultural opportunities of all turkish citizens, including the kurds. in addition to the copenhagen political criteria, turkey's progress in the accession process will be assessed in the light of the requirements of the negotiating framework, which includes the implementation of the additional protocol to the ankara agreement. progress on this issue is essential for the continuation of negotiations. turkey shall apply the protocol in full to all member states of the european union and remove obstacles to the free movement of goods, including transport restrictions. the opening of the negotiating chapters which are essential to this depends on turkey's compliance with its obligations under the treaty towards the member states. failure to meet these obligations will have an overall impact on the progress of the negotiations. progress will be monitored on all the key issues identified in the declaration of the european community and the member states of 21 september 2005. meeting the standards and requirements of european union membership requires continuous enterprise and determination. this determination is required not only from the applicant country but also from the union itself. i would therefore like to make it very clear that the accession process of turkey is very important to us and that finland, as the presidency, will do everything possible to make progress in the accession negotiations. the union supports turkey in its efforts to join, but progress in the accession negotiations will of course depend to a large extent on turkey's own actions. the accession process will continue as turkey continues the reform process and meets its obligations.
member of the commission. i would like to begin by apologizing for having to leave this sitting in the middle of the debate, contrary to my custom, because at 4.30 p.m., that is, in ten minutes, i will be holding a press conference with president barroso, in which i will have to take part. immediately afterwards, we will be travelling with him to sofia, bulgaria, and bucharest, romania, to convey today's commission decision and parliament's debate to these two future eu member states. i am sorry to have to serve two gentlemen, but the timetable for this sitting was slightly extended in the previous debate and unfortunately there is no other alternative. mr president, in the previous debate mrs lehtomäki made a statement on behalf of the council on the future of enlargement. like president barroso, i welcome the statement and reiterate the commission's commitment and our policy of a consolidated enlargement agenda, which covers south-eastern europe apart from bulgaria and romania. it covers turkey and croatia and the other countries of the western balkans. we are cautious about any new commitments, but we stick to our existing commitments to the countries of south-eastern europe pacta sunt servanda. they have the prospect of joining the european union once they meet the conditions, as promised for the countries of the western balkans at the thessaloniki summit in 2003. while we prepare internally for a new institutional settlement, the gradual and carefully-managed accession process continues with these countries of south-eastern europe. we cannot take a sabbatical from our responsibilities for peace, stability, liberty and democracy. we expect the eu member states to be able to agree on a new institutional settlement in 2008; hence the new institutional settlement should have been born by the time the next member is likely to join. if croatia, which is likely to be the next new member, pursues reforms with rigour and results, it should be ready to join the union around the end of this decade. let us thank mr eurlings for his report, which includes useful elements for the assessment of turkey's progress towards accession. i also thank the members of the foreign affairs committee for their contributions. turkey's accession is a matter of constant debate. it is true that the momentum for reform has slowed down in turkey in the past year. however, we should not lose sight of the progress accomplished in the last decade, nor of our commitments towards turkey. the goal of the negotiations started on 3 october 2005 is full eu membership of turkey, and by its very nature it is an open-ended process with no automatism. this commitment stems from a solid understanding that integrating turkey into the eu is of mutual benefit. in its own interest, the european union needs a democratic, stable and increasingly prosperous turkey. turkey's strategic significance was once again illustrated by its decision to take part in the unifil mission in lebanon. in the past twelve months, there has been a lack of progress in the reforms. it is important that new initiatives are taken and that tangible progress is still achieved before the commission presents its report on 8 november. first, freedom of expression is the cornerstone of the reforms. journalists, authors, publishers and human rights activists still face judicial proceedings for violations of the notorious article 301 of the penal code on the vague grounds of insulting turkishness. in july, the final ruling of the court of cassation in the case of hrant dink established jurisprudence on that notorious article 301, which violates european standards. thus, despite the acquittal of novelist elif shafak last week, freedom of expression remains under threat in turkey. the judicial proceedings have a chilling effect and damage the important work carried out by journalists, intellectuals and activists. i have repeatedly expressed my concerns about this, most recently last week to foreign minister gül. frankly, i am rather tired of repeating myself endlessly, but i shall continue to do so until the end of my term, unless this shortcoming is corrected. i cannot even imagine a member state in the european union which does not respect such a fundamental principle as freedom of expression. it is now high time for turkey to amend the restrictive articles in the penal code and bring them truly into line with the european convention on human rights. this matters also as regards the internal debate on turkey to which the rapporteur, mr eurlings, referred. an open and constructive exchange of views is needed in turkey, including the most sensitive issues. that is necessary both for the democratic process in turkey and for facing tomorrow's challenges, as well as for turkey's reconciliation with its neighbours, including armenia. reconciliation is a principle that is both the origin and the outcome of the european integration process. i therefore urge turkey to continue to take concrete steps in that direction. secondly, with regard to freedom of religion, i fully agree with the rapporteur and the council on this important matter. the law on foundations currently debated in the turkish grand national assembly should address the shortcomings. restrictions applied to property rights, management of foundations and training of the clergy must be lifted. there are also muslim minorities that face discrimination. the alevi, a community of 15 to 20 million people, face legal restrictions on establishing places of worship and receive no financial support from the state religious authority. in the southeast, the spiral of violence undermines positive developments witnessed since emergency rule was lifted some years ago. terrorism is our common enemy. turkey and the eu unequivocally condemn the pkk, and i deeply deplore the loss of innocent lives in the attacks that have taken place throughout the year in turkey. however, a policy based merely on security considerations is not sufficient to address the problems of the region. the south-east faces an aggravated socio-economic situation, due not only to security threats but also to high unemployment and poverty. we expect turkey soon to adopt a comprehensive strategy targeting all the needs of this region: economic, social and cultural. let us turn to the obligations which turkey needs to respect. we expect turkey to fully implement the additional protocol of the ankara agreement. that means that turkey should remove obstacles to the free movement of goods, including those on means of transport, which are in breach of the association agreement. hence turkey should open its ports to vessels under flags of all member states, including the republic of cyprus. as set out in the negotiating framework, progress in the negotiations also depends on turkey meeting its obligations. let us reiterate that turkey's obligations under the ankara protocol are not linked to the ending of economic isolation of the turkish-cypriot community. the draft report rightly calls on the council to make renewed efforts to reach an agreement on the trade facilitation regulation concerning the northern part of cyprus. the commission fully supports the serious efforts of the finnish presidency to overcome the stalemate on the trade regulation, thus helping the council and the eu member states to live up to their commitments. it is also appropriate to underline the continuation of the constructive commitment by turkey in finding a comprehensive settlement on the cyprus question, acceptable to both greek cypriots and turkish cypriots, based upon the principles on which the eu was founded. to conclude, it is in our mutual interest for turkey to pursue its democratic, societal and economic transformation with the goal of joining the eu. if turkey succeeds, with our consistent support, it can become an ever-sturdier bridge between civilisations, at a moment when the relationship between europe and islam is the greatest challenge of our time. turkey is an important benchmark in this regard and it matters for our own future and for the future of our children and grandchildren. while the commission is prepared to support turkey through the process, it is ultimately up to turkey to carry it forward. the extraordinary parliamentary session convened last week to accelerate the adoption of the ninth reform package is a welcome step in the right direction. yet a more resolute reform process is needed for turkey to progress on the path to eu accession. in this process, we should remember that as prime minister erdogan suggested the copenhagen criteria should be called the ankara criteria, since they are there, in the first place, for the sake of turkish citizens and their rights, not merely to please the eu. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i do not know whether the last contribution was a personal opinion or the opinion of the committee responsible. i would like to thank mr eurlings very much for the very balanced report he has presented. some of the things that have been criticised today by one or another group have been brought into the report by members of that group in the first place. we must not forget this too, for example in connection with the media. it is important to note that negotiations are ongoing and that they must be conducted in a constructive manner by both sides. we agree that turkey should have a european perspective. but we must make it clear - and the commissioner has also said this - that the reform process has slowed down since 3 october. it is right and necessary to point this out, and to do so in the light of a number of specific issues relating to human rights, minority rights, freedom of expression and religion. it is also important to make clear that these are the conditions for things to proceed. the european parliament has said in a decision to open negotiations that the political criteria should be met at the beginning of the negotiations and not at the end. some things about the debate bother me now - it's almost a mentality problem - such as that it should not be allowed to speak facts because it could be interpreted critically or wrongly in turkey. we can only negotiate this way if we really state the facts. only then can things really move forward. we are also here to take our citizens along this path. if the conditions are not met and the facts are not stated clearly and clearly, then we have a problem. the european union can only admit people who meet all the criteria, including the political criteria and the conditions for negotiation: this means that the ankara protocol must finally be put into effect, which has not yet been done. the cyprus problem must be resolved this year as planned and cannot be postponed any further because otherwise no one will take us seriously. it is also important to stress that the european union's ability to enlarge is of crucial importance. this also means that the financial perspective after the negotiating mandate will only allow negotiations on the financial chapter to take place from 2013 onwards. that should be shown, too. the fact that this arrangement is included in the negotiating mandate shows that, from today's point of view, the european union's ability to enlarge is not possible in view of the financial capacity of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his efforts to take up the mood here in parliament and to make it a majority. i do believe, however, that the foreign affairs committee's decision is that too much is the enemy of the good. i would like to make two points. firstly, on the point which my colleague has just raised at the end of his speech, the armenian question. i was a participant and speaker at the conference on the armenian question in istanbul, which many have now described as historic. it was the first conference of its kind where all the issues in this context were discussed, including those of the most vocal critics in istanbul. the participants in this conference, from taner akçam to halil berktay to hrant dink who is currently dealing with paragraph 301 have all asked me to make it clear that anyone who wants to help the debate in turkey cannot make the recognition of the genocide a precondition for membership of the european union. so my request to the colleagues: whoever wants to help the debate continue, whoever wants to contribute something to change in turkey, should listen to the opposition voices in turkey. i hope that the border between turkey and armenia will one day be like the border between germany and france. but we must also help to make this happen. the second point is that we are all agreed that turkey must fulfil its part of the obligations and implement the ankara protocol on cyprus. but there is also a political part of the commitments, and it is that the people of northern cyprus, the turkish cypriots, are waiting for us to fulfil our part of the promise made, and that is to end the economic and educational isolation of the people of northern cyprus. turkey must implement the ankara protocol, but we must also help to end the isolation of the turkish cypriot population in the north of the island.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. turkey is not a european country. their accession would stretch the eu too far, overstretch it, weaken it, perhaps even endanger it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but even for a privileged partnership, the copenhagen criteria must be respected and reforms must be pursued, not least in the interests of the turkish people themselves. we need to ask ourselves critical questions. if you want turkey to become a full member, you may want a different turkey, but you will only get a different european union, a free trade area with political elements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. is secularism really compatible with democracy if it is only a minority and elite project? is religious freedom really compatible with a state islam disguised as secularism? are minority rights really compatible with kemalism, which is a kind of jacobinism in turkey? these are serious, solid questions we need to ask ourselves. we must not continue to run into a dead end, which may end in the rejection of turkey's accession by the european states and peoples, with terrible consequences for turkey's internal stability. we owe it to turkey - precisely because it is an important partner - to be honest, to draw up clear criteria for a reasonable, tailor-made partnership which meets both turkey's interests and those of the european union, rather than continually painting for ourselves some image of turkey which has nothing to do with reality. we must therefore be careful not to fall back on the line of the eurling report, which i rejected in committee because i did not think it went far enough. but this line should be our consensus, otherwise the signal to turkey would be devastating.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in december 2004, we voted in this parliament with 402 votes in favour of opening accession negotiations with turkey. this was a clear signal. today we are debating the report 'turkey's progress towards accession', a report which should actually be aimed at providing constructive support for the negotiations and the accession process of turkey. however, it seems to me that our objective - turkey's eu membership - is too much overlooked in the current eurlings report. so i ask myself: what is our goal? turkey should stick to its reform course and then we will treat them fairly? or we could say: whatever you do, you will never become a member of the eu! our turkish partners are faced with a mass of negative examples. the progress made and the positive examples are almost entirely ignored. it's not fair. it is true that turkey needs to continue to work on its reform process. it is also right that it must fulfil its obligations under the ankara protocol: human rights, democracy, protection of minorities are prerequisites for eu accession. if turkey meets the criteria already set and continues to push forward its reform process, we will also stick to the goal of eu membership. this should be defended in our report. that would be a very clear signal to me. if the rapporteur or parliament disagrees, a report on turkey must say so. otherwise we lose credibility in the european parliament with such half-truths. we have to stick to the decision we made in strasbourg in october 2005 to open accession negotiations with turkey. i have always said that turkey is not yet ready to receive us, but it is ready to negotiate. europe should understand this and support it in a spirit of understanding and solidarity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm really surprised by this discussion. it would seem that camiel eurlings would have obtained a very narrow majority for his report in the committee. the social democrats have, however, voted in favour of the report. it passed the committee with 54 votes. the same socialist group - mrs de keyser, mr wiersma, and other distinguished colleagues - is now going against everything it has advocated in the committee. i'm really surprised by this. clearness, dear mrs de keyser, is something else! we need to ask ourselves some critical questions. the most important question is: have we taken the people on this enlargement tour, on this negotiation tour towards turkey? the answer is clearly no. people are very critical of that. i say this explicitly to the commission and the council. where does this discussion about the capacity to absorb come from? why this change of mood in parliament? we all have a fairly frequent dialogue with the citizens and we can feel the scepticism, the reluctance and sometimes the massive rejection when it comes to the question of turkey's accession. that is why i am warning the council and the commission: no new commitments, no new prospects, first reform the eu. we all agree that we must make institutional progress. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you don't address problems, you can't solve them. i'm not gonna let you talk me into anything. you, dear camiel eurlings, describe very precisely what is not in the european sense in turkey. i want to thank you for your report. in fact, there is hardly any progress, and in some cases even regression, in almost all the policy areas of relevance. the commission has not yet taken any action to combat the problem. nevertheless, negotiations were started against all the rules. our fears of last year have been confirmed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the reform process has fallen asleep. reforms already decided on are not or only poorly implemented by the state bodies or, as recently happened, are re-imposed by parliamentary decisions. for example, the turkish parliament has passed the new anti-terrorism law against the vehement protest of the european commission. the result: the freedom of expression and the press, which is still restricted, will be further curtailed. the turkish prime minister is trying to islamise the country by using the eu process for his own purposes. in this way he is playing into the hands of the nationalists who are vehemently opposed to europeanisation. does erdoğan even want to join the eu? his refusal to accept cyprus at least underlines his rejection of the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals. cyprus is a litmus test. if turkish policy does not take action, the negotiations must be suspended. turkey is now obliged to do so without any ifs and buts and without any new conditions or demands. the commission must accept this and the council of ministers must finally demand and enforce it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it's only our pressure that makes change. if the europeans fall again, we will finally be a laughingstock that no one can take seriously. nothing would move in this country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that the outcome of the negotiations is open and that alternatives to full membership could have resulted - and should have resulted in my view - is not new but is the subject of discussions in the council and parliament. i would like to expressly disagree with commissioner rehn, who said in his opening speech here that he expected the negotiations to be concluded and accession to take place by the end of the decade. it's not four years! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. she needs to change her ways. turkey must recognise and respect human rights, religious freedom and minority rights. it must clarify the armenian question and actively promote the recognition of cyprus. or does anyone in turkey believe that turkey could become a member if, on the other hand, a full member of the eu is not recognized? a recent insider claimed that cyprus would not be recognised until turkey became a full member or dropped out of the negotiations. if the eu, including the commission, is satisfied with this, then we will do all we can to keep europe together. when i think of religious freedom, it is a remarkable fact how the turkish authorities, the deputy party chairman, the supreme head of the religious authority - a state official - evaluated the pope's speech before he had even read it. pope benedict has been compared to hitler and mussolini - a monumental event that shows and documents the intolerance and islamism in the minds of the people who enter into negotiations with us. given the burgeoning nationalism and the rigid stance of the erdoğan government, i seriously doubt the political will to actually surrender sovereignty to the eu. that is why the eurling report is necessary and correct. turkey should see the indications and demands as an opportunity and not as a threat.
member of the commission. it mainly concerns the financial regulation and the financial implementing rules. the commission has prepared the simplification procedures and they were approved in may. this package of new legislation is on the council’s table and on the committee on budgets’ table with mrs grässle, who is the rapporteur on this question. she can confirm that we took on about 80% of parliament’s proposals. the package is very good, but now much will depend on whether the finnish presidency will approve it and on the negotiations between the council and parliament, while it remains a council decision. so i very much hope that a lot more simplification will take place from 2007, especially regarding the procedures for paying for these kinds of projects. but that is another matter.
member of the commission. within this question there are seven sub-questions, and i would like to be as precise and technical as possible because the questions were very specific and precise from an accounting point of view. your question mainly relates to our manning budget, where we are asking to create a budgetary line which would enable the commission, where duly justified, to write off items in suspense accounts, and to write off losses which inevitably accrue in an administration manager’s funds in accounts throughout 145 countries, sometimes with a weak banking sector and other political disturbances. the creation of this budget line reflects the commission’s policy of administrative rigour and transparency, to clear up all old files, mostly relating to the years before 2000. that is mainly because we are now introducing a new accrual-based accounting system which allows us, and compels us, to be more transparent and more rigorous with our accounting system. this proposal for a new budgetary line was presented in the amended budget 5, to the budget line 40, and lists the following five types of operations which we will be looking into. the first is adjustments to cover amounts deposited in accounts in banks outside the european union which have gone bankrupt during the previous year. the second is cash differences in imprest accounts. the third is settlement on some long-standing operations carried out mainly by delegations and representations under the imprest arrangements abroad. the fourth is repayments of principal and/or late payment interest and whether they were set off, and clearance of non-recoverable amounts of vat. each year, the commission will include this budgetary line in its pdb proposal, as it is now common practice to write off non-recoverable expenditure and not leave it in suspense accounts indefinitely, which was the practice in the past. the definition of a suspense account is that it is not just a bank account, but accounting records, in which the commission’s annual financial statements are listed outside the eu budget accounts because they correspond to operations which are waiting to be regularised from an accounting point of view, but cannot be attributed by any specific eu budget line for various reasons explained above. there is therefore no link with the bank accounts mentioned in my answer of 2 july this year, where the accounts were opened or managed by staff other than the accounting officer, both inside and outside the territory of the european union. as regards the court of auditors’ 2005 annual report, this proposal also has no link whatever with that publication, other than the fact that the court constantly presses the commission to clear up these suspense accounts. it was presented in good time for the suspense account to be cleared up before the end of the present financial year. we did this with the amended budget. as regards the main types of operation in a number of accounts which you ask about in your question and the amounts of money involved, i can provide some examples today. for example, funds lost following bankruptcies amount to about eur 1.3 million, concerning mainly eur 1 million in kazakhstan in 1996. funds lost from burdens of the past, for example, amount presently to eur 3.5 million from imprest accounts held outside the european union and only eur 100 000 from imprest accounts held by representations. this is due to many different circumstances where the supporting documents that are needed to justify otherwise regular expenditure cannot be traced, despite long searches. all these amounts relate to years before 2000. finally, i just want to say that the creation of this budget line is not only part of the current process to modernise the commission’s accounting system; it also reflects the commission policy of administrative rigour and transparency to clear up all old files, which will become common practice from 2006, and we will do it every year. despite the thorough inventory, i want to confirm that no bank accounts were found that have been unknown to the commission at this stage.
thank you for your answer, commissioner. the translation has been going off the rails for some time because it couldn't follow you. i have tried to follow you and i have noticed that you have not answered a question, namely the 377 accounts outside the budget which i raised in my question of 2 july. it is the second time that the question of the total amount has not been answered. i would add that there is an account of the economat supermarket over 7 million euros. i ask you to tell us what these 7 million euros were spent on.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we too welcome this report by mr progress. we hope that it will be the much-needed impetus for eu gender equality policy. after the disappointing gender road map of the eu commission, it is all the more important that as much money as possible is available to carry out analyses and publicity work on eu gender equality policy in the eu member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it is the persistence of parliament that has led to the increase in the appropriations for employment and social solidarity. we all know politicians without money are just poets. the aim of equality policy must therefore be to provide the necessary funds, because without money it is not possible to continue this policy. the european parliament has successfully implemented the gender mainstreaming commitment in all areas of the programme. we have not succeeded in establishing an independent action programme, but we have had to tackle a cross-cutting problem.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament, with today's debate and tomorrow's vote, is bringing to a close the two and a half years of work on the preparation of the legislative package on cohesion policy for 2007-13. a cohesion policy that is to work for the first time with 25 and 27 member states respectively, with the new member states all being cohesion countries and benefiting very much from the future cohesion and structural policies. we want to make sure that the vote tomorrow clears the way for the operational programmes in the regions to be finalised, submitted and approved by the commission, thus ensuring an early start of projects in the less favoured regions of the european union next year. i would like to thank you very much for the cooperation that has been given in the report on the strategic guidelines. the commission has put forward a good proposal; we have worked together on it, with the commission and the council, and - i should like to mention this specifically here - we have had a lot of direct contact with the regions. the visits i was able to make as rapporteur to lisbon, madrid, bratislava, prague, stockholm and helsinki contributed significantly to the quality of the report which we then adopted together in committee and in plenary. i am very pleased that the main points which the european parliament wanted to add to the guidelines are also essentially reflected in the document adopted by the council in august. the most important point is probably the clear statement that we want a sustainable development of the european union, that we are not only looking at short-term economic objectives, but are striving for a sustainable improvement, a sustainable improvement in working and living conditions, especially in the less-favoured and underdeveloped regions of the european union. it was therefore very important to us that access to cohesion policy funds be free of discrimination. the document, now finally available, once again explicitly states that access for disabled people, for the elderly, for people with a migrant background is just as possible as for all other people. this is an important signal to the citizens of the regions. we have stressed that we are not looking to create any jobs in the european union, but to create jobs of better quality and sustainable for the future. this is closely linked to improved training, improved opportunities for setting up research institutes and the possibility of making small and medium-sized enterprises more closely and more rapidly aware of the results of these very research institutes. we have reinforced all this in the strategic guidelines. the area of urban development and the development of urban areas is of particular importance to us, following a long and detailed debate. 80% of the population of the european union lives there. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have emphasized one point in particular, namely territorial cooperation, which is more important than ever in an enlarged european union, to learn from each other and to design projects together. i was able to see, during a working party visit to hungary just last week, that there are also some strategically sound ideas and concepts being developed in the new member states. perhaps one or another region, which has been receiving cohesion funds from the european union for years, can take a lesson from the new member states. but for that we must continue to promote territorial cooperation. another point - and i am speaking here in particular as coordinator of the socialist group - is the promotion of equal opportunities in the european union, especially for women and young people. the successes we have achieved in the community with equal will be used further, the networks will be maintained, also in the new funding period. this has also been incorporated in the guidelines. on the whole, we as a parliament can regard the results of the negotiations as a great success not only for parliament but also for the citizens. no success and no compromise can live without a but. but there is also a problem with the guidelines. the european parliament has attached great importance to strengthening partnership cooperation with the social partners and civil society. the commission has also taken account of this in the guidelines, in the report which the council finally adopted, but unfortunately in a much weaker form. we will ensure that parliament will speak again at the mid-term of the structural assistance period and that we will work together to revise these guidelines. this will affect cooperation, just as we will examine very closely whether earmarking was really a useful invention of the council or whether it only brings more bureaucracy to those involved. if the latter is the case, we will certainly be advocating its abolition, because as the european parliament we have a responsibility and a duty to the citizens. and we will do our duty.
the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs krehl on this important building block in the cohesion policy for the next few years. the strategic guidelines are intended to complement the structural funds regulation and to assist national and regional authorities in their programming. it thus sets out the political priorities for the investments to be made. the new strategic guidelines rightly focus more on growth and jobs than before, with emphasis on the knowledge and information society, entrepreneurship and employment. in other words, the focus is on the lisbon strategy, but - and i would like to stress this - never as an end in itself, but always in the context of cohesion policy, in the context of achieving the objective of greater economic cohesion and pan-european competitiveness. the promotion of individual investment by means of grants specifically for smes must also be taken into account in these guidelines. however, there is still concern about the high administrative burden in the field of european structural policy, which unfortunately is not significantly reduced by the requirements of these guidelines. i would also like to stress that the limited resources at our disposal must not only be used intelligently, efficiently and in a concentrated way, but that private co-financing at the project level must also be given great importance. unfortunately, public-private partnerships are still far too rarely used in the context of the structural funds, not least because of many unresolved legal issues. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the member states are able to submit their operational programmes in good time and, in particular, to ensure a smooth transition to the new funding period.
member of the commission. mr president, while i believe that the guidelines now take on board parliament’s main concerns, as you know we were not in a position to accommodate all of them fully. i am thinking in particular of certain provisions that are now enshrined in the regulations and which cannot, by definition, be contradicted in the guidelines. certainly earmarking is perhaps the principal example of such a provision which parliament has tended to oppose, but let me emphasise very strongly that earmarking is not anti-cohesion. it is a recognition that the world has changed and that we need to redirect efforts towards new priorities in order to achieve sustainable cohesion. at the same time, compared to the commission’s initial proposal, the final list of earmark categories has been enlarged during the negotiations to include other expenditures, especially in the convergence regions, but not only those regions. in addition, the regulations now provide for the possibility, during the programme negotiations, for the national authorities and the commission to agree to earmark other expenditure categories that do not appear on the final list, where these are held to be of national or regional importance. we are now on the home strait with regard to the implementation of the eu cohesion policy. we have the regulations in place and by the beginning of october, assuming parliament’s assent tomorrow, the guidelines will be adopted as a first phase in the programming exercise. while it is the home strait, we should not underestimate the challenges that lie ahead in reaching the finishing line, but i can assure you that i will spare no efforts in persuading our partners in the member states and regions to put in place ambitious and innovative programmes.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the evaluation of the gallileo programme by etelka barsi-pataky, paul rübig on behalf of the ppe-de group, norbert glante on behalf of the pse group, fiona hall on behalf of the alde group and umberto pirilli on behalf of the uen group (o-0094/2006 b6-0430/2006).
the commission's vice-president mr president, you know, i would be happy to continue this dialogue, even overnight, because galileo is an exciting project. i would like to reassure our friends in parliament. the first of the two experimental satellites was launched from baikonur on 28 december 2005; it has successfully transmitted all the signals necessary to ensure the use of the frequency bands allocated to the european satellite navigation system. the second satellite, giove-b, will be launched in 2007. it will carry other advanced technology equipment such as the hydrogen-based passive maser-based atomic clock, which will be the most accurate atomic clock ever launched into space. at the same time, industrial activities of the in-orbit validation phase started in december 2004. i have already said, and i repeat, that the entire contract for the validation phase was signed on 19 january 2006, for an amount of eur 1 038 million. we are now entering a new phase, which will be to look for all possible applications of galileo. i explained to you that we had launched a kind of call to all the companies, small and medium-sized, and to all the engineers who could innovate in this field. the green paper will be aimed precisely at asking the right questions, which should enable us to know better all the possible applications. then, when we have a global view of the applications, we can better deal with the public/private partnership and consider the distribution of effort. the industrial sector must also cooperate, since it can benefit from these applications. then we can finally get this concession contract on a reasonable financial footing. there is no indication at present that we will find ourselves in a situation so difficult that it would jeopardize the balance of the project. that being said, i have made a real commitment to keep parliament informed - mrs barsi-pataky knows this well, as rapporteur, and i thank her again. i have really committed myself to coming to parliament as often as necessary to explain to you where things stand and how they are developing. you have suggested an observer post; we have already explained this to the relevant committees. it is difficult for parliament to want to be an observer and at the same time to exercise all its control functions. but in any case, mr president, i confirm tonight the commitment i have made: i will keep parliament fully informed of everything that is happening, both of the implementation of the concession contract and of the public/private partnership, but also of how we are going to manage the contribution of third countries and their participation in galileo.
i thank you very much, mr barrot. the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the management of migration flows and thus the regulation of immigration into the eu is one of our most important problems, and of course the solution of the problem requires a look beyond the national borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. cooperation and support with countries of transit and origin is part of the solution. but we also need an integrated approach. the need to regulate immigration is not just a matter of domestic policy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the epp-ed group has long called for a migration policy which is considerate and responsible towards the other member states. for example, you cannot start mass legalisation without information and consultation and then ask the eu for help when the effect of such a measure is felt. national immigration policies must in principle take into account the impact on other member states. the transfer of a policy area - that of economic migration - to community policy through the co-decision procedure is not a panacea. there are certainly many common problems, but at least as many are specifically national, regional or even local. the idea of a community policy on economic migration is attractive to many not only because it expands their own area of competence but also because it could help to enforce an immigration policy that would not find a majority at national level. but such a motivation does not meet the right to adequate solutions in the member states. policies can only succeed if they are shaped by our citizens in our states. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we have been thinking for a long time in our group about how to handle today's debate. the last time i spoke in this house in a debate on home and security policy was when i spoke about the european arrest warrant and the european public prosecutor. i had a huge fight with the president of the council. i do not want to repeat that today. i would like to make a few comments, however, mr president-in-office of the council and mr commissioner. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. we all sat here six years ago and said the exact same thing. graham watson was the chairman of the committee at the time. the commissioner was named vitorino and he presented us with a so-called scoreboard after tampere, which already contained all the measures that you, mr president-in-office, and you, mr commissioner, have described. in this scoreboard, that's why it said so, there were clear times. measure a: implementation in the member states in period b, report from the commission to the council in period c, etc. why are we sitting here today, six years later, again discussing the same questions, for example the passerelle clause? six years ago we discussed with great hope that the treaty of nice states that from 1999, when it enters into force five years later, in 2004, subject to unanimity in the council, it should be reviewed that the policy areas we are talking about should be transferred to the codecision procedure. two years later, nothing has happened! ewa klamt has made an important point: we do not have to interfere with the competence of national, local and regional authorities when it comes to integration or implementation procedures in the asylum field. but we cannot allow that there are no community regulations where they are indispensable. the migration flows on the southern coasts of europe which we describe here cannot be solved in a restrictive way alone. they require an approach combining the fight against organised crime, the legalisation of immigration and a coordinated integration policy. we all know that. why then do the member states refuse to implement the proposals just described by commissioner frattini? i think i have an answer to that: they refuse because these policy areas - external border control, asylum, citizenship, freedom of establishment, free movement, police policy, justice policy, all constitutive elements of statehood - are presented to the citizens: we have the power in the state and not any other. the transfer of such rights to the european union is a form of surrender of sovereignty which has been shunned by the states for 15 years. i can understand that because it's a piece of national power surrender. but we have to weigh the prospect of giving up this piece of power against the prospect of continuing to allow migration, human trafficking, irregular migration and the resulting problems. the european union's interior ministers have failed to do this for ten years. this has to stop! the approach adopted in our question and the answers we have heard today - in particular from mr frattini - are therefore correct. but we must act. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is difficult for me to say, but mr schulz is absolutely right in everything he has said. i do not think i have ever said that in this house, and i am not sure i will say it again. but he has made it clear where the problem lies: in the balance between the sovereignty of the member states and the union's capacity to act. how much are the member states prepared to give up and how much do they want to give the union? we have a phrase in german that accurately reflects this: the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. in this case, the german presidency may perhaps be able to send a signal to take the european union forward. i would like the countries of finland and portugal to act as particle accelerators. because germany is big, but sluggish. germany is a country like france, with a great tradition, but slowly. it is a tanker that is not as fast and flexible, that is not as innovative in these respects as, say, a country like finland. the european council has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. in the context of immigration, minister beckstein made a fatal mistake when he said that it would not be unreasonable for spain to take in 25 000 people. it's not about whether it's reasonable for them to be taken in, it's about the fact that these are people's fates off the coast, that these people are in need. as regards labour migration, the federal minister of the interior, mr schäuble, has made it very clear that legal migration cannot be separated from the labour market. so we know nothing happens there. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. but why do we need an agency to guard our own fundamental rights? so you see where the problem is. use your particle accelerator skills to help us. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. i'm looking forward to this with concern.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. immigration to europe, whether legal or illegal, is a community priority. in times of open borders, immigration problems can no longer be solved by national governments alone. no member state will be able to escape this shared responsibility, including germany. the german presidency of the council is also clear on one thing: we cannot pretend that legal and illegal migration have nothing to do with each other. the opposite is true. both are mutually exclusive. migration is a complex phenomenon and as old as mankind itself! this cannot be solved by deportations and border posts. the council of the european union must therefore finally address this problem, not only in the interests of europe but above all in the interests of the people who, in their despair, follow the prophecy of a supposedly better future and unfortunately often pay for it with their lives. the comments made by mr beckstein of the christian social union of bavaria in tampere on solidarity with spain are more than vulgar and reveal once again the true spirit of this man and of large sections of his party.
in writing. the principle of 'nulla poena sine lege' is an undeniable principle in all modern criminal law systems. it says that only what was punishable at the time of the crime can be sanctioned by criminal law. in the context of this framework decision, this means that a previous conviction which took place in state a may not be taken into account in a new criminal proceedings in state b if the underlying act would not have been punishable under the national law of state b. since this can ultimately only be established by, for example, a judge in state b re-enacting the entire proceedings from state a, including the taking of evidence, i.e. interviewing witnesses, which is neither desirable nor possible, it must be sufficient that he has reasonable doubts as to such criminality. if a judge has such doubts, he should no longer be allowed to take such a prior conviction into account. unfortunately, this is not explicitly regulated in the present framework decision. i had tabled an amendment to that effect. however, there was no longer sufficient time for discussion in committee as the deadline for amendments fell during the summer break and the vote took place immediately afterwards without further discussion in committee. i am very sorry about this, because with a little more time the problem i have described could have been avoided.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to make a statement on the eurling report. the report does contain many statements with which i can agree. i have rejected it because i am opposed to full membership of turkey in the european union and the report contains many conditions but does not exclude the objective of full membership. i also rejected it because it did not call for the immediate suspension of the accession negotiations with turkey. it is intolerable that negotiations should continue with a turkish government from whose ranks pope benedict was recently compared to hitler and mussolini. it was turkish politicians who spoke most bitterly about pope benedict's speech in my country. but i trust the french people on this issue. i assume that accession will not take place because in france the majority will vote against it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the eurling report because i think it is a good one, because it is critical and because it is the best report of its kind we have had so far. i voted for it, even though i don't like everything. i do not agree with what has happened in this report with regard to the armenian question. let us imagine that germany would always use the holocaust that took place under the hitler regime only in quotation marks or would only refer to it as the so-called holocaust. the same is true of the armenian question in turkey. i voted for the eurling report, although the majority accepted the passage that the aim must be full membership of turkey in the european union. i do not support this objective, of course, because turkey is not in a position to join and is not willing to meet our conditions, and because i know - and everyone here knows - that the eu cannot afford turkey. i therefore found it easy to agree to this report, because the statements which were included against my wishes and which i have just enumerated are so obviously nonsensical that the report is, on the whole, a good opinion from parliament.
in writing. i have agreed to the report, despite the emphasis it places on the objective of full membership. i have voted in name along with the other cdu/csu meps on this point to express our opposition to full membership for turkey. the report is to be welcomed because it contains a realistic and critical view of the situation in turkey. the report finds that turkey has still far from fulfilled the copenhagen criteria since the start of the accession negotiations in key areas such as human rights and religious freedom. the lack of any consideration of the fate of the armenians in turkey is also clearly mentioned. turkey's membership of the eu is unthinkable without a commitment to historical facts. the report also calls for a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem. without recognition of cyprus, the eu will have to suspend accession negotiations. turkey's accession would stretch the eu and weaken it. the success story of european unification can only be continued with a strong eu. the citizens reject a europe without political or geographical contours. there must be no automatic expansion. we want turkey to be an important partner alongside the eu and therefore support a privileged partnership as an alternative to full membership.
president of the council. the european union is concerned about the recent developments in sudan, in particular the deteriorating security and humanitarian situation in darfur. the presidency, together with hr solana, has worked closely with eu partners and the international community to establish common objectives and cooperation to build a lasting peace in darfur. the eu special representative for sudan, pekka haavisto, appointed in the summer of 2005, will also continue to monitor the overall situation in sudan, coordinate eu action and participate in the discussions with sudan as the eu's representative. the darfur peace agreement, signed between the sudanese government and the minni minnawi forces of the slm rebel group in may, was seen as an opportunity for peace. the peace agreement was expected to bring an end to the three-year conflict, which has claimed nearly 300,000 lives and displaced more than two million people. however, four months later, the security and humanitarian situation in the region is rapidly deteriorating. violent attacks on villages and refugee and idp camps have increased, particularly in recent months. the sudanese government has strengthened its military presence in darfur. both sudanese government forces and rebel groups are violating ceasefire agreements. the deteriorating security situation has led to an increase in the number of refugees and people in need of humanitarian assistance. at the same time, humanitarian access has become increasingly difficult aid reaches only about 50% of those in need. the implementation of the darfur peace agreement, which has made little progress, would have a direct impact on the lives of some six million darfuris. the implementation of the peace agreement would allow the refugees to return home and resume their normal lives. it would enable the introduction of agriculture, which would improve food security, the establishment of schools and health care, and the safeguarding of basic living conditions - to name just a few benefits. the prerequisite for all this is an improvement in the security situation. the inclusion of the groups excluded from the darfur peace agreement in the peace process is a prerequisite for securing the implementation of the agreement. in order to improve the security situation, it is essential that the parties to the conflict commit themselves to ceasefire agreements and that the ceasefire be observed. the eu has repeatedly called on the parties to the conflict to respect their obligations under the peace agreement and the 2004 n'djamena humanitarian ceasefire agreement. the european union, in particular the special representative, mr haavisto, has also been active in bringing the outsiders into the peace process and the darfur peace agreement. the european union is concerned about the impact of the conflict in darfur on the overall peace process in sudan. the conflict in darfur has serious implications for regional stability in east africa and the horn of africa, in particular in chad and the central african republic. in support of the darfur peace process, an african union peacekeeping mission, the african union mission in sudan (amis), was launched in 2004. the eu has supported amis through the african peace facility (apf) since the launch of the mission. in total, the union's financial contribution to amis has been approximately eur 242 million. the union has also provided material, logistical and design support, as well as staff. the member states have also supported the operation through significant bilateral contributions. amis, the first peacekeeping mission in the history of the african union, has done a good job in extremely difficult circumstances. however, its capacity and resources are insufficient to meet the challenges of darfur. despite the large amount of eu funding, the operation has also been facing serious financial difficulties. from this point of view, it is clear that the only possible and realistic solution to the peace-keeping operation in darfur is a un operation. the eu strongly supports un security council resolution 1706 adopted on 31 august. the resolution extends the mandate of the un peacekeeping mission already in south sudan, unmis, to darfur to continue the work begun by amis. the main task of the un operation would be to support the implementation of the darfur peace agreement. the protection of civilians and the monitoring of the ceasefire would be an essential part of the mandate of the operation. as the main supporter of amis, the european union is deeply concerned by the sudanese government's refusal to accept the un operation in darfur. the un operation is essential to improve the security situation in darfur and to implement the peace agreement in a sustainable manner. however, darfur cannot be left in the 'safety zone'. the eu therefore welcomes the decision taken by the african union in new york on 20 september to extend the mandate of amis until the end of the year. the eu is committed to supporting amis also during this so-called 'transition phase'. the eu continues to strongly urge the government of sudan to accept the transfer of amis to un control in accordance with un resolution 1706. the union has repeatedly expressed its concern and has discussed the matter with the government of sudan. the eu has also called on other international actors to take action to convince the government of sudan of the usefulness and necessity of the un operation for the peace process in darfur and the sudan as a whole. with this in mind, the union presidency, high representative solana, special representative haavisto and the member states raised the issue at length during their meetings during the un general assembly ministerial week in new york. the eu is deeply concerned about the human rights violations in darfur. women and children in particular are the victims of rape and other forms of physical violence. the union shall support the work of the un rapporteur on human rights in improving the human rights situation. the eu has repeatedly reminded the government of sudan of its responsibility to protect its citizens from all forms of violence and to ensure respect for human rights. the eu is one of the main donors to the reconstruction of sudan after the civil war. at the donors' conference in oslo in april 2005, the commission and the member states jointly pledged significant support to meet immediate needs and to start reconstruction. the eu is ready to support the reconstruction of darfur as well, once the darfur peace process has started to take shape. the union also provides substantial humanitarian aid to sudan and darfur. the eu's visible and active role in the sudan and darfur issues is important. the situation in sudan and darfur is one of the most important issues in africa and in the common foreign and security policy and will remain one of the main issues on the agenda during finland's presidency of the european union. the situation in sudan and darfur shall also be raised at all key meetings and meetings with third parties, including high-level meetings. without active action, darfur risks being dragged into a new cycle of violence. we can't afford that.
the commission's vice-president mr president, madam minister, as everyone is aware, we are at a critical juncture in darfur. the humanitarian tragedy continues and even worsens, leading to more deaths and suffering. darfur is at risk of falling back into a general war at any moment, with unforeseeable and incalculable consequences for both the stability of the country and the region. the peace in south sudan could be threatened. several neighbouring countries, such as chad, the central african republic, uganda and even further afield, such as somalia and the republic of congo, could be affected. if we are at the peak of this crisis, there is still a chance to avoid the worst, to bring back peace and stability. the commission welcomes the decision of the african union to extend its mandate until 31 december. this will avoid a security vacuum in darfur at a time when violence is again unleashed and the process initiated by the abuja peace agreements is broken. we regret, however, that the sudanese government has not yet accepted security council resolution 1706, which sets out the framework for a transfer of military responsibilities from the african union to the united nations. it should be remembered that this transfer was already decided by the african union itself last march. the commission considers this transfer essential for the restoration of peace in darfur. it is therefore important to convince khartoum to accept it. peace in darfur cannot be achieved without the khartoum agreement, let alone against khartoum. khartoum denounced the transfer as a western plot. sometimes there was talk of a zionist plot. it's baseless. i know. there is no agenda of the international community to undermine sovereignty or, worse, to overthrow the regime of sudan. this shows the urgency of both sides quickly re-establishing a passionate dialogue on darfur and the question of transfer, in order to remove any misunderstandings that may still exist on this subject. this is the subject of the intense diplomatic activity in which the commission is currently taking part. the aim of the transfer of responsibility from the african union to the united nations is to restore security and stability in darfur, as well as to protect civilians and enable humanitarian organizations to carry out their work. it should be recalled that 13 aid workers have been killed in recent months. this transfer is essential to restore a climate of trust between the protagonists and to allow a serious relaunch of the abuja peace agreement for darfur, to get the non-signatories to sign it, to support the concrete implementation of the agreement, to avoid calling into question the architecture resulting from the north-south peace agreement. all these aspects are also in the interest of khartoum. the current verbal overreach, like the intensification of the fighting, is a dead end. the extremists who think they can win by following the logic of the worst and radicalization are wrong. they're wrong. this approach can only backfire. the conclusions of the last general affairs council send a very clear and very strong message to both the rebels and khartoum that they are responsible for their own actions. the commission believes that there is still room for de-escalation and for a return to genuine dialogue. but we must act quickly before that gap closes. it is in this spirit and with a willingness to listen that president barroso of the european commission and commissioner louis michel, my colleague, intend to travel to khartoum shortly to meet president bashir there, in order to advance the transition process of the african union at the united nations and to relaunch the abuja peace process.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the situation for the people still surviving in darfur is desperate. janjaweed militias continue to attack and destroy villages. torture, rape and forced recruitment are commonplace. parts of darfur are no longer accessible to international aid agencies. the sudanese government would have an obligation to protect its own people. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. i would like to express my fear clearly: the government is probably trying to complete its strategy of extermination and expulsion. in this situation, it is imperative that the international community implement un security council resolution 1706, which allows for the deployment of up to 25 000 un troops. the african union, which has done everything in its power, also supports the replacement of the un troops, but it is of course important to continue to provide the african union with all possible support until then. i think that this is the second best solution, frankly, and that the un troops would be needed now. the members of the security council have a special responsibility, but above all the veto powers; the european union is a global community, and it is not just a national interest that must be pursued. i would also like to turn in particular to china, which jointly confirmed with the eu on 11 september, and i now quote in english, that leaders emphasised that transition from eu to united nations operations would be conducive to peace in darfur. we therefore call on china to use its influence in sudan to ensure that the deployment of un troops in darfur is approved immediately.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, i do not need to repeat what has just been said with all the frightful cruelty about the situation in darfur. i would like to say at this point that i am not convinced by the contributions of the presidency, the minister and also by yours, mr frattini. as long as the responsible actors of the european union - and you are the council and the presidency - do not even acknowledge that there is a genocide taking place now, if you only talk about how we will participate in reconstruction when there is peace and so on and so forth, then i wonder why you do not say what it is really about. it is first of all a question of putting an end to the genocide that is now taking place. after that, we can start again. we must ensure clarity, including within the european union. we have a dilemma in the security council, china and russia are blocking. that is why we must abolish the right of veto in the security council. no country in the world should have the right to veto the continuation of genocide! secondly - and we europeans can - we must make it clear that the so-called sovereignty of the sudanese state is quite negotiable in such dramatic circumstances. the protection of human life human security is the highest good, not the supposed sovereignty of an undemocratic, brutal, failing state. if we recall the debates on the deployment of troops in the congo, this time in lebanon there are 22 000 soldiers. we cannot simply say: 'well, it is good that there is an extension until december, and we hope that by then 22 000 troops will be available for a un force.' it's not gonna work. that would mean that we would continue to watch the genocide until december and then deal with it again without having done anything. this cannot be european policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation in the sudanese province of darfur is obviously terrible. there are brutal expulsions. jean ziegler has described it as a "terrible tragedy". but it is quite easy to say: then, as the un resolution says, troops should be sent; that solves the problem. you all know what that un resolution says. it says that the sudanese government must agree, as is customary, and the sudanese government does not. that is to say, what is needed here is a political solution and not the call for troops or the preparation of troops as is happening within nato. the role of the european union is indeed as described by the council and the commission. it's very flattering to say we want the troops. the problem is that there are simply certain ground rules that must be followed. these basic rules say that there must actually be an agreement from this government, and there is no agreement. i would like to reiterate what the green group said: there are very specific economic interests, particularly in the area of south sudan, which also play a major role in this conflict. and it is not just china that is involved, but also european countries, like my own country: germany also plays an important role in this, for a major railway line is to be built. in this respect, the call to help people sounds wonderful. i would certainly support it, but only if it is realistic and actually raises more humanitarian aid.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner, and also thank the rapporteur for this excellent report, which touches on all the issues that are relevant when talking about india. the commissioner mentioned one specific point to which i think we should give in-depth consideration, and that is that india might finally become a geopolitical centre in the 21st century. i think he is right about that and the european union and the commission will have to make up their minds. you cannot say ‘either india or china’; that is not the right approach. but we will certainly have to focus, because to deal with both countries and many more countries to come as regards bilateral agreements might be something that is impossible for the commission whilst making sure that the multilateral round flourishes. so i would like to point out to the rapporteur and the house that my group will be a little more cautious when it comes to a free-trade agreement. we are not against a free-trade agreement; quite the opposite. we already argued in favour of a free-trade agreement and regional agreement in 2002, when i presented my own report to this house, but i think we should first have an in-depth debate and discussion on the issue. the commission will produce its new policy report on 4 october, in only a few weeks. so we will not support a free-trade agreement at the moment, because we want to have a debate in our group first and we want to be clear that parliament will be fully involved in the debate and the consultation process. it is important and relevant to see a shift from the multilateral to the more bilateral agreement and to make sure that there is some coherence when it comes to trade policy. that is one of the reasons why tomorrow we are not going to support the idea of a free-trade agreement at this stage. i am happy also that mr karim touched on the various high-tech issues. i think it is absolutely essential that we focus more on india and cooperate more closely with it. now, everything i said is not on behalf of glyn ford, who is the shadow rapporteur. he apologises to mr karim for not being here. he has to go back to england, but he will certainly follow up the issues and discuss them in detail.
the next item is the report by mrs hiltrud breyer, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the prospects for women in international trade [2006/2009 (ini) ] (a6-0254/2006).
thank you, thank you. this is of course a very important point. the services will check this to make sure that everything is in order.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i can only support the motion for a resolution because there are considerable differences in the translations. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would have liked your colleague, who is responsible for trade policy, to follow this debate tonight, because it is precisely his subject. but i hope this is not the last time we debate this issue in parliament. globalisation and the liberalisation of world trade are not gender neutral. i am therefore pleased to present, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, the own-initiative report on 'the prospects for women in international trade'. the relationship between gender and trade is not only a new issue for women, but also for governments and trade policy makers and also for us in the european parliament. it is therefore high time that we address the debate on how global trade affects gender equality and how gender equality affects global trade. the report includes a wide range of concrete actions to tackle gender blindness in international trade. i would like to emphasize that it was unanimously adopted in the women's committee. it makes clear that we need coherence between the objective of european equality policy and the objectives of trade, development policy and aid programmes to promote equality between women and men. worldwide, 70 percent of the poor are women. because of their gender, they do not have equal access to property, land and education and are discriminated against in many ways in the labour market. market liberalisation and the expansion of international trade relations, which do not fully address structural discrimination against women, will contribute to the deterioration of the situation of women. for well-educated women, globalisation has brought new career opportunities. but for poor women, the conditions of life have deteriorated as a result of market liberalization. so microcredit and development aid will be a drop in the bucket unless we start to fundamentally change these global economic structures. the eu represents the interests of its member states at many levels of trade policy and negotiates treaties, for example in the wto negotiations. while the eu has set milestones for gender equality in europe in the past, there is a yawning void when it comes to the implementation of the principle in global trade policy. the women's committee will not tolerate this silence any longer. as a first step, we call for gender mainstreaming in international trade policy, which includes clear monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. such an assessment is, for example, the ranking of member states in terms of how they implement equality in the labour market. the aim of equality must not be a mere wishful thinking. the commission will therefore set up a gender equality and trade unit within the european commission, which will provide data broken down by gender. the european commission is invited to present an annual progress report on gender equality in international trade. the commission also proposes to set up a fund to help women access credit and education. politicians without money are just poets. therefore, responsible trade policy means that this can only be achieved if the cash flows are transparent. we therefore call for the introduction of gender budgeting. we believe that this is essential at all levels of trade policy. the women's committee will hold a hearing on this next week. the eu should become a beacon for gender equality in international trade policy, just as it has been for women's equality in europe. the european commission should actively contribute to the reduction of discrimination against women in trade. this includes ensuring that european companies producing abroad and benefiting from eu market access programmes are not involved in the inhumane exploitation of women. it is also important that the eu carries out a gender analysis of the situation of women before concluding trade agreements. we cannot in the eu encourage trafficking in women, which is a massive violation of women's rights. the international trade organization, the companies and structures are dominated by men, we know that. quotas remain essential to achieve equality between women and men in positions of power and decision-making. effective quotas, which are more than a mere declaration, will help to make international trade relations gender-equitable. i am therefore pleased that the women's committee has also taken up an initiative which exists in norway. since 2006, listed companies have been obliged to increase the proportion of women on supervisory boards to 40%. the european parliament's resolution on women in international trade would be a great success and an important step towards gender equality. we will have to put pressure on the commission to implement parliament's request. i thank all the members for their positive support for this report and for their suggestions, and i hope that we can bring the report to a successful conclusion in the vote tomorrow.
i have to say, madam president, a report on trade and poverty was heard in this parliament quite recently. the committee on women's rights had tabled a number of very good amendments to this effect, all of which were accepted. i am grateful to mrs breyer for this owninitiative report, because it is the logical outcome of the imperative to address once again the issue of the role of trade and women in their interrelationship. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them into account in its future work. trade agreements, remember that? we had the agnoletto report, which stated that human rights clauses should be included in all international treaties. there are individual human rights and social human rights. so it is more than justified that social human rights clauses should be included in all trade agreements. this means the right to education, the right to training and the right to free health care. if we want to do that - and we are in favour of that - we must not, of course, want to put in place a european services directive which puts these very things on the market and thus makes them dependent on the purse. it is perfectly clear that this will be used in the same way for gats, and then women in certain countries will have no chance because there are no funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i'm telling you from my own experience, i'm from the left-wing pds party in the federal republic of germany. we have a 50% quota for all members of parliament, and if we were to introduce this everywhere in general, we would be a long way ahead in this society.
member of the commission. madam president, i thank the honourable members of parliament for their comments on this significant area which touches upon many important facets over and above trade issues. i should like to refer to some points raised during tonight's discussion. as to the issue of european companies that profit from eu market access programmes, within the framework of eu cooperation policy that should not contribute to the exploitation of women employees, i must underline that recent eu cooperation agreements include commitments to the ilo core conventions on labour standards. the eu has included commitments to the ilo core labour standards in all its recent bilateral trade agreements and the gsp and the gsp-plus, which provide trade preferences to developing countries that ratify ilo conventions. on the impact of trade liberalisation, i should like to underline that this has provided new opportunities for many women in developing countries, providing new employment and, in many cases, reducing the gender gap in wages leading to greater empowerment and social standing of women in society. the evidence suggests that over one million women in india have increased their social standing as a result of trade openings. the majority of these are from poor backgrounds. let me now turn to the inclusion of gender equality in international trade policies, the european union has been a strong supporter of the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises and more generally of the integration of decent work and social issues in the oecd investment activities. we remain in favour of observer status for the ilo in the wto, though we have to acknowledge that there is resistance from other members. on gender-impact assessments, gender has been included in recent trade sustainability impact assessments. as quality of gender data increases, the trade sias will be strengthened in the future, and certainly progress can be made in this area. that is why the commission will explore the potential of decent work indicators, including data on the work of women and men. as regards the question of gender budgeting as a standard tool in budgetary policies, the commission will respond in writing. on the issue of gender budgeting more generally, that is an issue that covers many different areas of operation. however, we look forward to hearing about the progress made on this issue from the european parliament and we will follow the committee’s work with interest. with reference to the 40% quota for women on boards of joint stock companies, as in norway, i must point out that this is primarily a matter for the individual member states. finally, with regard to the formation of a formal trade and gender desk within dg trade, i must underline again that within the commission dg relex leads on the monitoring of human rights in third countries. dg trade liaises regularly with the relex family on human rights with regard to trade agreements, such as gsp, and liaises with the international labour organization and dg employment on labour rights with regard to trade agreements. the european union, in fact, withdrew gsp from myanmar for serious and systematic violations of the ilo core labour rights and this shows that the system currently in operation works well.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr pedro guerreiro, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the improvement of the economic situation in the fisheries sector [2006/2110 (ini) ] (a6-0266/2006).
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to begin by thanking members for the various points they have raised. i will try to respond to some of them. firstly, with regard to the need for a guarantee fund, the basic problem with guarantee funding is that it can amount to operating aid, which is not permissible under competition rules. we are looking further into this and welcome any proposals from member states on how such funds may be operated in accordance with competition rules. the commission could approve such schemes at national level if they guaranteed reimbursement of all public aid under commercial conditions. as regards the long-term aim to help the industry adapt to high fuel prices, the commission places a high priority on research and development for more fuel-efficient and more environmentally friendly fishing techniques. significant funds are being provided to support such work under the seventh framework programme for research. renewable energy, in particular biofuels, represents one such measure. research on the design of new, more selective or more fuel-efficient fishing gear is encouraged and can be funded under the framework programme, with initial acquisition of such equipment also financeable under the european fisheries fund. the european fisheries fund, agreed to last june, provides for engine renewals and, in this regard, small-scale vessels are treated more favourably. in fact, regarding small-scale coastal fisheries, we have catered for specificities in the rescue and restructuring scheme and in the european fisheries fund. one example is the acquisition of new engines or engine renewal. we are studying what else can be done in order to help small-scale coastal fisheries. regarding the comment by mr allister and others that the commission is taking advantage of the increase in fuel prices to reduce the fleet, let me repeat the facts as i know them. there have been years on end of over-fishing and this has caused falling catches. this means a vast over-capacity today: we have vessels with a capacity vastly exceeding what can sustainably be caught. those are the facts. the vast majority of stocks are being fished in a completely unsustainable manner. acknowledging this will help us find solutions for the long-term benefit of future fishermen. if we continue to bury our heads in the sand, we will only prolong the agony before fisheries die a natural death through continued over-fishing. we agree that special attention needs to be paid to marketing with a view to increasing the added value of fishery products for fishermen. we are actively looking at this and the renewal of the common organisation of the market should answer the sector’s concerns in this area, in particular by helping the sector to improve first-sale prices. the de minimis ceiling of 30 000 proposed by the commission is a balanced and reasonable compromise. the commission has proposed raising the ceiling from the previous amount of 3000 to 30 000. the review of this threshold has been carried out in the light of the specific characteristics of fishing enterprises, independently of the sector’s current difficulties. it was commented that the commission was proposing too little too late. i acknowledge that the communication was issued later than desired, but one has to appreciate the complexity of the situation we are dealing with and the constraints of community legislation, in particular regarding competition rules. this is why it was important to describe carefully the rules and conditions necessary for designing rescue and restructuring schemes. many fishing enterprises will benefit from the measures proposed if member states take up the challenge and prepare the necessary framework swiftly. these measures are substantial: financial restructuring, renewal of engines and of fishing gear and aid to temporary cessation. according to the guidelines, state aid for the rescue and restructuring of smes in the area of fisheries can cover up to 75% of the total cost of a rescue and restructuring plan. may i suggest that we work together and do our utmost to make the best use of these possibilities.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr albert jan maat, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a management plan for the north sea herring and sole fisheries (com (2005) 0714 c6-0034/2006 2006/0002 (cns)) (a6-0265/2006).
member of the commission. madam president, i should like to thank the honourable members for their contributions. let me start by trying to clear the air with regard to the north sea regional advisory council. the commission has held a series of consultation meetings and exchanges of views since june 2004. i do not believe that any other fisheries issue has been the subject of such extensive dialogue with the racs. after the north sea rac decided to reserve its position until the commission had made a specific proposal concerning long-term management targets and reference points, the commission stated that it would put forward a proposal and even inform the rac of its technical content at a meeting in november 2005. a discussion has since proceeded in good order on the basis of the commission’s proposal. i am pleased that the north sea rac has recognised that many elements of the commission’s proposal are valuable and appropriate. regarding maximum sustainable yields, a number of stocks were brought into long-term management plans some years ago, which included low-target fishing mortalities, such as mackerel, herring and, more recently, haddock. these plans have proved valuable and helpful to the industries concerned. i believe similar benefits can be extended to the flatfish sector. discussions concerning the maximum sustainable yield should also take place, but that is a wider-scale issue. the immediate concern is to provide the flatfish fishery with a sound economic basis. with regard to the point raised concerning tacs for three years, i must again underline that a three-year tac would not help to recover the stock, simply because adjustments cannot be made in good time. how can one make adjustments mid-course if there is an urgent reason to reduce the tac? the north sea rac has revised its position and it no longer advises such a measure. i can accept the argument that a three-year tac will give greater security to fishermen, but not the argument that a three-year tac would mean greater sustainability. with regard to discards, we are actively considering what can be done to solve this problem. it is one of the top priorities for the remainder of my mandate. i cannot agree more with mr davies that fishermen need to be integrated into the process. we are doing our utmost to meet with and consult all fishing representatives.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by rosa miguélez ramos, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the application of council regulation (ec) no 1185/2003 on the removal of shark fins from ships (com (2006) 2054 final) (a6-0263/2006).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not if we are here at this time - you must be here, we must be here, the commissioner is also present - then we should not argue for 15 minutes. whether it's midnight or a quarter of an hour later, it really doesn't matter. i'll make the most of my five minutes. commissioner, we are quite in agreement on the assessment: we have a boom in the organic market and a shift from the producers who previously marketed directly, from the organic shops, from the wholesale food shops to chains who now want to take advantage of the boom in the organic market and who are now entering. when they get in, it's 10 or 20 percent. this is a lot which cannot be provided by european producers. they react to the existing regulation in different ways: once you say you want to change the existing regulation on third country trade, that means an amendment. in the area of the core regulation, you want a completely new regulation. we have questioned this, especially since you have worked very hard in the basic regulation - almost every third article - to say: 'and we will regulate the details in the comitology procedure', that is, in the implementing provisions. that's too vague for us. we in parliament have asked you to do better. that is why we have only submitted a working document and not a report. as regards imports, i.e. the ratio with third countries, we see the need to obtain the corresponding quantities needed by the chains; however, they are not produced in accordance with eu standards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are taking this into account, while we are concerned that the basic regulation may not meet the requirements of the chains too much, which are no longer interested in the name of the producers, in the name of traditional organic farms, but are seeking to make purchases anonymous so that they can enter the market with their names. so there are different tendencies here. while we have concerns in one case, we are with you in this one. we want eu standards to be respected in third countries. we have spoken of the third countries which have been notified. but 70% of imports still come to us with so-called import licences: the process of production is not examined here, but basically only the accompanying documents that prove that something is organic. we know paper is patient. so it is important that we also enforce the european union's standards in these countries. they say that we have gone a little further in our amendments. no, we are in agreement on the objectives, commissioner. we are making some clarifications and we want the european parliament to be involved in this process of notification, as we want the individual countries to be involved. we would like to see this documented in a report from the commission, which will tell us how far you have come in compiling the data, how far the notification has progressed. we also want a database to be set up where the data collected on third countries will be recorded, so that targeted controls - you know your own cardboard box - can also be used to carry out a kind of risk control to ensure that there is no cheating. we would like to see the criteria we have mentioned taken into account in this report, so that you can present to parliament a disclosure of the data collected. we do not want to see the same thing happen as in the qualified market access study, where the end result is just market access and qualification is left behind. all that we are now planning is an example - because you have addressed the wto - which is taking us in a direction where trade is also 'qualified'. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, miloslav ransdorf, who has gone into the matter and tried to cover all the aspects. i also thank you for the philosophical considerations at the very beginning of your speech. we must be aware that we europeans will not be able to maintain our leading position in various markets and technologies forever and that we have already lost our leading position - the control competence for many technologies - in many markets. the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the european economy. in the field of nanotechnology, we europeans are the world's leaders. we're the cutting edge of technology. but we're putting -- and this is the limitation -- not just the technology in the center, but the people. this is the specific european approach. this is the balance that is reflected in this report - at least as adopted by the committee on industry, research and energy. and it has to stay that way. the report in its present form strikes a balance between high tech and the limits of ethics, and between industrial policy and the interests of consumers. both must be balanced, because both are important. but to stay ahead of the curve in terms of technology, we need clear support from the european union. this is done both through the seventh framework programme for research and through this action plan, and - this is at least as important - it must also happen through standardisation and standardization. we need a globally binding framework for global competition. here we can follow the example of gsm technology, where we as europeans have actively promoted the process and have achieved a certain position in the world market. however, there is a big problem with the whole nano-debate: the subject is too abstract. people can't even begin to imagine what that means. this opens the door to the still existing 'fear industry' in europe. this is also clear from some of the motions in this house. we have seen it with software patents and in some cases with reach. we cannot afford to do this again with nanotechnology, because the 'fear industrialists', the fear-mongers, are becoming the great disruptors. but right now, we need every job. we are talking every day about the lisbon strategy and we must not torpedo it at the same time. that is why we need to make the nano subject more concrete. there are already jobs created by nanotechnology. i have visited such establishments myself and am quite fascinated by them. there is enormous potential in the semiconductor industry, in the automotive sector and in medical technology. risk assessment, yes, but not throwing everything at the same time. can any of you confirm to me that you do not use a mobile phone, despite knowing the risks? if the consumer values the benefits over the harms, he will use the technology. this is something very crucial. that's why we need informational self-determination. we, the european parliament, are contributing to this. stoa, the technology assessment committee of this house, is organizing nano-cafés in october. you are all cordially invited to brussels on 18 october.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what is the role of policy in the field of nanotechnology? we cannot be promoters and blindly follow the hype, nor can we use roadshows and nanocafés to appease people's real fears. we must not limit ourselves to the role of a mere promoter of nanotechnology. the role of politics is to protect consumers and the environment. we are using nanotechnology to bring consumer-grade products like cosmetics, cleaning products, textiles to market, which are entering a virtual lawless space. we have no legal framework to cover nanotechnology, as mr prodi has just said. the commission's scientific committee itself admitted on 29 september 2005 that, and i quote: 'we have significant gaps in the risk assessment, characterisation and measurement of nanoparticles. we know very little about the dose-response relationship. we don't know anything about the whereabouts, the stability of the nanoparticles in the human body. we know little about environmental toxicity, so we cannot ignore it and bury our heads in the sand, but we ask you as the commission to finally create a legal framework to protect consumers. we have not learned anything from the asbestos issue? we just heard that nanoparticles are able to break through the blood-brain barrier. if we know about these risks, we must create protective mechanisms. we cannot simply allow these products to be put on the market and tested on consumers. we cannot make consumers into guinea pigs! the role of politics is not to be a promoter of nanotechnology but to provide a comprehensive legal framework for regulation, control and measurement, all of which were addressed in your own scientific opinion. otherwise we are doing a disservice to nanotechnology. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet the needs of the world market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. there are significant gaps. i think it is quite irresponsible that the european commission, despite being aware of these gaps and the lack of methodology to be able to assess the risks at all, wants to put consumer goods on the market that are very close to the consumer without the risks having been excluded. i urge you once again to take up this matter. we haven't talked much about the dangers, the ethical issues, about enhancement, the enrichment of nanoparticles in humans, because we thought for a long time that this was science fiction. but these dangers are coming closer. i expect the european union to give the united states an answer. our response cannot be to follow the lemmings of a technology, but the european response to nanotechnology must be to take the risks into account in a social way.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to thank you, mr hutchinson, first of all for your excellent report, which will have the full support of my group. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. make your successes measurable, set goals, and track your progress! the millennium development goals are also the benchmark for us in evaluating the efficiency of our work in development policy. the united nations interim report was alarming to us. the objectives set were not achieved. this is a failure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this should be reason enough for the commission to review the effectiveness of its aid and, above all, for us to question the commission's self-analysis. once again, mr hutchinson, i congratulate you on your good work. they give the commission very clear instructions. but let me also take this opportunity to speak about our role as a parliament. we have also contributed to the failure so far. clearly, for years we have been passing budgets that have not served their purpose. but would we have been able to make better decisions? do we have enough information to do our surveillance? i question that. the commission has not yet presented a convincing project management approach to achieve the eight mdgs. the budgetary data submitted to us for decision are not very detailed. in 2005, we asked the european investment bank to benchmark its lending activities, i.e. to assess each loan against its contribution to the achievement of the millennium development goals. for the means we control ourselves, such a benchmarking does not exist. there is no institution that can take away from us the control of the funds we use. we should therefore also demand that the european parliament finally be involved in the whole chain of development cooperation, including the programming of the european development fund. we need models that link concrete targets and milestones at country level and down to regional level on the way to achieving the millennium development goals. we need from the commission in future sectoral country and regional reports, broken down down to the project level. we need reports which also include a list of the project promoters and the consultancies involved and the funds allocated to them. the hutchinson report contains 65 important proposals. this shows that there is a great deal of competence in this house which should be incorporated in the future. however, i see a second pillar of competence in the governments of the target regions, which are already involved, and in the supporting institutions operating in these regions, which should be much more involved. the report praises the approach that individual donors in a region should take the lead in a particular sector. we could consider doing so and, with the financial power of the european union compared to the united nations, take the lead in one of the eight millennium development goals. my suggestion is water. the european union could commit itself to the implementation of drinking water and waste water supply for the african continent together with local partners. we should be better off facing that than facing the recent scandal of poisoning of drinking water by european companies. we should therefore ask the commission to present a timetable for the time when all sub-saharan metropolises will be able to be provided with sustainable drinking water and waste water systems. we must insist on regular interim reports on the state of progress in this task. i ask the commission whether it has the structures to enable a master plan for such a task to be drawn up and whether it agrees that we need such a centre of expertise at international level. the levels of practice, policy and donors need to be better brought together. i would encourage the commission to organise an international conference on african development every two years, specifically to bring the claims and practical experience to the attention of policy makers and donors. they could put both successful and unsuccessful projects on public display in an exhibition and award successful projects. this should also be used as an opportunity to attract more professionals, but above all young people, to development cooperation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree with what mrs bozkurt said. i think it is inappropriate for a bulgarian observer to try to trample on the dignity of mrs járóka. that's what his e-mail contains. i expect the presidency to be rigorous in this matter. he doesn't belong in this room. (parliament adopted the resolution)
member of the commission. mr president, intellectual property rights (ipr) are at the heart of a knowledge-based economy. innovation is the key to europe’s prospects of becoming more competitive on a global level. protection of intellectual property is of crucial importance, because ipr not only rewards investment in new products and services but also ensures the transfer of technology stimulating further innovation. the recent consultation on the future of the patent system in europe delivered one simple message: the legal framework should offer an affordable patent protection for all businesses, small and big, ensure legal certainty and be applied for the benefit of all players. a solid legal framework is therefore essential. i must repeat that we need to keep up. compared to our major trading partners, europe is losing ground. the community patent remains blocked in the council, but recognising the economic importance of patents, i felt that it was not a good thing to leave the entire patent agenda in limbo. so, earlier this year, as you know, i launched a broad consultation of all interested parties on future patent policy in europe. the consultation has shown that industry favours the commission’s effort to simplify the patent system in europe and to make it more cost-effective. there are two major issues here: languages, or translation costs, on the one hand and the jurisdictional system on the other. there is strong support for the introduction of a community patent. however, industry is not enamoured of the political compromise reached in the council in 2003 on the community patent. it rejects the proposed solutions on both language and the jurisdictional system because they do not achieve the cost reductions and simplification of the patent system that industry is calling for. at the same time, there is also a strong call for the improvement of the existing european patent system, established by the munich convention, by the successful conclusion of a european patent litigation agreement (epla) on jurisdiction, and by the ratification and entry into force of the london agreement on language arrangements. it is interesting to note that no single initiative for the improvement of the eu patent system has received unanimous support from stakeholders. different stakeholders highlight different aspects, and many suggest that a package of different measures is needed, which should be implemented in parallel. i am therefore convinced that we need to take a multi-faceted approach. in order to succeed, we should tackle all the patent issues in one package. that package will have to respond to stakeholders’ criticism and needs. we will only succeed if we can demonstrate that what we propose will have added value compared to the status quo, in particular, regarding costs of patenting (translation costs) and legal certainty (jurisdictional system). we are currently working on the options for the way forward and will present them in a communication and action plan, which the commission should adopt before the end of this year. a key component of this work concerns the jurisdictional issue. at present, although business has a one-stop shop where it can acquire a patent (the epo), it may find itself defending the patent on several fronts at once. that is because the patents granted by the european patent office are in fact a bundle of national patents and can only be enforced by national courts. the possibility of multi-forum litigation concerning the same invention naturally adds cost, but even more importantly it creates uncertainty, as different courts in different countries can deliver diverging interpretations on the same patented invention. we need to tackle that issue as a matter of urgency. the current ‘patchwork’ may prevent patent holders from being able to enforce their rights and it discourages candidates, in particular smes looking for efficient and affordable patent protection, from using the european patent. europe is, at present, unable to offer innovative businesses an optimal solution when it comes to protecting their intellectual property. we cannot aspire to be the most competitive economy in the world if we do not find workable solutions for patent application and protection. the community patent and the initiatives to improve the european patent, that is, the london agreement on translations and the epla, are not mutually exclusive. they both aim for the same goal: a better, cheaper, more reliable patent system. that is why i want to pursue both. we face similar challenges in designing the jurisdictional arrangements for the community patent: we need to find a unified system that provides judicial independence and gives clarity and reliability to patent users while avoiding both over-centralisation and fragmentation. in order to achieve that objective, the community needs to get involved in the epla, which addresses shared responsibilities between member states and the community. it goes without saying that parliament will have to contribute when the community proceeds with the required proposals, in order to take this issue forward in the near future. i am aware of some critical voices against the epla. let me just say that i see the epla as a practical initiative to bring greater unity to the case law on patents in europe. and legal certainty is what our industry, big and small alike, need. there are hundreds of thousands of patents granted by the epo. even if we had a community patent, there would be a need to streamline the jurisdiction process for epo-granted patents. it is up to us to get involved in this initiative to ensure that it serves the competitiveness of our economy. i recognise that there are legitimate doubts and concerns: the cost of litigation under the epla, the impact of the rules of procedure, which we have yet to see, and the independence of the epla judges from the epo. but i am convinced that the best way to confront these problems is by engaging actively with the process and by securing an outcome that is satisfactory and fair to all concerned and in full conformity with eu law. of course, neither the community patent nor the epla are a panacea. there will always be businesses – the smaller ones – that prefer to deal with their national patent offices, or to use business models that do not rely on patents. we need to look at ways in which we can help and support them. and, of course, we need to ensure that large companies do not abuse their position, either by unfairly exploiting their own patents or by unfairly ignoring the patent rights of others. the consultation threw up many such issues, for example, the possible mediation mechanisms that could precede litigation, the need to create technology markets that would enable businesses to trade their ipr more successfully, and the idea of exchanging best practice between national patent offices, especially in terms of the special needs of smes. i will be responding to all these issues, in cooperation with my colleagues in the commission, and therefore intend to propose a comprehensive strategy. faced with a 21st-century global and knowledge-based economy, we urgently need to find a solution to the patent issue. i count upon parliament’s support in finding a comprehensive solution to these rather complex issues.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have been one of the two rapporteurs in the european parliament's steering group for the lisbon process for two years. you know that we started the lisbon process together in 2000. since then, we have not tired of pointing out in statements by heads of state or government and in resolutions of parliament that the further development of the european patent system is one of the crucial conditions for achieving the objectives defined by lisbon. commissioner mccreevy has made a very strong point about the importance of this issue. the aim must be to obtain a simple, inexpensive, and if possible pan-european patent, which will give the opportunity to protect innovations in the internal market not only to large industry but also to smes in particular. smes are in fact the ones holding the most innovative patents. it is crucial that we bring about a change in the current fragmented patent landscape in europe with the aim of drastically reducing the costs of advice, litigation and translation, which are again particularly burdensome for smes. that is the crucial objective we must achieve. of course, you can already protect your inventions anywhere in the eu, but you have to do so in practically all the member states either directly through the national patent offices or indirectly through the european patent office, with the bundled patents that have been discussed here. in the event of a dispute or infringement, you are theoretically liable to sue in all these countries, pay legal costs, etc. this needs to be addressed and made sustainable and practical, especially for smes. this is where the single market must develop. under your predecessor, commissioner bolkestein, a laudable proposal for a uniform european patent regulation to create a community patent was launched. but if article 308 is the legal basis and unanimity in the council is required, then agreement is difficult. in this case, the agreement fails because of the language dispute. at present, there are 20 official languages required in the council. after the next round of expansion, it will be 22. the industry rightly says that no one needs such a patent. it's so exorbitantly expensive that you can't do anything with it and it has virtually no economic value. the competitiveness of the european patent would also leave us far behind in world standards and would not provide the necessary quality. such a patent would be interesting, if at all, at most to very large, rich companies that can afford it. it would be completely useless for the medium-sized enterprises. the regulation is therefore binding. the council is not moving. the idea i put forward of continuing with the harmonization, which you, commissioner, kindly included in the consultations, is also rejected by all the parties, especially after the experience we have had in the second reading of the directive on computer-implemented inventions, which showed that there was a danger that legislation would have been introduced which might not improve the current patent system but would have significantly worsened it. so we are not getting anywhere with harmonization either. what's left then? the only thing left to do is to go ahead and develop the existing patent system. there are, however, institutional problems, on the one hand, the european union's perfectly legitimate claim that the member states should not regulate areas which are, at any rate, partly within their sphere of jurisdiction and the internal market, but on the other hand, the member states' efforts to make progress. i am of the opinion that we must try to link and solve these two problems. i think one conceivable option is that the european union should be involved in some way - which must be negotiated - in the european patent convention and in return the european union should address the institutional concerns about the epla, the convention on the establishment of a dispute settlement system for european patents. this could be a possible way of improving the situation as long as it is not possible to reach agreement in the council on a community patent. as regards the public criticism of the lobby, i think that the claim that the introduction of a common european court, as defined by the epla, would make it easier to patent software is nonsense, to say the least. this is a mere conjecture, for which there is no evidence. in one case it is a question of procedural law, in the other of substantive law. epla is not more expensive either. you have to see that apples are being compared to pears. the epla does not have to be litigated in all the countries involved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to thank commissioner mccreevy very much for the way in which the consultation was conducted. i have heard from the commissioner's public comments that he seems to be drawing the right conclusions from the outcome of the consultation. i would like to say on my own behalf and on behalf of the great majority of my group that we support this line. there is no alternative. otherwise the great project of developing the european patent system is doomed to failure.
member of the commission. mr president, i have listened carefully to the debate this afternoon. we all agree that the situation is not perfect and we all know that there are different views as to the right solutions. i am convinced that in an ideal world the community patent is the solution, but in the real world there is no prospect of agreement on the community patent in the near future. so should i sit around doing nothing, just waiting for something to turn up? well, that would certainly be an easy way out, but it would also be grossly irresponsible, because nothing will happen unless we take the initiative. the consultation delivered some clear and important messages. there is an overwhelming desire for a patent system that is simpler and more cost-effective and maintains the highest standards in the quality of its examination and grant procedures. all the stakeholders went to great lengths to convey their views to us. now, quite rightly, they expect action. and i agree. i believe the time has come to make a concerted push to improve the patent system in europe. as policymakers and regulators, it is our duty. currently, we are at a standstill. we have to take the first most difficult step in one direction or another. there is no perfect solution. no single element will provide all the answers. we need to combine different instruments to meet the different needs of different stakeholders. as i said in my introductory remarks, the community patent and the epla are not mutually exclusive initiatives; indeed, our aim should be to ensure that they converge. in both cases our goal is the same: a better, cheaper, more reliable patent system. i am not blind to the potential drawbacks and dangers of the epla. but we have a better chance of getting the right outcome for europe’s business if we actively engage in the negotiation of the agreement. the patent strategy now contains more than just our future plans for a community patent and epla. there is a whole range of framing and supporting measures that we need to consider, most of them directed at smaller companies. our objective is to produce a system that meets the needs of all stakeholders at all levels – national, european and community –and provides a fair balance between the diverse interests involved. i would like to make one final point. as a politician for 30 years now, i am not easily surprised. but this week i have been mildly surprised. i was mildly surprised that the outline for our future strategy, which i set out in a speech in helsinki some weeks ago, has been used by some to make assertions that the commission wishes to bring the computer-implemented inventions question back on to the agenda. now i am used to hearing strong arguments and to links being made, but this one leaves me quite perplexed. i have stated before this house on various occasions that as long as i am commissioner for the single market and services the commission will not present any initiative and will not carry out any work on this. some might like that, others might disapprove. but this parliament rejected the common position last year. i respect and accept that decision and will do absolutely nothing to turn it around. let me reassure you that i am a man of my word. when drawing conclusions from the consultation exercise, computer-implemented inventions were not in any way on my mind. that will remain so for the rest of my mandate. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not even four o'clock yet and we have been cancelled this week from the urgent debate which would have lasted only one hour. that means we'd be done by 5:00. there were important issues such as the coup in thailand or the situation in moldova, but the conference of presidents arbitrarily decided not to hold an emergency debate. i would like to make a strong protest at the end of the sitting. it was said that this was the second meeting in september, but that is not true. we have caught up with the august plenary at the beginning of september and this is now the september plenary. it is our right in itself to have an urgent debate at each regular meeting in strasbourg. i ask you to convey this protest to the bureau and the conference of presidents.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. sometimes, unfortunate circumstances can make things go the way we don't want them to. there is the sad case of the murder of the journalist, we will debate that. this sad murder shouldn't be a reason for us to argue. we shall have the debate, but i recommend, as mr cohn-bendit has said, that we reach a unanimous resolution at the next part-session. it's a sad day for this country.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it's a difficult situation we're discussing here. however, i think that the remarks made by mr solana and also by mrs ferrero-waldner show that the european union, represented by its high representative and the foreign affairs commissioner, is making an effort to respond in an appropriate way. the normal reaction is anger. it's quite clear that there's a dying system out there trying to gain respect, attention and possibly advantages as a system by provoking. that's very clear. and the normal reaction is that you don't want to allow that, and you can't allow that, and you have to draw the line, knowing that the space within which you can react is limited, because - and here's the flipside - the possession of a nuclear weapon in the hands of such an unpredictable regime is an unpredictable danger. it is in this situation that we must consider how we act. that is why, mrs ferrero-waldner, our group fully supports what you have said, namely that we must first distinguish between what a crazed dictator orders with his military and what is necessary on the other hand for humanitarian reasons. we must not punish the people for the madness of this dictator. that is why we support this measure. secondly, there is no alternative but to try to return to diplomacy. because you have to read into these actions of the dictator and try to see what opportunities there are in his behavior. are all possibilities of returning to the round of six talks closed? i don't think he did. the possibilities are not all closed. there are still ways of trying to get the north koreans back to the negotiating table. as difficult as it may seem, one thing is clear: it is no coincidence that at the very moment when the foreign minister of south korea is elected as the secretary general of the united nations, north korea is conducting a nuclear test. you have to read this and ask yourself whether the door was slammed or whether the knocking was meant to attract attention. i think the latter is the case. that is why we, as socialists in this parliament, and the international social democratic community, are of the opinion that we must try to continue the dialogue in spite of everything, because there is no alternative. i think, mr solana, that the reaction in the region has been moderate so far. the japanese government's response, as well as that of the other neighbouring countries, was, in my view, appropriate. what is not appropriate is a policy of arrogance. i would remind you once again that there was a time when the united states of america, under the leadership of president bill clinton, agreed on concrete energy procurement programmes with north korea. i would remind you once again that the so-called kedo programme in the 1990s was not intended to appease the dictator, but to enable that regime to be integrated wherever possible. the clinton administration has undermined all these efforts. i do not want to conceal or hide the fact that this too is considered by our group as a failure of the unilateral approach of the united states of america. this does not excuse the dictator in north korea, but it does indicate that international conflicts can only be resolved by the involvement of all the forces involved. finally, mr president, i would like to remind all those who are always suggesting that the problems of mankind should be solved by the development of nuclear energy that any nuclear power plant or enrichment plant that is built is an incalculable risk to the whole world in the hands of a criminal such as the dictator in north korea.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the north korean nuclear test is clearly to be condemned! this nuclear test will bring more instability to the region and, like any nuclear test, will endanger the population by radioactive fallout. it is particularly cynical that north korea is putting money into nuclear testing instead of the government improving the food situation of its people. it is good that the eu wants to continue to help in this area. the russian defense minister says that north korea's test makes it the ninth nuclear weapon state after the united states, russia, china, france, britain, israel, india and pakistan. any further escalation of the situation must now be avoided. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. no, we must now find a negotiated solution! the eu could play a role in this. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way. a central demand of the north korean government seems to be to negotiate directly with the united states. why should it not be possible for the us to negotiate directly bilaterally with north korea? the us administration needs to step out of its shadow here and negotiate directly with north korea. the call for sanctions only makes the situation worse. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not affected by the new situation. the experience of sanctions against the then new nuclear powers india and pakistan shows that sanctions are quickly exhausted. the nuclear nonproliferation treaty, which has always been contradictory, is now seriously threatened. in article 6 of the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons, the parties undertook to negotiate - i quote - nuclear disarmament and a treaty on general and complete disarmament under strict and effective control. that means all nuclear weapons must be dismantled. the european union has a responsibility for nuclear weapons. the nuclear weapons within the european union, mr solana, are not legal nuclear weapons, as your colleague annalisa giannella tried to make us understand in the committee on foreign affairs. no, the eu countries have also committed themselves to nuclear disarmament by supporting the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. we are faced here with a typical problem of western and european policy, namely double standards. i ask you: what nuclear power do you know of that abides by article 6 of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, which lays down the obligation to disarm? as far as the eu countries are concerned, i can say that the opposite is true. britain, france are not disarming, but are developing new, powerful nuclear weapons. nuclear weapons are always criminal weapons, and nuclear weapons tests are always wrong and dangerous! what's interesting is the different approach to north korea and iran. i want to make it clear that threats of military action always have the opposite effect. there are no good nuclear weapons, nuclear weapons must be dismantled everywhere, and all nuclear tests must be condemned and stopped!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. firstly, because it is obvious that a dangerous weapon is falling into the hands of a dictator who, as is well known, does not even care about the lives of his own citizens. so he's willing to take any risk, even the price of wiping out his own people. this makes risk assessment extremely difficult. the second point is that if this test really proves to be successful, and this is done in combination with missile technology, then there could also be a new race of weapons of mass destruction in this region. i do not know what discussion will be held in south korea, indonesia, the philippines, etc. in addition, there is a link between north korea and iran in the exchange of missile technology. we are witnessing a game of rabbit and vulture by the iranian government, which is becoming less and less convinced that all this is happening just to secure its own peaceful use of nuclear energy. no, there is more to this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this combination is particularly dangerous. that is why iran now has a special responsibility to finally come to terms and enter into a reasonable negotiation. mr salafranca asked what sanctions should be imposed. we need to put a serious dent in this man's life before it hits him. if it hits the population, he doesn't care. that is why sanctions must be respected and enforced which will harm him personally. mr. plowman, we shouldn't be looking for excuses now, who made mistakes where and when. the united states is not responsible for this being a crazy dictator. we should make sure that no additional alibis are delivered here. because here is a man who has defied all the rules of the international community. that's why we have to force him to come back to the sixers. if these six-party talks succeed, he can have complete security for his country. but this must be clear if we do not want to have a world of 30, 40 nuclear powers in 20 years that will destroy the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when the nuclear programme in north korea was launched in 1962, the slogan was, of course, 'civilian': 'atoms for peace, we don't want bombs, we don't want weapons'. soon after, suspicions were raised that this was not true, as in many other countries. when pyongyang admitted in 2003 after much back and forth that it was reworking for military purposes, it was actually clear that the so-called civilian nuclear programme was being misused for military purposes. in 2005, pyongyang announced that it had nuclear weapons, and then earlier this week, it tested them. i can only say at this point that all those who advocate the so-called spread of the civil use of nuclear energy are at the same time ensuring that its military use takes place. they keep opening their doors, including to the fact that the iraq war took place, on the grounds that there could be abuse. what was behind it? the european union had exported to iraq for civilian purposes. why does iran have technology that it claims is for civilian use? all those who represent europe and claim that new reactor technologies can be used to control this military use are lying. they know this and they should stop undermining the nuclear non-proliferation treaty by proliferating civilian technology.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to the statement by mr brok, who has alleged that i have made the united states responsible for the north korean nuclear test. this is a completely false assumption. the question raised by mrs napoletano, namely that there are governments which believe that they can protect themselves with nuclear weapons against attacks by, for example, the united states, but also increasingly by the european union, needs to be seriously discussed here. that is why mr brok's allegation is totally wrong. the threat of nuclear war exists from the united states, but also from jacques chirac. the question must therefore be raised seriously here, and mr brok's suggestion is wrong.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a brief comment, but it must be noted that those who strike must also take blows. mr. plowman, you have made an accusation! i have answered that accusation, and you should accept that. this is a political statement and not an allegation.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you, madam president-in-office of the council, and you, mr president of the commission, for the very comprehensive presentation of what you want to discuss at the informal summit. it is once again that we are full of hope before summits. we have heard wonderful speeches by mrs lehtomäki and mr barroso on innovation, immigration, energy policy, the russian partnership, darfur. the whole range of what we are concerned with has been presented in a total of about 40 minutes, and it is difficult for me now to be able to answer all the things in the short time required. if, after the summit, we have the same intensity of performance and decision density in the balance sheet you present, i would be very happy. i have a vague fear that we'll be doing what we've always done: we are good at describing our problems, but we find it a little harder to solve them. you are right, mr president of the commission, that investment in innovation is essential, not only here but in all member states, particularly in research and development of energy efficiency technology. one of the key issues in the coming years is whether we can meet the exponentially growing demand for energy in this world by achieving greater energy efficiency. incidentally, greater energy efficiency also means abandoning the waste economy, which means technological developments, investment in research that helps to ensure that what we can develop in products is designed to reduce energy consumption, not increase it. europe is the continent that must set a good example in this respect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, you are right, mr president of the commission, and you are right, madam president of the council: we must tackle the problem of immigration! but - and i thank you, mr barroso, for putting it so concretely - the way it is being tackled now is not going to solve the immigration problem. i do not want to repeat here what others have rightly said: sustainable development in the so-called third world is root-cause control in immigration policy. but the external border in southern europe, the external border in eastern europe is our common external border. in the schengen area, whoever has access to our territory is free to do so. we cannot go and say that everyone is doing it alone, or that we are doing it, if at all, at most in an intergovernmental framework, but we do not want to transfer responsibility to brussels! i say this to the address of my own government, you were there today, mr barroso. germany too must understand that this is not possible! even if you are a german minister of the interior, you have to draw that conclusion. another point to make about russia policy: the policy we are now defining with russia will be the basis for a cooperation agreement with russia which will be renewed. when we discuss the politkovskaya case today, emotions are always there. it's almost like you can touch it. mr saryuz-wolski, for example, who listens so attentively to my speech, is always particularly emotional when it comes to russia. that is why i say to him: what is there not to like about everything that is happening in russia? we certainly want russia to be, as you put it, a functioning democracy and market economy. but we have to be clear about one thing: whether we are deepening or developing russian democracy, russia as it stands today is an indispensable strategic partner for the european union. so i say, yes, we have to talk about democracy in this country. but we can't deal with russia from the chair of the university. we must understand that this country, in its energy partnership and above all its partnership in the context of conflict resolution worldwide - whether in iran or in the middle east, wherever it is, russia is undoubtedly needed - will try, with equal rights, to cooperate with us on an equal footing. and we must give russia the same level of tolerance that we give to any other partner. i therefore believe that dialogue on democracy is essential, but it must be based on realistic assessments. mr president of the commission, i am grateful to you for pointing out darfur. darfur once again demonstrates the need for the european union to build integration across religious, ethnic and national boundaries on the basis of its identity, which is a peacemaking identity, and to build peace with this concept of integration. it's an export product, and if you're bringing it into the world, that's welcome.
mr president, mr president of the commission, madam minister! i very much welcome the communication on innovation policy which the commission will be publishing next week. it is one of the first serious attempts to develop a european union strategy for europe and how we can position ourselves in the context of globalisation. that is why i believe that this will be the most important item on the agenda at the informal meeting in lahti. innovation is particularly prevalent in small and medium-sized enterprises. this fact is taken into account in this communication. for that we need - madam minister, you have mentioned this - european standards. there is still work to be done in many areas. we need to do this - and you have pointed this out, mr president of the commission - by increasing research and development spending. i am naturally pleased with the example of finland, but i must also point out that my region of baden-württemberg spends 3.6% of its gdp on research and development every year, which is still far ahead of the united states and japan. we also need more confidence - and this is the focus of this communication - in our own abilities. we need to talk more about what we can achieve together in europe - if we revamp our structures accordingly - also within globalisation. we have a great internal market which we must continue to develop and which also provides us with protection. we need more confidence in russia, in china. but we also need to know what reforms we need to undertake within the european union to remain competitive. the innovation strategy provides an excellent basis for this. there is talk of the need for more innovation in the area of public procurement law. some examples are given which are already being applied in my region. i believe that there are excellent opportunities to innovate and position europe better in the context of globalisation, and i also believe that this informal lahti summit should serve to develop a globalisation strategy for the european union, perhaps next year, so that we can convince citizens that we as europe have a chance in a globalised world.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, negotiations on the transfer of passenger data to the united states were concluded last week. the negotiating result avoided a no-deal situation between the eu and the us, which is very important. the presidency has received yesterday's letter from sophia in 't veld, rapporteur for the european parliament's pnr report, and we will return to the questions raised in it in more detail in writing as soon as possible. the negotiations resulted in the conclusion of a new interim pnr agreement. it is intended to replace the previous agreement of 2004, which was annulled by the ec court of justice in a judgment delivered last may. the negotiations were difficult, as the repeal of the previous agreement threatened to drive the eu and the us into a no-deal situation altogether. despite the difficulties, the negotiating mandate given by the council in june 2006 was upheld. the new contractual arrangement ensures both a level of protection of personal data equivalent to that of the previous agreement and the continuity of transatlantic air traffic. the arrangement therefore allows for the continued transfer of passenger data to the us authorities while ensuring an adequate level of data protection in the processing of the data, in line with the commitments previously made by the us customs and border protection. the committee of permanent representatives closely followed the progress of the negotiations and discussed the outcome and content of the negotiations as early as 6 october. coreper expressed its support for the initialling of the negotiating text. the outcome of the consultations was reported to the ministers of justice at the justice and home affairs council, which began immediately after coreper. the provisional agreement resulting from the negotiations shall apply from the date of its signature. the eu's signature of the agreement will be discussed by coreper tomorrow and the aim is for the council to give the signature powers as soon as possible. the interim agreement will run until july 2007. during this period, the parties are to agree on a more permanent arrangement for the transfer of pnr data. the aim is to start these negotiations as soon as possible. the agreement was reached after tough negotiations. the us wish in the negotiations was to change the previous arrangement to better reflect the changed operating environment. the main challenge of the negotiations was to respond to the changes in us legislation and the organisation of government since 2004, while maintaining the principles of european data protection standards. in addition to the actual text of the agreement, the negotiations also covered a letter from the us negotiators to the commission and the presidency on the interpretation of the commitments on the use of pnr data. the eu will take note of the letter, but it will not become part of the agreement. the outcome of the negotiations has been a success for a number of reasons. first, the purpose of the tfa is to ensure the safety of air passengers. this is of the utmost importance. secondly, i would like to emphasize that the commitments previously made by the us administration regarding the use of pnr data will continue to apply. the aim is to guarantee the same level of protection for citizens' pnr data as under the previous system. the agreement includes a provision that the us department of homeland security (dhs) is considered to provide adequate protection for pnr data transferred from the eu. this is based on the fact that dhs continues to comply with the commitments made in 2004. the new agreement increases the number of authorities with electronic access to pnr data, due to the reorganisation of the us administration. however, these authorities are defined in the contract. thirdly, i am pleased that the new agreement will also include the same 34 fields of pnr data as in the previous arrangement. fourthly, the new agreement will ensure legal certainty for citizens and the continuation of transatlantic flights. the new agreement will also ensure the operational conditions for airlines. we have other good news for the airlines. in the context of these negotiations, the united states has committed to allowing the testing of systems whereby airlines can themselves store pnr data in us authorities' databases to begin as early as the middle of this year. this has been a very important goal for us. negotiations on a new, more permanent pnr system to replace the interim agreement reached in july 2007 will be launched in the near future. we have also agreed that the question of the retention and destruction of data will be settled only in the context of these negotiations on the pnr system. so we'll get back to that very soon. i am sorry, mr president, that i cannot be present for this debate because i have to leave parliament at 6.20 p.m. as previously agreed and unfortunately the plane will not wait more than a minute.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all i can fully agree with the positive assessment made by the presidency of the validity of this agreement, which has a limited duration until july 2007 but which has the advantage of ensuring legal continuity in a highly sensitive area and allows airlines to ensure proper processing of personal data of citizens travelling to and from the united states of america without interruption of air traffic. this agreement is part of a larger commitment. i can say without any doubt that during the extremely complex negotiations that have taken place, both the european institutions, the presidency and the commission, and the united states have confirmed their willingness to start joint work immediately, which has a wider scope and therefore includes the reaffirmation of a common will, of the european union and the united states, to work together towards a definitive agreement - the agreement that will replace this temporary agreement, that is to say the one that will come into force after august 2007 - and to tackle together the wider field of common cooperation against terrorism, together with the protection of the individual rights of individuals. it is a much broader political perspective in which, as i have said on many other occasions, i believe that the involvement of the european parliament is politically necessary, even if the procedures will necessarily fall within the so-called 'third pillar' following the decision of the court of justice. it is clear that the content of this agreement must be studied in depth: i know that many honourable members have studied it carefully. i should like to make a few brief remarks: firstly, this agreement does not allow for the exchange of more data. it allows for the transmission of data to additional agencies, in addition to the border protection authority and the customs authority, in full compliance with comparable rules on the protection of personal data. this is not the result of a change in the agreement because, as you know very well, we have clarified the meaning of the undertakings. after 2004, there was a change in the structure of the agencies as a result of domestic us legislation. before that, at the beginning of 2004, there were only the customs agency and the border protection agency. today, for example, we have a new interlocutor, namely the department of homeland security, which we could not, at least in the interpretation of the undertakings, disregard. it also includes the agencies mentioned above, so it was impossible not to mention them. what is the characteristic of this interpretation? on the one hand, the existence of different agencies is acknowledged, on the other hand, it is established that the customs and border protection agency retains the same function as before, being the direct recipient of the data transfer. the other agencies can obtain from this first agency, on a case-by-case basis, the data they need. so there is no direct access to data by other agencies in the first place but a transmission to other agencies on the basis of a request. what is the request that justifies the transmission? as has already been said, this is a case-by-case request. we have specified that the concept of 'case by case' means either the indication of a concrete threat or the indication of a flight or a specific flight or a flight route, for which there is an indication justifying the request for data. this request for data is justified only, as it was before again nothing has changed for reasons of anti-terrorist investigation. we have therefore specified that us agencies with investigative tasks other than counter-terrorism investigations cannot have access, even on the basis of an indirect request. the other important element in my view is the impossibility of direct access and the change in the way data is accessed. many honourable members have often pointed out in the past the malfunctioning or the lack of guarantees of the so-called 'pull' system, that is to say the system which allows information to be extracted directly from databases. as a result, we have asked for and obtained that the system be changed and replaced, as has been expressly requested on numerous occasions by authoritative members of parliament, by the 'push' system. push means, as the word clearly says, that data is not extracted but is provided on demand. it was agreed that the new mechanism, as we wrote in the accompanying letter from the united states, will be operational no later than december this year, that is to say, within a month and a half at the latest. the mechanism will first be tested to see if it works, but in any case it will be operational - i repeat - at the end of this year. a specific obligation was also reiterated, namely to respect - recalling in this connection article 6 (2) of the treaty on european union - the fundamental right of individuals to the processing of personal data. we have inserted a reference to article 6 of the treaty on european union itself, replacing the reference to a data protection directive, because the court of justice had ruled that, in matters of security, that directive is not directly applicable. an important european legislative reference would therefore have been lost. we have replaced it with a more general - and in my view even more binding - reference to article 6 of the eu treaty, which refers to the fundamental rights of individuals. in conclusion, the commitment of the american authorities is to continue to guarantee, also by the department of homeland security, an adequate level of protection of the data processed and therefore, of course, the possibility of reviewing the application of this agreement, as, moreover, already established in the agreement previously in force. the last aspect concerns the confirmation of the data retention period, a subject which has not been touched upon. it's true. there was a request to retain data for a longer period than the agreement in force provided for or was in force. the request was not granted, firstly because the agreement expires in july 2007 and secondly because we considered that a subject as sensitive as the retention period could be the subject of subsequent negotiations. i can assure you that the commission intends to start these negotiations in january 2007 so that by the end of july 2007 they will be sufficiently mature to reach a final agreement.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's right to vote is respected. the interim agreement now concluded, however, remains largely unchanged in terms of the nature and scope of the information. the united states no longer has automatic access to the data, but must instead ask the airlines. this is a success of the negotiations, for which i would like to thank mr frattini in particular. however, the agreement, which was annulled by the ecj, clearly stipulated that customs and border authorities could only share this data in individual cases. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative measures to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. i don't think the passenger feels that this increases his security risk. the opposite is more likely. but my group, the epp-ed, feels very strongly that some parts of this house have not done us all a good service by taking the case to the ecj. because we have to say one thing today: the new agreement does not provide for any higher level of data protection than the old agreement. i therefore call for our continued commitment to our high european data protection standards, including in the case of passenger data sharing. this should be done by the european parliament and the commission influencing the future negotiations. but we must also say: a sovereign state like the united states will continue to claim the right to set rules on who can enter its country and under what conditions.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the woman in the field is right. the pnr agreement concluded last week is not a cause for celebration. the fact that there is an agreement at all has avoided legal uncertainty. but the substance of the matter is still unresolved. the new agreement is even lagging behind the previous one. the european union has once again fallen on its knees before washington. how else can we assess the transfer of pnr data directly to the us department of homeland security? the fact that this all-powerful us authority can now routinely pass on the data of european air passengers to any us agency involved in counter-terrorism, including the cia, is the real scandal. the cia is not a blank slate. i would just like to remind you that this house has set up a special committee because the cia, in the course of its so-called counter-terrorism policy, has simply kidnapped and tortured people from europe, such as the german citizen khaled el masri. in view of this, are we to believe that this notorious intelligence service is not doing what it wants with the passenger data of our citizens? contrary to parliament's demands, eu citizens will not even have the same legal protection under the new agreement as american air passengers. they will not have equivalent legal remedies to defend themselves against the processing of incorrect data or against the misuse of their data. why has it not been possible to make the rules applicable to us citizens applicable to eu citizens, as for example is provided for in the ec-canada agreement? the ec citizens are not sufficiently protected in their right to information self-determination under the pnr convention, and this is unacceptable to my group. the only bright spot might be the planned switch from the pull to the push system, but this too is relative. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so what has kept the eu from insisting that the us immediately fulfill its long-standing commitment to us?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i must admit that i see things quite differently from my predecessor. but michael cashman and i have a friendly relationship of differing opinions, and that actually works quite well. nevertheless, i find it very regrettable that the council is no longer here, because the council's speech clearly shows that it was not present at the negotiations and does not know what is in this agreement. we cannot say that there is a surplus in data protection law if the same thing has been adopted in the area of data protection as was previously included, namely zero, and double zero remains zero. we still don't know where the data that is being queried will end up. we don't know which authority in the united states has access to it, so where it's ultimately stored, let alone where it's being transmitted. we don't know when they're gonna be erased. there is no right for european citizens to ask where this data is. there is no right to correct the data. in this respect, it is not true that we have achieved substantially more. i do not blame you personally, commissioner, because i know the pressure the united states has exerted, but i would like to see people not succumbing to that pressure and taking up what my colleague jean-marie cavada said and saying: if you want data from us, give us yours. who is to say that there can be no threat to the european union from the united states? who says that we do not have the right to know who is entering the european union? in such a case, you must be able to return the favor by the favor, rather than simply giving in to pressure.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on 23 january 2006, the commission presented a communication on a community action plan for the protection and welfare of animals 2006-2010. the report i drew up as parliament's rapporteur on this communication was adopted unanimously by the committee on agriculture on 12 september. the aim of the action plan is to bring together and structure in a uniform way the community's activities, which have hitherto been divided between different commission services, councils and policy areas. animal welfare is an extremely sensitive emotional and political issue. in our civil society, animal welfare must be taken for granted, according to the specific needs and requirements of the animals. on this basis, it is important to me as rapporteur that we establish a uniform level of animal welfare in the european union. the commission has repeatedly stressed that our european union is already a model for the world in terms of animal welfare, which is already high and will be even higher in the future. the committee has followed me by a large majority in stressing the need for accurate impact assessments for all legislative animal welfare measures. and it is only consistent to demand the high animal welfare standards in negotiations with the wto and bilateral treaties. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare rules are respected. the progress made must also be taken into account. the animals in question are particularly dear to many of my colleagues and to many of the people who have written to me. however, animal welfare efforts in the field of scientific research have been considerably improved in recent years. a variety of alternatives to animal testing have been developed to bring the 3-r principle to life. although there is still a lot to be done here, i think we are moving in the right direction. the report, based on further research, supports efforts to replace animal testing with alternative methods. we therefore consistently call for the seventh framework programme to be made available. scientifically sound animal welfare indicators are the most reliable basis for the development of workable animal welfare. this basic report covering the period 2006-2010 is not intended to describe specific individual measures. we do not support amendments calling for the application of voluntary national animal welfare standards. the report urges the correct application and enforcement of existing animal welfare rules, for example in the field of animal transport. we welcome the proposed ban on the import of cat and dog fur and call for decisive action to restrict trade in seal products. it was stressed that the candidate countries urgently needed to adapt their legislation. and we strongly support a simple and binding eu animal welfare label. there are 14 amendments, we are in favour of amendments nos 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 12, 14 and we are against amendment no 1, against amendment no 9, amendment no 10 and amendment no 13. we have asked for separate votes on paragraph 5, paragraph 7a, paragraph 29, paragraph 54 and paragraph 71. commissioner, commissioner kyprianou is in brazil at the moment and i am sure he will speak positively about european animal welfare standards. i hope he will also talk about the deficiencies repeatedly identified by the european food and veterinary office in agricultural products from brazil imported into the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the distortions of competition. the animal welfare standards required in europe must also have a positive impact on our competitiveness. i thank you very much and i thank all the colleagues for the good cooperation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not respect, mrs. jeggle, for your work. it was not easy, and there are still some inconsistencies to be noted, but the overall line is right, the inconsistencies are not your fault. i agree with you that we must set an example to the world with high animal welfare standards. this is particularly true because in recent years we have not been particularly well regarded as a cultural area. i am thinking of bse, of dioxin, of the deaths caused by foot-and-mouth disease, of the millions of animals that were destroyed, and of the piles of wood that burned - that was not a credit to us in the world. that's why it's important that we find another line here. there is also a selling point to be taken into account when dealing directly with consumers: if you do not want a chicken in a cage, you can tell them whatever you want. he wants a free country, the other one he doesn't like when he thinks of the chicken. so while we must take a market orientation approach to animal welfare, we must also see that animal welfare has costs. if we are operating in an anonymous market - and this is generally the case with imports from third countries - then we must ensure that our standards are not undermined by qualified external protection, because this is reflected in the price. the same, mrs jeggle, of course, applies within europe. if we do not ensure that animal welfare standards are applied in production, then there will be a distortion of competition within europe as well, and we must therefore consider including animal welfare in cross compliance, so that not only certain penalties are imposed, but also financial losses, for example by deducting premiums, and incentives for farms to comply with animal welfare standards.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. everything that man does to animals comes back to man. pythagoras knew that two and a half thousand years ago. when i look at the interplay between animal welfare, animal health, sustainability, environmental and food safety, that's still true today. animal welfare is now, thank god, a very important part of our society. the public's desire for ethical and socially safe products is increasing, and we have recently been increasingly concerned with sensitive issues such as animal welfare during breeding, transport or slaughter. i welcome the action plan for the protection and welfare of animals and i congratulate mrs jeggle on her report, which calls for the necessary. we need measures to inform the public better about modern animal welfare techniques and practices. we need to improve marketing, labelling and communication strategies to inform consumers and thereby help them make their purchasing decisions. a simple and precise european animal welfare label could help harmonise the currently differing animal welfare labelling systems and set minimum standards for animal welfare across the eu and hopefully soon beyond our borders. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare policy is properly implemented. why has the community's animal welfare policy so far been limited to farm animals? aren't dogs and cats worth protecting just because we don't eat them? that question seems permissible. the questions are also allowed: are pets always kept in a species-appropriate manner? the bird in the cage, the snakes or reptiles in city apartments? everything we've heard and everything there is. that is why this view is included in the report. we've been working to reduce the use of animals in research, science and product approval. animal experiments may only be carried out there if there are no alternative options.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in september last year, the commission presented a report on the freelance services sector, entitled 'room for far-reaching reform', which was an extension of the report it had already produced in 2004 on competition in the freelance services sector. parliament has expressed its views on this subject in accordance with the 2001 and 2003 reports. in march this year the legal affairs committee and parliament once again took a position on the specific sector of legal professions. what all the discussions in the public, among economists as well as between parliament and the commission have in common is a great phenomenon: all the participants are extremely opinionated and few in number. the figures underlying the mostly sectoral or national studies are largely from the early 1990s; the most recent survey was carried out in early 2001. the common feature of all of them is that they are either sectoral or national in nature, or they are based on empirical evidence which is so far back that it is difficult to generalize. the economic importance of services cannot be overestimated. 8% of european gross national product is accounted for by business services, of which at least one third can be attributed to the provision of freelance services. in this respect, it is, of course, perfectly right - and i think parliament welcomes this - to ask, in the context of the lisbon agenda, what contribution this sector can make to growth and employment in europe. we felt it was important not only to welcome the lisbon agenda in sunday speeches but also to address the question in practice: what contribution can liberalisation make to growth? the commission has done a good job of systematising a debate which has been very - i would say - wild. in essence, the commission has made the following economic consideration: it first examines six occupational groups: lawyers, notaries, engineers, architects, pharmacists and accountants. it defines five restrictions on competition: fixed prices, price recommendations, competition rules, advertising rules and the whole range of conditions for access, forms of company or merger possibilities. it has compared this with four major groups of consumers - public budgets, large enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises and private consumers - and has then admitted that there are certain special arrangements here due to asymmetries: in the field of market transparency, as regards external effects, or in the question of the extent to which a public good is provided here. we welcome this systematization, it is necessary for the course of the discussions, it makes sense that parliament should take a position on this debate at this time. we have tried to give some support, but also to contribute to the differentiation of this debate. first of all, there is a broad consensus on the issue of subsidiarity. the european community will have the difficult task of coordinating its action with the member states. secondly, we have called for - and i think this is very important, also as a consequence of the debate on the services directive - that the objectives of liberalisation be clearly stated and also empirically substantiated. what growth can be expected from what liberalisations? what employment effects are expected? it is also important to have a clear statement of the figures, otherwise the member states will not be able to accept it. we have stated that we see a parity of self-government compared to state regulation. we said we think we need to differentiate the systematics. for example, public budgets must be differentiated in our view, because it is a difference whether a small municipality issues a call for tenders or whether a national government issues a call for tenders for professional services. we have said that while we recognize the geographical and traditional features, we see them as special arrangements which must not be allowed to continue, that the possibilities for liberalization and growth in these areas must not be constantly questioned. we have made it quite clear that we regard special arrangements for mergers and promotions as a matter of concern. we have said that we want to differentiate clearly certain restrictions of competition according to consumer groups. and we have said recently that, in the field of voluntary work in particular, we very much welcome the voluntary code of conduct for the voluntary service sector. the point is that we want to tell the commission that we welcome these considerations. but we also want to make it clear that we need to systematize and further differentiate in these areas. only then will we achieve the necessary acceptance in the nation states.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i think it is right that the european union should seek good and close relations with the most diverse regions of the world and, of course, with mercosur. i think it is wrong, however, for the commission to try to impose through such regional agreements, through the back door, what was rejected by the majority of countries in the wto negotiations, namely the liberalization of international trade between partners with very different economic and social conditions without taking account of these different situations in the countries. the eu-latin america summit in vienna and the alternative enlazando alternativas summit last may provided an opportunity to better understand the aspirations of the new voices in latin america and to create a more balanced relationship in the interests of the well-being of the entire population of both regions and not just for the benefit of the economy. the commission has just published a communication on its strategy for trade policy, which places even greater emphasis on economic liberalization. the commissioner, mr mandelson, once again stressed in the debate yesterday that he shares this basic position. i do not want to give a mandate to such a policy. the report contains some points which i consider to be very important, such as the emphasis on the principles of partial reciprocity and differential treatment according to the level of development. overall, however, the report goes beyond the well-known calls for liberalization, for example by advocating the investment sector as a subject of a chapter in the eu-mercosur agreement. but this has been completely removed from the negotiating catalogue of the doha development round as a result of international protests. my group supports a fair association agreement, but does not support the move towards a free trade area between the european union and mercosur.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would remind you once again that the background to the debate we are having here in parliament today is a council decision of december 2004. this is why we are dealing with the fundamental rights agency today. the council cannot now back door-pass the debate on the fundamental rights agency and pretend that some parliamentarians who have gone wild want to create a european bureaucracy here in the european parliament and that this has nothing to do with what concerns our citizens in the european union. it is also important to emphasise that parliament is debating the fundamental rights agency in dialogue with the commission and the council. we have endeavoured to ensure that the mandate of the agency is clearly defined. i would like to emphasize once again what we are talking about. no one in this house wants a duplication of work structures. we all agreed in a compromise that the mandate of the agency should focus on the protection of fundamental rights in member states, in countries with candidate status and, finally, in countries with which we have stabilisation and association agreements. the participation of the member states shall be adequately regulated. i would like to emphasize this point again. the interests of the council of europe are also duly taken into account in the proposal we are preparing. finally, i would also like to take this opportunity to thank mrs gál and mrs kovács once again for the work they have done. now it's the council's turn to move.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am speaking on behalf of the committee on budgets. that always means talking about the finances and not so much the content. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it will be a new agency from 2007 onwards - if it is adopted in the timely manner we envisage - similar to the chemicals agency or the institute for gender equality. but we all know that in the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the european commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management of 17 may this year, the council and parliament agreed in paragraph 47 that the council and parliament must deal with this and then agree on how the new agencies are to be financed. the committee on budgets has already asked the council to start negotiations with us before the summer break in july this year. we have done this repeatedly in the committee on budgets. so far, the council has not reached us. so now, in its budgetary deliberations for the next financial year, the committee on budgets has changed the budget line which the commission had headed 'human rights agency' back to the budget line 'european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia' and has created a new budget line which will then be marked 'for remembrance'. we hope that we will soon have a legal basis and that we can then reach an agreement with the council on how the new agency will be financed.
in writing. the varela suanzes-carpegna report reads like the wish list of the largest european companies and the mercosur agribusiness. the aim is to establish as soon as possible an eu-mercosur free trade area. the respect of human rights and the impact on large sections of the population in both regions are irrelevant. the report highlights the costs of not concluding the agreement, but does not mention the social costs of an eu-mercosur free trade area. the free trade agreements of recent decades have shown that the liberalisation of trade relations laid down in the agreements does not contribute to an increase in prosperity. small producers are among the first to lose out on free trade agreements, because they only grant access to the european market for some agricultural products. in the areas of public procurement, services and investment rules, the eu is taking an aggressive stance, for example by calling for equal access to mercosur governments' public procurement contracts in the water, transport and energy sectors. it is becoming clear that the eu does not want to make human rights and democracy issues central to trade agreements with latin america. the priority is instead economic free trade, which would further harm the poorer sections of the population. instead of launching a new round of negotiations for the conclusion of the eu-mercosur agreement, the eu should launch an inquiry into the social and economic consequences of liberalisations in latin america.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to inform the house that the ethiopian authorities expelled two diplomats from the eu delegation last thursday. it is linked to the arrest of an ethiopian employee of the eu delegation, yalemzewd bekele, who is accused by the authorities of opposition activities and who had therefore tried to leave for kenya. glenys kinnock and i met with both the diplomats and yalemzewd bekele in addis ababa just two weeks ago. she's being held in moyale prison. we have grave concerns about her treatment. the un special rapporteur on torture is also working on the case. i urge the commission to exercise its duty of care as an employer and to provide ms bekele with legal counsel. the troika should also travel from addis ababa to moyale to ensure the physical safety of mrs bekele and to ask the ethiopian authorities for clarification on the allegations they have made against mrs bekele. our president should also write a letter to his colleagues.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw attention to an incident between polish border authorities and a german cruise ship that occurred a few days ago. when the german cruise ship adler dania entered the polish port of swinemünde, three plainclothes polish customs officials, without any written credentials, attempted to confiscate the cruise ship's entire liquor inventory. the captain then turned and fled back to germany, being pursued by a speedboat of the polish border guard. this speedboat also fired signals at the german cruiser. this incident is unbelievable! unfortunately, this is not an isolated case, as i know from letters from the people concerned. there are always problems at the internal european borders with several new member states and also with other neighbouring countries. for example, fees are arbitrarily levied and attempts are made to force those who wish to enter the country to pay them. otherwise, there's no way in. i demand that action be taken against this!
the next item is the joint debate on the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment, operation and use of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii) (com (2005) 0236 - c6-0174/2005 - 2005/0106 (cod)) (a6-0355/2006), the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the establishment, operation and use of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii) (com (2005) 0302 - c6-0130/2005 - 2005/0310 (cns)) (a6-0353/2006) and the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a second generation schengen information system (sis ii) (com (2005) 0236 - c6-04-0355/2005 - c6-06-0612/2005), on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the access to the information of the european parliament and of the council on the european parliament's services responsible for the second generation of schengen information system (sis ii) (com (2005) (com (2005) 0106-04-06-045)).
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the sis ii is necessary, in particular, to enable the citizens of the new member states to exercise their right to free movement within the union fully. nevertheless, my group will vote against the bills. we have made this decision for two main reasons. the first is data protection. the sis ii is not just about the free movement of persons, but also and above all about police and judicial cooperation and a system of tracing. however, the current data protection provisions under the third pillar are notoriously inadequate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. parliament recently voted unanimously in favour of it. but what is the council doing? that is where the framework decision is stuck. the council is still, as we hear, expressing serious reservations. in plain english, this means: we do not know at this stage when this framework decision will come into force, nor to what extent the council will change its content. however, in terms of citizens' rights, adequate data protection must be ensured before such a large database is created. secondly, the inclusion of biometric data is problematic in several ways. firstly, there is no impact assessment on the question of the use of biometric data in such a large system. secondly, the conditions for recording this data are not sufficiently regulated. in addition, my group cannot accept that the question of when biometric data may be used as a primary search criterion should not be decided by a joint decision of parliament. in conclusion, i would like to thank my rapporteur, mr coelho, for his excellent cooperation. i would like to stress that the council has not been able to reach a decision on the matter, and i would like to stress that the council has not been able to reach a decision on the matter. it is not possible that, after the conclusion of the trilogue, new demands can simply be made and parliament put a gun to its chest. this is all the more true when one knows the content of the blackmail attempt originating in berlin. the police, yes, but, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, the secret services have no place in sis ii. they have a life of their own - we have seen this too often - and in view of this we should not open the doors to sis ii any further.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, i must congratulate the rapporteur on this report. i agree with the general lines of his remarks, first of all as regards access to employment. i believe that the role of women can be one of the contributions to the achievement in europe of a truly balanced and comprehensive development and employment policy. as you know, this is one of the objectives of the lisbon strategy and is above all a way of ensuring that women are fully integrated into society and have a truly independent life, which is why i fully share the centrality of the issue of work. i also share the centrality of the issue of integration for immigrant women, first and foremost with regard to language learning. learning the language of the country where you live must be a fundamental element for the integration of all: men, women, youth and children. in particular, we see a delay in ensuring that women have real access to the language spoken in the host country, and this is a factor that slows down and makes integration difficult. as the rapporteur rightly points out, the issue of integration is linked to the indispensable intercultural and interreligious dialogue. i believe that the european union is based on absolute values of respect for the dignity of every woman and man, and that it is therefore impossible to accept, under any circumstances, the mortification of the dignity of the human being, in this case the dignity of women, which is the exact opposite of symbols of integration. i look with concern at the hypotheses where, for example, women are forced to wear symbols of submission to their feminine status, such as the veil that covers the entire face and does not allow them to be seen. these are symbols which are unfortunately incompatible with integration and suggest a subjugation of women. i also find it absurd that in some european countries there is a so-called honour crime, which i would rather call 'crime of dishonor', and i will certainly be even more active in promoting initiatives to abolish this crime which, in my view, must be aggravated and not mitigated, because it has, for reasons of this kind, affected absolute values such as life, physical integrity and the dignity of persons. in the context of the implementation of the european directive on family reunification, we intend to pay particular attention to the fight against forced marriages. that's another topic i'll be working on. you know that this is a directive which is binding on the member states. in its national implementation i shall pay particular attention to the forms of violence within the family, such as forced marriages and polygamous marriages, which are not permitted by the laws of the european union and the member states, and to the guarantees for women in the event of separation or divorce, so that they cannot be identified as second-class citizens when the marriage breaks down. in the context of the asylum and refugee directives, i think one point should be stressed. for the first time, discrimination based on the status of women must be considered as a sufficient reason for refugee status. i believe that the fact of being subject to domestic violence and female genital mutilation, or of being at risk of being subject to forced marriage, alone justifies the recognition of refugee status for women who show that they are exposed to these risks. finally, i would like to point out to the rapporteur, once again with sincerity, an aspect on which i have doubts, namely the full equalization of the situation of illegal immigrant women with that of legal immigrant women. i believe that there is a realm in which absolute rights must be guaranteed to all, regardless of status. it is obvious that the right to health care, emergency medical treatment and a minimum subsistence level cannot be denied simply because one is living illegally for a certain period, perhaps while waiting to be repatriated. there is certainly a common basis of rights, but i do not think we should go further than confusing the two plans. there's an illegal immigration condition that has rules and procedures. legal immigration status is different. to equate the two totally sends a dangerous message and this is obviously what we are working on, for a harmonious european policy on both illegal and legal immigration.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this report by mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou - i thank you for it - is a powerful windfall for women's rights, and in particular for the rights of migrant women. it's about time! for too long, we have embraced a cultural relativism towards immigrant women. i am pleased that many of our initiatives have been taken up, such as mandatory reporting of genital mutilation or long overdue sanctions or punishments for forced marriage. i hope we can also ensure that there are compulsory language courses for migrant women, because only then can they exercise their rights. language is also an important component of integration. we must put an end to the fact that in europe girls from migrant families are not obliged to take sexuality or physical education classes, that some of them are even taken out of school or are denied access to school. we should raise our voices here, loud and clear! it is also very important for us that women receive a legal status that is not tied to that of their husband. mr frattini, i want to speak to you personally. i have recently asked in a written question whether you share my concern that there are a number of court decisions in various member states which support polygamy and which also promise the corresponding aid. i was shocked to learn from a commissioner responsible for justice that polygamy was for the protection of women. in europe bigamy is prohibited and i would like to hear your answer, because i cannot imagine that, with your knowledge, it is said that polygamy is for the protection of women, whereas certain forms of same-sex partnerships are prohibited.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank mrs rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou for her comprehensive report. we in the gue/ngl group fully support this report. it is an enrichment of the information available on the rights of migrant women in the european union. given that the proportion of female migrants is now 54%, it is completely incomprehensible and shocking how ignorant european governments are of this fact and how little attention is paid to the specific needs of female migrants. i am particularly concerned at this point to draw attention to the glaring shortcomings of the member states' integration policies. migrant women are expected to integrate quietly and easily into the system, not making demands and bringing the greatest possible benefit to the national labour market. when countries turn a blind eye to the challenges posed by migrants for decades, and then blame the failure of integration on migrants, that is just another sign of ignorance and political blindness to me. i call for gender-specific migration management that consistently considers and promotes the rights of migrant women to education, health, security and independence. otherwise we risk a further increase in trafficking in women, the exploitation of domestic workers, the social isolation of women and domestic violence.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make only a brief comment after having heard many speeches which i share. first of all, mr breyer, i want to say that i have always considered and will always consider polygamous marriage to be against the law and a serious violation of women's right to choose freely. i can therefore confirm that i will continue to move in this direction. some of the speakers - mr angelilli and mr morgantini - raised the subject of the communication. i believe that - if i may say so - giving a voice to immigrant women in a more direct and stronger way can be of great help, also in developing stronger european defence policies. 'giving a voice' means giving these people effective means to speak and be heard. if not, there is a risk -- let me say this -- that these women's voices are also subject to a filter, which is operated by the very community within which they reside. in many european countries there are known cases of personal segregation and subjugation of immigrant women. it is one of the areas in which i receive the least number of individual complaints. when compared to other areas of protection of fundamental rights of individuals, individual violence against women in immigrant communities is the area for which the least number of specific case reports are received. why would you do that? because there is a fear of reporting such cases, because they are not reported, because women themselves are subject to violence in order not to reveal the abuses they suffer within the free and democratic territory of the member states. communication is therefore an absolutely central theme. finally, to help this integration effort, i would like to point out that in the spring of 2007 i will publish a european integration handbook, which will be available in all the languages spoken in the countries of the european union, in which the cases of successful integration in the city, the provinces and the regions where they have been detected will be described. as millions of copies of this practical manual are distributed, we will share positive examples so that they can be imitated. these are examples from the world of local authorities. i can tell you that so far the area in which i have the least information is precisely the integration of immigrant women. i am therefore addressing you so that in the coming months i can receive concrete examples, positive and also negative, on which to speak. otherwise we will continue to make important declarations of principle without translating them into concrete action, which is what i intend to do.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank mr casaca for a very good, interesting and useful report. it takes account of direct management, which is mainly the responsibility of the commission, and shared management, which the commission shares with the member states. regarding recoveries in direct management, the commission thanks the rapporteur for his support in the current revision of financial regulation which we have already placed on the table, in particular the proposals aiming to establish a uniform time limit of five years, and of course the level of privilege for community entitlement to fiscal claims in national law which, to our regret, the council was reluctant to support. regarding recoveries in shared management, the commission agrees with the emphasis placed on the responsibility of the member states, since this accounts for the biggest part of community expenditure. the commission shares the rapporteur’s analysis concerning the low level of recoveries by some member states. in one particular case, the sum involved is eur 95 million. however, i would like to mention that this commission has laid special emphasis on recovery. between 2003 and 2006, the commission was able to reduce recovery amounts from eur 553 million to only eur 160 million by september this year. the specific case of the 95 million is the subject of a criminal investigation in the court of one member state and another is involved in the problem. so in fact less than eur 100 million have to be recovered in the near future, and eur 95 million after the investigation has been completed. we are very satisfied with the report as a whole. we are working with parliament, especially the rapporteur on the financial regulation. we are cooperating closely with the committee on budgets on that. we shall give a proper response to your report and your recommendations in writing.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i should like to thank the rapporteur for a very interesting and important report, because there are still many problems with the recovery of community debts, particularly at the level of the member states, and it is extremely regrettable that the council is absent today. commissioner, we are aware that things are going better since you took up the matter, but i think that we will have to work very intensively over the next few months on individual steps to improve. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. here we have 70% of old claims from 1971 to 2002. this is a 3.1 billion euro deal. 70% of them have not yet been repatriated. the current situation is rather bizarre: the overall drawdown rate is less than one fifth of the eur 6 billion available in 2002. the president of the court of auditors - mr president, i am actually protesting against the date of this meeting because we are being presented with a very important report in the committee on budgetary control - has just said that recovery is becoming increasingly slow and that the sanctions are totally inadequate. the problem is with the member states, and i think we are fighting on one side here. the commissioner, we will certainly bring up the question of the balance between tax and recovery claims in the discussions on the budgetary procedure. it's very important to us. another important thing is to give greater support to the work of the local inspectors, especially those inspectors who are involved in the national administrations. they are in danger of being punished by their own administration for their mistakes and therefore need our special protection. the commission also has another problem: until recently it was impossible to find out the current level of debt. i hope that with the modernisation of accounting, there will be a better development here. all in all, we'll make sure that this topic stays relevant.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i welcome the report by mr casaca. as a member of the committee on regional development, i must express my deep concern at the dramatic increase in fraud and in breaches of the rules. the volume of damage from structural measures increased from eur 480 million in 2003 to eur 694 million in 2004. in the last year under review, 2004, over 70% of the funds incorrectly allocated came from the structural policy area. we have to add a grey area. if we are not able to recover unduly paid funds in the way described in the owninitiative report, it will cast the union in a bad light. the total expenditure of some 3 billion euros is not a small sum! but it is not just the financial damage to the union. if the reimbursement of these funds does not work sufficiently well, this is also an invitation to abuse of the funds. whether fraud is intentional or mistaken, the recovery of funds wrongly paid must be smooth! even if this procedure seems disproportionate in individual cases, it must be enforced by the member states. i therefore call on the member states to take stronger action and to coordinate their prosecutorial services accordingly. i would also ask the member states to involve the european anti-fraud office olaf more closely in the procedures. i call on the commission to make more public its denunciation of the misuse of funds. europe needs transparency! european funding needs transparency! and if funds are being used here against their original purpose, then we must stop that. we need more publicity for that. i thank the rapporteur for his contribution.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. my comments relate to the implementing provisions of the transparency directive. as so-called level 2 measures, they are only subject to limited influence by the european parliament. it is therefore all the more important that the committee on economic and monetary affairs has adopted without opposition a draft report on the basis of which the house will now adopt its own resolution! the committee on budgets has already succeeded in making a number of key demands to the commission in the run-up to tomorrow's vote. firstly, market makers should not be forced to put their financial instruments which they hold for market making activities in a separate account. the authority may, however, require a separate account if the market maker is not able to identify the relevant financial instruments at any time upon request. secondly, in the interests of fair competition, it is necessary that the same conditions apply to parent companies of management companies and investment firms from third countries as to parent companies from the european union. finally, a distinction must be made between on- and off-exchange transactions. while in the first case ownership is transferred upon conclusion of the contract and therefore direct notification can and must be made, in the case of otc transactions, the conclusion of the contract and the transfer of ownership may be separate. it would be wrong to require notification at the time of conclusion of the contract. on the contrary, a notification at this stage could have a distorting effect on the market. despite this success of the european parliament in the negotiations, there are still points on which the commission has not yet followed parliament's lead, as commissioner mccreevy has pointed out. for example, in relation to the following questions: first, which authority must a market maker apply to for a derogation from the notification requirement when it reaches a certain threshold? second, what is the minimum content of non-consolidated half-yearly financial statements that have not been prepared in accordance with ifrs? and thirdly, how can we ensure that the auditors follow a uniform approach when they review the half-yearly report? i would appeal to my colleagues to vote yes tomorrow to preserve our chance of having the commission and the member states carefully consider and possibly take into account parliament's demands on these remaining points.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not as in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i am also representing my colleague, professor lauk, the shadow rapporteur for the epp-ed group. we all wish him a good recovery from his shoulder surgery. on his behalf i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr peter skinner, of the socialist group, for his constructive cooperation, and also the shadow rapporteur for the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, my fellow hessian, mr wolf klinz. the compromise of the three was the basis for our unanimous adoption of the motion for a resolution in committee. the eu commission has also been efficient. commissioner mccreevy, you have taken the main points into your draft implementing directive and after consultation you have incorporated further modifications. this solution provides greater transparency in information on securities admitted to trading on the regulated market. the epp-ed group was particularly concerned about three points: firstly, the requirements for the half-yearly audits should not be too bureaucratic. result: the comparative data do not have to be submitted immediately after the entry into force of the directive. a more sensible transitional period was agreed. secondly, on the subject of voting rights, subsidiaries should be managed both in an integrated manner and independently. that too has been achieved. thirdly, in the case of publications which must be made quickly, it should not be prescribed in detail in what medium they must appear. once again, there was an agreement. in view of these productive changes, my group agrees with the skinner report. i hope, together with kurt lauk, that we shall have a broad agreement in the european parliament tomorrow!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to take this opportunity to draw attention to two main points in these two reports. firstly, as far as i know, the new comitology procedure does not yet apply formally to this area, but i assume that the commission will take parliament's vote into account, because it will apply to future new amendments. the second is how we will deal with ifrs standards in the future. this is an area which will become increasingly important in the future. i can say on behalf of our group that we generally welcome ifrs standards as an international rule for european companies in particular. but there are conditions. the objective of convergence must also be achieved in the light of the fact that the european vision, the european priorities, will prevail in these discussions in the future. i am therefore irritated when i hear signals from the board of trustees that the debate on whether and when convergence is possible is viewed with some criticism. the main question is: how will we develop further standards in the future? we are aware that there is now a discussion on what are known as sme ifrs. the trials are going very fast. the discussions will be held in the appropriate bodies. this is all detached from a political process. i would therefore not only encourage the commission, but i would ask it to follow this process very closely from the point of view of political democratic control and to involve parliament in every way. i am the rapporteur for this parliament and i have experience of basle. you can assume that this process will not be such that an agreement is reached at international level and parliament can only then accept it. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission is not only encouraged but also asked to actively involve european interests and not to let the board as we have done on other issues put it in front of the facts.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs mccarthy, warmly for her work and her efforts to bring this project, which is very important for our citizens, to a satisfactory conclusion. like the rapporteur, i would also like to thank the former united kingdom presidency, particularly baroness ashton, for the work done in moving ahead with this important project. as you know, this regulation on the european order for payment procedure aims at facilitating the mass recovery of uncontested claims in europe. it is thus very important, as it will allow all creditors in europe to recover their claims in a uniform way and more rapidly and cheaply than in ordinary court proceedings. it will also alleviate the burden on the courts by removing from ordinary proceedings those claims where the debtor does not contest the debt. the proposal potentially concerns all citizens and economic operators in europe. a european order for payment can circulate freely in europe and will be enforced automatically. there will be therefore no need to request a declaration of enforcement – the ‘exequatur’ – in the member state of enforcement. concerning the amendments, i can accept the third amendment as proposed. on the second amendment, i can accept the compromise amendment on the comitology procedure, which is in line with the council decision taken in july 2006. on the first amendment, while i understand the reason and the concern expressed by the committee, i think that we should not at this stage reopen the question of the definition of a cross-border case, adopted at first reading by the council and the european parliament. at the same time, i can confirm that the commission is available and willing to look more closely into the effects of the regulation for parties domiciled in third countries and, in particular, states of the european economic area. i am ready to give very careful consideration to any proposals.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the rapporteur, mrs mccarthy, has essentially discussed the economic significance. this european order for payment procedure represents a significant advance in the field of cross-border enforcement, in particular for the business sector, which has a particular interest in the rapid determination of the existence of claims, the rapid issuance of a title and the enforceability of that right in the debtor's country without any further costly steps. but - and this is my main point - crossborder legal relationships will also become increasingly important for private individuals. it is particularly difficult for private individuals to assert claims across borders, whether or not they are contested. we are dealing with unchallenged claims today. that's why this first step is important. in particular, private individuals, for whom the legal enforcement of claims is already complicated, have great problems with cross-border claims. the present instrument will be a relief to them. a form which can be filled in by a private individual will make it possible to make claims without great expense and with relative ease. another aspect: there is always talk of the economy, of creditors, but too little of debtors. we have introduced systems in the member states of the european union - including my own country - which make the securitisation of such claims extremely cost-effective for the debtor. the debtor who is willing but may not be able to pay can agree with the creditor who has an interest in having the limitation period overruled by the title to a reasonable installment payment, and thus less costs will be incurred because no contentious proceedings have taken place. it is therefore in the interest of all concerned that we establish a fast, efficient and cost-effective crossborder procedure.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. today we commemorate the uprising of the hungarian people 50 years ago, when people rose in desperation against a totalitarian dictatorship. we commemorate today the events of the autumn of 1956 because they did it for all of us. you have paid tribute to the idea of freedom, justice and democracy. they have defended and strengthened the dignity of the human person. they showed dignity even when they were run over by tanks. they fled for all of us, suffered for all of us, and in doing so kept the memory alive for all of us for years and decades. the heroes of the hungarian revolution are our common heroes. they are heroes of europe. we remember her today because we are committed to her legacy. we honour their work because we are bound together by the promise - especially here in the european parliament - that there must never again be such a challenge to freedom and human dignity in europe. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. we bow to them. what began with the first large-scale demonstration in budapest on october 23, 1956, and ended with the invasion of soviet troops on november 4, 1956, was a revolution of freedom. the participants in the hungarian uprising were right to speak of revolution, of forradalom. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the difference is not just that of a small word in the hungarian language. the difference is huge. it's the difference between freedom and unfreedom. the people of hungary acted for our values in europe, because the freedom for which the heroes of the hungarian people's uprising of 1956 fought and died is part of the european identity. our goals are the goals of the people in hungary at that time. nothing could better illustrate the radiance of this event than the fact that today we are commemorating the hungarian uprising of 1956 and that we have freely elected representatives of hungary here in the european parliament. for me, it remains the miracle of my generation. the freedom of hungary has become the freedom of europe, and the freedom of europe remains the guarantee of hungary's freedom. i would like to thank the hungarian colleagues in all the political groups, particularly in view of the events in budapest and hungary today, for having made it possible for us to agree on a common text, a common resolution. this shows us that beyond the day-to-day political squabbles, we have common principles that bind us together. my request is that no side in the budapest clashes behave disproportionately, that no side responds disproportionately to demonstrations, because we are bound together by common values, the values of freedom. that connects us to 1956, and that connects us to this year 2006. let us always put this common ground at the centre of all disputes. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. there is a connection between the anniversary we are commemorating today - the anniversary of the hungarian uprising against the soviet oppressors in their country - and the anniversary we will be commemorating next spring, the 50th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome. these events took place in close proximity, and both share the same spirit. the treaty of rome was marked by the spirit of freedom and the free association of peoples. that was the spirit of the hungarian uprising. the hungarians wanted to get out of a system of coercion, they wanted their own sovereignty, their sovereignty as a free people. they had to fight and fight against a power that wanted to take that right away from them. fifty years later, we remember those men and women who took for themselves the right which we, as the european union, now guarantee to every people, namely, to live in freedom and self-determination in the democratic community of nations. the men and women who fought for this right against their oppressors are the true heroes of european history. because they had no weapons, they could not defend themselves against an army, they stood with their bare hands and with their breasts open - we know these images - against the tanks. the courage of these men and women is admirable. i think that this courage and this attitude, which we - my predecessor and you, mr president, have mentioned - have found not only in hungary but also in poland and twelve years later in czechoslovakia, is also part of the heritage of europe. because it shows that on this continent, women and men have always been willing to risk their lives for freedom. the courage of these men and women is one of the best things that hungary has to offer europe; it is also one of the best things that we europeans have to preserve. i believe that the later fall of the wall, the opportunity to tear down that wall, to cross the iron curtain, was built in the courage of those days. because one thing is absolutely clear: as bitter as any oppression is, as painful as any dictatorship is, none of it is permanent. no oppression will be able to hold back the will of a people to freedom, the will of men to freedom. every dictatorship in the history of mankind has failed at some point. just as the communist, stalinist dictatorship failed, so will other dictatorships in this world. that is to say, the courage of the men and women in hungary fifty years ago is the courage of men and women in other parts of the world today who are standing up against oppression there. so this fight is a continuous one, it goes on. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union. this is a completely different concept: to join an international community voluntarily in free self-determination, instead of being subjected to a coercive community by force. this is precisely the enormous progress we have made in europe in these 50 years. this riot happened when i was a very small baby, ten months old. i was a kid in 1956. the fact that i have been able to live my life in freedom is a tremendous privilege that i pass on to the hungarian men and women of my generation. i'm grateful for that. but i am all the more glad that at this stage of my life we europeans, those of us born in freedom in western europe, can live together in our union today with those born in oppression. there could not have been a better gift for my generation here and in hungary! (applause from the centre)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the reintegration of women with breast cancer into the labour market and the use of social fund funds for the training of medical staff in the field of breast cancer, by jan andersson and karin jöns, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-0098/2006 b6-0433/2006), the oral question to the commission on the early detection and treatment of breast cancer in the enlarged european union, by karl-heinz florenz and karin jöns, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-00101/2006 b6-0434/2006), and the oral question to the commission on breast cancer, by anna karin záborská and jöns, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-0036/2006 b6-0411/2006).
a writer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. first of all, i would like to thank the chairmen of the three committees, anna záborská, karl-heinz florenz and jan andersson, for the wonderful cooperation they have shown in preparing this debate. i also thank the president-in-office. three years ago breast cancer was on the agenda, and today it is a matter of taking a first look, and this seems to be urgently needed. in the eu-25, 275 000 women are diagnosed with breast cancer each year. the risk of dying from it is twice as high in one eu member state as in another. to make matters worse, younger women are getting sick. in recent years alone, the number of people under 40 has doubled. breast cancer is still the number one cause of death in women between 35 and 55. i am also appalled by the radicalism with which this is still being done in many member states. even in cases of very early detection, in some countries breast amputation is the rule rather than the exception. today, breast-support surgery is available in 80% of cases. so you see, progress is happening at a snail's pace. this is all the more true in the new member states, where the failures and shortcomings in the whole supply chain are most dramatic. the fact that the structures are still inadequate or even catastrophic has less to do with problems of public budgets than with the economic and social interests of doctors, at least in the old member states. let 's start with early detection . the establishment of a nationwide mammography screening according to eu guidelines costs the public sector a one-off maximum of eur 1.25 per citizen! i think that no one in this house wants to tell us that there is no such money. if we had eu-wide mammography screening, we could save 31 000 women's lives in the eu every year, help to reduce healthcare costs and significantly reduce the overall social costs of follow-up. but to date, only 11 states have quality assured screening, and not all of them are. in your country too, mr špidla, we must stop selling opportunistic screening as eu screening. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. now we know you're both on our side. nevertheless, we would have liked to have had the commission's progress report, which is expected in the spring, by now. we also ask you to make more of an effort to draw attention to the possibility of using structural fund funds to set up a screening. but the best early detection is of no use if the follow-up treatment is inadequate or wrong. again and again, breast cancer is operated on and treated in hospitals that have little experience. i would therefore like to thank the commission specifically for the eu guidelines for breast centres which we have received from you since last year. the ball is now in the hands of the member states. because in the whole eu there are such centres - listen and marvel - so far only in the uk! that is why we are calling today in our resolution for the groups to demand that the member states establish sufficient breastfeeding centres throughout their countries by 2016. that is quite feasible by 2016. we need some 1 800 such centres throughout the eu. then every woman would have the chance to experience the same optimal treatment regardless of where she lives. to ensure that breast centres really do work according to eu criteria, that they really only document a minimum number of operations for new breast cancer, namely 150 per year in one and the same centre, to ensure that the specialists really specialize exclusively in benign and malignant breast diseases and actually provide interdisciplinary advice on every case of breast cancer before and after surgery, we now also need guidelines for breast centre certification. the commission will be asking you to take the lead in drawing up these guidelines very quickly. we also ask you to develop guidelines for the professional image of the nurse nurse, who can play a very important role as a conductor and mediator between doctor and patient in these centres throughout the treatment. (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, mrs. jons. this is a very personal thank you.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank mrs jöns for allowing me to co-sign this request. i was very happy to do so, because i noticed in the debate how little i had heard about this subject. i have to say that i am not entirely convinced that the european parliament has the right to decide on the future of the community. i shall try to put my political weight on the scale on this subject, because i cannot add anything to what mrs jöns and the other members have said. i appeal to both commissioners to have the courage to tackle this issue, to fight the council's cowardice! the council has often - and i have seen this too many times - said, with a certain condescension: this is subsidiarity, this is a national task. information, communication, these are the tasks of the future, also in view of this terrible disease. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and think about it: we even have guidelines for how to set up ladders, but we don't have guidelines for how we're going to fight breast cancer, the most important disease on this continent, in the future. i find the idea of developing the professional image of a highly qualified nurse to be exceptionally good and interesting. i assure you of my full support! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have an excellent motion for a resolution. it talks a lot about better prevention and control of breast cancer. many have pointed out that there are suggestions for, for example, better screening. that's good, and we should expand that. but i want to emphasize again that it is also about prevention. it is a myth that genetic factors and lifestyle are the sole causes of the disease. new studies confirm that harmful environmental influences in the form of toxic chemicals or increased radiation are responsible for half of all breast cancers. we must also pay attention to this. in addition to comprehensive research into the causes of the problem, health protection must also be a priority in european chemical legislation. we have set the course for greater health and environmental protection in europe in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. but today's vote on breast cancer is also a clear endorsement of strong reach, because it is clear that women are particularly vulnerable to the harmful effects of chemicals due to their altered hormonal systems. studies in the united states show that women farmers who use certain pesticides in their fields are at an increased risk of developing breast cancer. women living within a mile of a dedicated herbicide and pesticide dump are also at increased risk. we know that many emollients have been used in cosmetic products that have contributed to the growth of breast cancer cells. prevention should be given even greater importance in our fight against breast cancer!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have heard today the overwhelming figures that testify to how breast cancer is invading the lives of people - women and men. it is a matter of chance whether the treatment is quick and effective and what the chances of survival of the women are. as coordinator of the women's committee, i have been involved in this issue for many years and we have learned a lot. it can't be that. we have had the eu guidelines for quality mammography for over ten years. i am invited to a background check in belgium, for example, where i have my second home, whereas nothing happens in my home country of germany. the lives of mothers, daughters, wives could be saved and the trauma alleviated. but it's moving at a snail's pace. our committee on women's rights and gender equality produced a very good report in 2003 with many proposals, but little is happening. i think there is a lack of political will. i can see it at european level, and there is still a lot to be done in the member states. we have now, in the seventh framework programme for research, the opportunity to put pressure once again to get more money into research. in other women's diseases, such as migraine, there has been little political pressure to move forward and interdisciplinary action. interdisciplinary breast centers - the knowledge has been around in the united states for over twenty years - can help very efficiently. we have them in europe now, but i see no political will to implement them here either. so let us all work together - here in the european parliament - to combat the trauma of breast cancer for all, not just those who can afford it.
, author (pse). the commission has already made a number of proposals. that was a very important debate and a very good one. we have shown once again that the european parliament is truly on the side of women with breast cancer and their families. i am also aware that we are the only parliament in the european union which regularly deals with structural improvements in the treatment and early detection of breast cancer during international breast cancer month. i would like to thank the commission today for giving us the commitment to develop a certification procedure for the interdisciplinary breast centres and for the professional image of the breast nurse. but, commissioners, if you would also put these guidelines on the net, we would be very pleased, because in the age of modern communication this would not be a hasty step! we also hope that you will not simply put the guidelines on the market in book form. the debate has also brought into focus for the first time a completely new aspect, namely the treatment of women with illness in the labour market and their reintegration into the labour market. in this context, a campaign of awareness-raising by employers has been called for. if i understand you correctly, mr špidla, you gave us that assurance today. thank you very much. the charter of the rights of persons with chronic illnesses at work is very important in this context. i think the committee on employment and social affairs will take up this matter. finally, there is a remark: we do not know how to treat women with breast cancer. the answer is, the same as with other cancer patients. we should not stigmatize them, as unfortunately happens all the time, but simply treat them as normal, which is probably what has helped them the most.
thank you very much, mrs. jons. i am unjustly joining mrs jöns in her request that you put the guidelines on the net, although i am only supposed to be chairing the debate. the commission does not need to refinance itself through the book.
member of the commission. madam president, i should like to thank members for a very interesting and helpful debate. i knew from the beginning that we were on the same side, but it is good to reassure each other whenever possible. i should like to respond to a few specific points very briefly and then make one general comment, which will cover the issue raised. we are aware of the issue of breast cancer in men, raised by mr bowis. we have to deal with it as a rare disease, because it is much less common than for women. we are focusing on it and will raise it with experts very soon to see how we can include it in future guidelines, but as a rare disease, in the same way as we deal with other rare diseases. on research, i should like to repeat that environmental causes are part of the plan. the new seventh framework programme will provide an opportunity to open up that area of research. gene-environment interaction and cancer development will also cover lifestyle and other major risk factors. we will then be able to learn more about the causes of the disease. that is a priority, because prevention is much more important than having to treat the disease afterwards. the question of other cancers was raised by mr adamou. we are working on those and not just concentrating on one. each one is a specific case and needs specific guidelines and a specific approach. we expect to have guidelines for cervical cancer by next year, for prostate cancer by 2008 and for colorectal cancer by 2009. we have to evaluate, we have to have research, we have to put everything together and then come up with guidelines. we are also working on other areas such as the hepatitis b and c viruses, because we know they cause liver cancer, as well as aspects such as tobacco, obesity and other causes of cancer. we have issued guidelines and recommendations on how member states deal with this and the inequalities. these do not have legal force, so we cannot enforce them on member states. they represent best practice. with your help, we encourage and put pressure on member states to comply with the guidelines. i look forward to debating this once we have produced the report. we shall then be able to discuss the outcome and the commitment of the member states. this is a worrying issue. the numbers are terrifying. if we have to put pressure on member states to do their job on this, you can imagine what happens with rare diseases which do not affect so many people. putting it cynically and bluntly, there is not so much political pressure. if we stop to think about it we could panic, but we must not. our job is to make sure that member states fulfil their commitments and follow the recommendations they adopt and the guidelines they agree to. we shall be working on that, in relation not just to breast cancer but to all the inequalities that unfortunately still exist in the european union, within member states as well as between member states. this is not the european union of solidarity that we all aspire to and have all joined. that applies to the use of structural funds. the money is there, but unless spending on health is adopted as a priority by member states, there is nothing we can do. again, it is a challenge for us to make member states adopt the policies. unless member states acknowledge that spending on health is not a cost but an investment – and we have to convince them of that – the situation will not improve. that is where we have to work together and cooperate.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i also want to thank you for a very lively debate which has clarified the problem of breast cancer from a number of angles, and i think it is very good that the social issue or the respective issues have also been brought up, which have led to the fact that the issue of this disease is not just a medical issue but a broader issue, also a question of social and labour market non-discrimination. it is also clear that the european union's direct possibilities are limited, but on the other hand we are not yet making full use of the possibilities we have, and that is, in my view, one of the great challenges that has been raised here. i would like to thank parliament in general, because i am convinced that if this issue is kept at such a high level with such a clear political effort and with such a clear political will to solve it, it will be reflected directly and indirectly in reality on the actual solution of this issue. because in social policy and in medicine, you always have to count on units, because that unit is one individual person, any progress, whether small or large, we can ultimately count on human lives, and i believe that we can make such progress that the result will be visible.
the debate was closed by the tabling of resolution b6-0528/2006 in accordance with rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon on wednesday.
the rapporteur. the commission is not we are discussing media 2007, the third generation of programmes to promote the european film industry. i would like to thank my colleagues from the committee on culture and education and the committees of inquiry for the excellent cooperation they have shown, and especially commissioner reding and her staff, who have done everything possible to contribute to the successful development of the european audiovisual industry together with parliament. exactly one year ago today, on 25 october 2005, we adopted this draft programme here in parliament with a large majority. our aim was to adopt the programme in time - and early - so that it could actually be available to filmmakers in europe by 1 january 2007. unfortunately, the european council did not have the foresight to follow this timetable and initially gave us difficult financial negotiations. the media 2007 programme has the same structure as its successful predecessors media and media plus. it covers the training, development and distribution of the audiovisual sector, but not production. this is a matter for the member states. the media programme is extremely important because, as we all know, the audiovisual sector is one of the fastest growing economic sectors not only in europe but also in the world. if europe is to keep up, it must set the course. the media programme is a response to two central problems facing the european audiovisual market: the first is the fragmentation of the market, particularly because of our cultural, linguistic and national diversity. this is a wealth, one of europe's most important riches, but it is also a major challenge for the development of the market. secondly, the audiovisual market in europe is chronically undercapitalised. the media programme is successfully responding to these challenges. 90% of all crossborder films in europe have been supported by the media programme and every euro invested through the media programme brings 20 euros in follow-up investments. it was therefore very right, in this context, that the commission and in particular commissioner reding had been committed to ensuring that sufficient support from the european union was provided for in this area and that an amount of one billion euros was proposed. unfortunately, this amount could not be enforced in the negotiations with the council, and was reduced to eur 671 000 million. we are only maintaining the status quo and not making progress. nevertheless, there are three priorities for the new programme: first, digitisation; second, closer cooperation at all levels; and third, better access to financial institutions specialised in film funding. i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the results of the work carried out by the committee on budgets.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would also like to begin by thanking mrs ruth hieronymi very warmly for her work and also commissioner reding for her good cooperation. in fact, our media policy is about developing the specific aesthetic language of european films. it is at the heart of our cultural identity to fight against the dominance of hollywood and to show our own diverse european-inspired films and to enable their production and distribution. we know that the audiovisual industry is also extremely important for the lisbon strategy and for the economic development of europe. however, this is not only an economic issue but also a profoundly cultural issue, as well as a question of cultural identity and cultural diversity. i support the previous speakers in their view that the capital is too low, that we need a quick start and better financial provision for our media programme.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i too would like to begin by thanking mr graça moura for his work on this important aspect of our european policy. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. europe is more than the single market, even if we cannot do without it. europe has a lot to do with cultural identity and our cultural wealth, which we want to preserve and develop. culture can divide people, especially when you're playing on distinction. our cultural policy aims to ensure that culture connects the people of europe, brings them into contact with each other, enables them to make contacts and establishes a connection with the world with different and diverse worlds . we should not be afraid of grinding differences, but encourage them. this is the heart of our european cultural policy. the three objectives are therefore right: the promotion of cultural exchanges, the mobility of artists and intercultural dialogue. but that is not possible with the amount agreed so far. if we want to do more for europe in the cultural field, we must have the courage to provide a larger cultural budget in the coming years.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am honoured to be here today to discuss the 2007 budget. i can assure you that we will take very much interest in the issues that arise during the debate and will pass them on to all our colleagues. the budget preparation process is a long one. i appreciate the atmosphere of direct discussion that has prevailed between the representatives of the council and parliament throughout the year. the last time we spoke was october 18th, at the budget trilogy. i had already had the opportunity to give some preliminary reactions to the draft amendments of the committee on budgets, which the plenary will be voting on on thursday. before i present some important matters to the council, i shall deal with qualitative matters of relevance to the functioning of the union as a whole. i intend to speak frankly and to the point. i think that the committee on budgets, led by the rapporteurs elles and grech, has done a very unbiased job by also focusing on what is achieved with the money of the citizens and the taxpayers. i hope that the commission will also be involved. the value-for-money added value generated by union funds should become a regular process. the value for money principle must be made a pervasive element in the whole budgetary procedure. i also think that the first reading of the budget should focus on the arguments on the merits. i do not think it is good that the budgetary authority is using its first reading to make political statements. i already said at the presentation of the council's draft budget on 5 september 2006 that the eu budgetary procedure needs innovation. without innovative budgetary solutions, we cannot promote the union's competitiveness and improve the efficiency of the institutions' governance. the budgetary authority should take concrete action to achieve these objectives already in the 2007 budget. the council considers that parliament's intention to increase payment appropriations significantly without having identified needs is not the right way to build a bridge between the eu and its citizens. such a significant increase would only result in a large surplus for the coming year. the 2007 budget must be based on realistic and well-reasoned budgetary needs. the budget for the common foreign and security policy cannot be cut in half. in the interinstitutional agreement agreed five months ago, parliament approved an average of eur 250 million per year. in this context, i believe that the amount of eur 159 million proposed by the commission and supported by the council is a reasonable amount. i ask you, how can parliament's position of 73 million euros be defended? i hope that the plenary will act responsibly on these two issues as well. the budgetary authority will develop a procedure for the use of the reserves in the near future. appropriations should not be reserved for purely tactical reasons. the provisions of the financial regulation must be followed to the letter here too. as we all know, the 2007 budget is the first budget to be covered by the new interinstitutional agreement. it is therefore very important that all the old familiar parts of it such as ceilings and adequate margins are respected from the outset. the new agreement also contains new provisions on pilot projects and preparatory actions. i would like to emphasize these provisions, which clearly state that pilot projects and preparatory measures are not the exclusive prerogative of another budgetary authority. both parliament and the council must respect the content of the new interinstitutional agreement in this respect too. the 2007 budget is a whole. it is important that the budgetary authority reaches a commonly agreed overall package in the budgetary procedure. the most important elements of the whole package are interwoven. i would like to return to the reform of the financial regulation. this is a matter of great concern to parliament and the commission, and they have urged the council to act quickly. the last time president borrel raised the issue was in his talks with prime minister vanhassen on 17 october. i am now pleased to announce that on 19 october the council reached a common position on the reform of the financial regulation. this will enable us to hold a meeting with parliament on 21 november on the financial regulation. i regret that we were not able to keep to the timetable set out by the budget commissioner in his letter of june. the commission had requested that the consultation should have taken place last week. however, i believe that the timetable i have mentioned will allow sufficient time to create a comprehensive overall solution. i hope that my brief comments will help you to understand the council's position. i firmly believe that parliament and the council will be able to reach a good common budgetary solution for 2007 in the discussions in the coming weeks.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to express the commission’s appreciation for the work that was done by the committee on budgets and its rapporteur, tackling more than 1200 proposals from other committees in the process of the preparations for first reading. we know what that means and how it was done. in general, the commission has had a positive reaction to the proposal that has been placed on the table by parliament for tomorrow’s vote. however, i should like to mention three sensitive points, which we would like to solve, together with parliament, before second reading. the first point is about the horizontal reserves on 30% of budget lines on value-added programmes. we are a bit concerned about the first application of the programme – not as a political idea, which we supported from the very beginning, but the first application of it on the amount in general and some conditionalities that are coming together. however, the commission and its secretariat are ready to come in the middle of november for the hearings, to which parliament has invited us, to explain as much as we can, to allow parliament to lift as much as it will be able to before the second reading. the second element is on agencies, especially three new ones. they are supposed to come into being in 2007. the committee on budgets was removing preparations for them. we understand that it concerns point 47 in our new interinstitutional agreement. the relationship between two budgetary authorities needs to be clarified and the new procedures defined –that is why we will in the near future be asking for technical meetings between the three institutions to clarify the situation in order to allow those three agencies to come into being as of january 2007. the third element is a reserve of eur 50 million on commission staff salaries in heading 5. we would like to thank parliament for restoring the cuts which have been performed by the council, but reserves are still of concern to us because conditionalities are wide and there are a lot of them. but as i said in the beginning, we will strive to make as much information as possible available before 15 november and before the final conciliation with both arms of the budgetary authority, so as to be able to lift as much as we can. if a reserve is not lifted at least partially from 1 january, we are not able to start recruitment at all for anybody, including from new member states and the replacement of retired staff. in general we are positive. we are ready to work closely with parliament on lifting and fulfilling all conditions provided at first reading as a proposal for us. we hope that by 21 november we will be able to come to an agreement that will be good for all three institutions and acceptable.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: the commission is not let me first congratulate our colleague james elles on his strategic thinking. i'm just going to use the keywords china and india. this is a new development and we must take it very seriously. in the committee on development we have succeeded in restoring the resources of the erdf and in maintaining the transparency of the budget. we have also managed to produce a report which is already in line with the dci report by our colleague gay mitchell. i have nevertheless tabled two amendments in the plenary which were not accepted by the committee on budgets. this is amendment no 250, which is aimed at a pilot project for small and mediumsized enterprises in developing countries. i would remind you that we adopted a report on smes in developing countries just this year. if we want to help build smes in developing countries, we must strengthen the role of smes. it would be a real shame if we did not underline our own call for the strengthening of smes in developing countries by a pilot project in this field. the second point is amendment no 253. this is about exchanges with other parliaments. the amendment concerns our own ep budget and the possibility of maintaining contact with other parliaments such as the pan-african parliament or the afghan parliament. the european parliament can thus have a genuinely positive influence on the process of democratization in the world. i therefore urge you to vote in favour of this amendment on thursday.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are now at the beginning of the first financial year of the financial perspective which was negotiated in april and which we adopted in may. the narrow financial framework presents us with some problems in achieving our political objectives. the commission was very cautious in drawing up the 2007 preliminary draft budget. the council has, as always, been unblinking in its reduction of expertise. the environmental committee tried to save what could be saved. we have therefore reinstated the figures in the preliminary draft budget and increased the amounts in a few lines in a responsible manner. the committee on budgets has accepted all the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment. i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on budgets for this. however, we are not satisfied with the overall situation, especially as we are faced with unresolved problems in the life+ and health action programme in the 2007 financial year. the only area which gives us hope for the future, because the development and the financing are positive, is the agencies, not just those for which the committee on the environment is responsible as a committee of experts, but all of them. cooperation with the agencies has improved considerably over the last two years. we will even have the personnel and development plans by the end of the year. my positive assessment applies to all agencies. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european agency for the development of vocational training, the establishment of a european agency for the development of vocational training and the establishment of a european agency for the development of vocational training. we are still waiting for the parliament to start negotiations with the council under article 47 of the interinstitutional agreement, negotiations on where the money for the three new agencies is to come from. the council presidency, perhaps you could speed up the process a little at this point!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i agree with the value for money approach in principle, because it is about efficiency and economy in the handling of money. on the other hand - and this is our conflict of objectives - it is also about having money for europe, because we want to inspire people and to advance the european project. we cannot do that without adequate financial resources. i am reminded of the debates this morning on the cultural programme and cultural policy in europe and i am thinking of the debates we will have this evening on lifelong learning, youth policy in the coming years and 'europe for citizens'. it was complained about this morning and it will be complained about again tonight that we are not spending enough money in this area which really reaches the people, the citizens of europe and brings them into contact with europe. we have a common problem of acceptance, how to get people excited about europe. that is why we should not be saving on these programmes in particular, but investing more in the future of europe. the committee on culture and education has therefore very consistently rejected the council's cuts in these programmes.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the budget debates in the european parliament are not exactly famous for being sexy. however, they are very important because we are setting out the priorities of our work for the coming years in the 2007 budget. you know that the green group in the european parliament did not approve the financial perspective for 2007-13 because we believe that this financial planning solves too few problems. we are also looking at the 2007 budget and asking ourselves whether we are really doing with this budget what needs to be done. we are not in favour of our agricultural policy, for example, and we are not in favour of the fact that too much is still being spent on agricultural export subsidies. our chilled chickens cost only half as much in african markets as the africans themselves produce. and then we complain that we have too many refugees from africa. we are contributing to this problem ourselves with this agricultural policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union should also change this policy. or our tobacco policy: we still subsidize tobacco farmers. at the same time, we are banning tobacco advertising. i think that is also inconsistent and not a wise european policy. given the globalization blues we have in many european countries -- think of the referendum in france -- we should make globalization a more equitable policy. we should be even more vocal in our support for fair trade and more serious in our commitment to the millennium development goals. this is where we are lagging behind in funding the fight against global poverty. but europe should also do more to promote a future-oriented energy policy. we should invest more in research into renewable energy. this would make us more independent of mr putin and give us the opportunity to criticise his autocratic regime more clearly. so what do we do instead? we need to invest more in education, research, culture, media and the cultural industry as an important pillar of the lisbon strategy. this would also help us to develop the lisbon strategy in a more precise and forward-looking way. we need more common political spirit in europe. only then can we develop a responsible common foreign policy which is preventive, which is civil, which strengthens civil society in neighbourhood policy, but which is also interventionist when it has to be. but we're not spending enough money on that. i would very much like to see value for money as our benchmark, but good money for europe must be our other orientation. we are not going to spend 1% of our gross national income on europe, we are not going to spend enough money on important and correct european policies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are for the first time clearly linking up with the 2005 budget with this 2007 budget. i thank the rapporteur. in budget implementation, we must do more to combat the waste of eu money the simple catch-all effects and the lack of efficiency. the commission's redundancies have been a source of controversy up to now. we say no, but with restrictions and do the nail sample. what efficiency gains is the council prepared to grant the commission, for example in its luxembourg offices? how well equipped is the commission itself for its future tasks, which are less about legislation than about monitoring the implementation of community law? there are two bodies responsible for monitoring community environmental legislation, which accounts for 40% of our legislation. we must also take this into account in parliament's budget. in 2007, we hired nine translators and interpreters for irish, although eight of our 13 irish colleagues do not speak irish. 60 colleagues are travelling in the new parliamentary assembly eurolat and are not following the customs of parliamentary assemblies, i.e. intergovernmental agreements. we are building as a parliament in 2007 on all three sites, and it is becoming increasingly difficult for me to explain this to the visitor groups and the voters at home. all of these are good points on which to base our criticism of the court of auditors and our commitment to better implementation of the eu budget.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! the 2007 financial year is very exciting because it is about bringing to life for the first time what the heads of state and government decided in december last year as their political priority for the financial perspective and what we agreed between parliament and the council in may this year. i'm very worried about a few things. we are also going to adopt this week a number of legal bases for multiannual programmes which are to run from 1 january next year. we are now at the stage where member states are formulating their framework plans for the implementation of structural policy and submitting them to the commission. i am quite concerned that the 2007 budget will become a budget of austerity because a large number of programmes cannot even start, although they are urgently needed. let me be very clear: coming from a country which has the honour of financing 20% of the european union, we are concerned that if so much money is demanded - even if there has been no increase in the percentage of gross national income compared to the past, but because of enlargement the gross national income has also increased, this is only mentioned in the margins - then of course there must be a corresponding value for this money. i am therefore very pleased that our rapporteur, james elles, has said that we want to fund more programmes and less administration. the commission must also demonstrate that it can manage the programmes properly and that administrative costs are not the only costs. we need to get the agency issue under control. i would also like to say the same for the parliament's budget: we must get the return on what we have achieved through our successful building policy. we cannot continue to inflate the budget of the parliament because we now have money to spend and finance things that may not be needed, such as web tv. so value for money, value for money, that's the crucial point. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
member of the commission. i think that economically the emerging economies can certainly take on the sort of requests we are making, not only because they are obliged to reciprocate proportionately and commensurately, because that is the principle on which the world trade system and its negotiations are based, but also because they would benefit from it. they would benefit from the progressive opening-up of their industrial sectors by a reasonable lowering of their applied industrial tariffs. i say ‘applied’ because the bound duties will come down. they are already being reduced autonomously in many cases amongst the emerging economies. i do not underestimate the benefit to the global economy as a whole, as well as to us in europe, of those autonomous reductions in tariffs being consolidated by means of a ratchet so that the liberalisation cannot be reversed. i think it is understood by our negotiating partners that, quite apart from the economics, the politics dictate that there must be reciprocity, flexibility and moves in the area of industrial tariffs and services if we are going to be able to demonstrate clearly to our constituents that there really is a worthwhile return for the enormous payments we are making into this round in order to bring the negotiations to a successful conclusion.
member of the commission. sweden is currently one of the 11 member states with a derogation from the adoption of the single currency. member states with a derogation are obliged to adopt the euro as their currency and to do so they must endeavour to meet the convergence criteria laid down in the treaty. however, the treaty does not set explicit deadlines for member states to comply with this obligation. in its 2004 convergence report, the commission concluded that sweden fulfilled the criteria on price stability, the government budgetary position and the criterion on long-term interest rate convergence. however, the commission concluded in the same convergence report that sweden did not fulfil the exchange rate criterion, which requires that the country concerned has observed, without severe tensions and for at least two years prior to the examination, the normal fluctuation margins established by the exchange rate mechanism of the european monetary system. furthermore, the commission noted in the 2004 convergence report that the swedish legislation was not fully compatible with articles 108 and 109 of the treaty. in the light of this assessment, the commission concluded that sweden's status as a member state with a derogation in this area should not be changed. in accordance with the treaty, the commission and the european central bank will publish the next convergence report before the end of this year. the new member states have committed themselves to adopting the euro as soon as they meet the criteria laid down in the treaty. slovenia will join the euro area on 1 january 2007, cyprus and malta want to join on 1 january 2008, slovakia on 1 january 2009 and other member states, which had previously defined target figures, are in the process of revising them. in any event, as i said at the beginning of my reply, with the exception of the two states with a derogation clause, namely the united kingdom and denmark, the other members of the european union which have not yet adopted the single currency, and which are in that situation of derogation, have the obligation to adopt it and to prepare to meet those criteria, but there is no mandatory date for them to do so.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to have two specific pieces of additional information. firstly, if a member state does not adopt the euro for years without a contractual arrangement, as sweden has done, will the commission take legal action, for example before the court of justice, or will it not take any action in 20 years' time? my second question is: what about poland, the czech republic and hungary? is there any sign of progress, especially in hungary?
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fact that we are here in the house does not indicate the importance of the subject we are discussing today. the youth in action programme 2007-2013 is certainly a milestone for our young europeans. i thank the commission and the council for the very constructive cooperation. we have examined 58 amendments at first reading, which have been incorporated in the main into the draft, and with this result of the informal negotiations we are now arriving at the common position which we are adopting and on which we can agree at second reading. all three institutions have worked hard to find a solution with and for young people, the main target group of 15-18 year olds in the european union - perhaps 170 million citizens - that makes europe a reality for them, helps reduce the bureaucracy of the programme and facilitates access to the programme for disadvantaged young people. the general objectives of the programme are as follows: first, the promotion of citizenship. we want to facilitate civic cooperation among young people, but also to offer them the opportunity to work together at european level, for example to overcome electoral fatigue and to arouse interest in politics. secondly, we want to promote solidarity and tolerance among young people, in particular to strengthen social cohesion in the eu. new life designs and models of young people's coexistence can be developed here. we want to promote mutual understanding between young people and the multicultural diversity which is our wealth in europe. we also want to promote systems of support for youth organisations and support civil society organisations in the youth field and youth cohesion beyond european borders. we have negotiated a budget of 885 million euros for this. as rapporteur, i proposed that we should present minimum budgets for the following five lines of action: youth for europe the classic youth exchange will receive 30% of the funding. the european voluntary service is a non-profit-making activity in a country other than the country of residence, intended to last for a minimum of two months and a maximum of 12 months. this action should account for at least 23% of the appropriations. 'youth for the world' is a new line of action which aims to promote understanding for other peoples in a spirit of openness. this is very important on different levels. the commission has already proposed that the appropriations for the programme be increased by 6% of the total. the 'youth support systems' should receive at least 15%. the european youth forum and the networking of youth organisations and those working in this field which it promotes are mentioned here. the support for european cooperation in the youth field is to receive 4% of the appropriations. this would amount to a total allocation of 76% of the lines of action, which gives the commission sufficient flexibility to take further action as required. it's a good approach to face the challenges. we have funds to support the special action 'european youth week'. we want the european youth pact, which was concluded by the council in 2005, to be brought to life. it is not right that we should stand by while riots break out among young people and young people in the european union are without work, without prospects. we must ensure that young people have a perspective and we want member states to support these actions very strongly. we can't solve this problem alone. that is why i am calling on the member states to get involved. i recommend that the house approve the compromise reached and adopt the common position without amendments.
member of the commission. mr president, it is not very often that we feel such a strong consensus as we do now. i should like to express my gratitude to those who made it possible, as it is not automatic. i am sure that this consensus makes it probable that in the coming weeks we will be able to adopt, in the full sense of the legal term, the youth in action programme. i should especially like to thank mrs gröner, the rapporteur for the programme, as well as the committee on culture and education, which dealt with matters in a very constructive manner during the procedure. i extend my thanks to the committee and its chairman, mr sifunakis, for their support. this consensus and progress in the work will allow full continuity between the current youth programme and the next one, so that there will be no interruption. this is a very different case from the previous one seven years ago, when there was a significant suspension in the youth programme for several months. the new programme is a partial but important response to the union’s priorities: citizenship, growth and peace. firstly, in terms of citizenship, it will enable young europeans to affirm themselves as supportive, responsible, active and tolerant citizens in pluralist societies. getting young people more involved in the field and the life of local, national and european communities and fostering active citizenship represents an important challenge for our societies. there is also a need to enhance young people’s awareness of the fact that they belong to europe and to develop their sense of european citizenship. secondly, it is equally necessary to respond to the aspirations of young people by providing them with the opportunity to enrich their education and training on a less formal level. non-formal educational activities deserve to be supported and recognised at european level because they contribute to european growth. that is why i am very happy that we will have more space for voluntary service in europe. lastly, young people’s willingness to develop new relations between young europeans and young people all over the world, their concern for mutual understanding, a spirit of tolerance and openness are important contributions towards world peace. progress in the negotiations on this programme was subject to the agreement on the financial perspectives last may. following the adoption of this budgetary framework and the decision to allocate eur 885 million, at current prices, to the youth in action programme, the institutions have shown their capacity to react quickly and constructively to have a new programme adopted without any further delay. i believe that is a very strong message to young people sent by the european institutions today.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the recommendation on the common position contains a number of parliament's amendments at first reading. the budget for the 'youth in action' programme is, as mrs gröner has already said, €885 million for the period 2007-13. the interinstitutional agreement on the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 is the basis. i would like to remind you, however, that the commission's original proposal provided for eur 913 million. the european parliament has called for an increase to eur 1.1 billion. we have now reached 885 million in the common position. it is not what we wanted, but it gives us certainty for the next few years, and it is good that we can adopt it today or tomorrow. the main target group for 'youth in action' is the 15-28 age group. some actions are also open to people aged 13 or 30. my group welcomes the fact that the european parliament's initiative has allowed the common position to highlight important issues such as the participation of young people in democratic life, the promotion of fundamental values such as human dignity, human rights, tolerance, non-discrimination, adequate insurance cover for participants - a very important point - the european youth weeks, seminars and structured dialogues between young people, exchanges for young people in europe and neighbouring countries and, last but not least, the financial support of the european youth forum with eur 2 million. i would like to thank mrs gröner and say that we hope that the council's common position will be adopted by parliament tomorrow without amendment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank lissy gröner for her work on this report. we are all convinced that europe should be an opportunity for young people, that these young people should be able to move freely in europe, broaden their horizons, learn several languages, improve their education, promote their education and, overall, become responsible and responsible people in the open european society. but of course it is also about creating acceptance of europe, especially among young people. we must be aware that it is the young people who are to build europe and develop it in the future, that is to say, it is above all a matter of them finding out for themselves what their goals are for the future of europe. without other policies, this task of improving opportunities for young people will not succeed. economic policy is central here, as are education and social policy and, of course, the lisbon strategy issues, as mentioned earlier. i would very much like to see this policy area valued and not neglected, because the future of europe depends on young people.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. the new lifelong learning programme should be an adequate response to the current needs of the lisbon process. education - we always say this, everyone says this - is the starting point of our countries' joint efforts to excel in the competition of globalisation. unfortunately, the council's reduction of the overall budget has also led to cuts in this multiannual programme. the commissioner is not responsible for the cuts. he fought us for more. unfortunately, the countries did not want that. we had at the end set aside 14.37 billion for seven years, and after our negotiations we are still entitled to exactly 6.97 billion in the financial perspective. i would like to thank all the members for the fact that we have successfully fought together for an additional increase of 800 million euro in the initial financial perspective for this programme. so much for the lofty goals and the hard landing on earth. the lifelong learning programme builds on, develops and synergies with the socrates and leonardo programmes. we have learned from the previous programmes and our respective national agencies have brought to us the problems they have had with the programmes and they have all been taken into account. the lifelong learning programme includes the comenius school programme, the erasmus higher education programme, the leonardo vocational training programme, the grundvigh adult education programme, the jean monnet activities to promote european integration and cross-cutting measures. i have insisted that more money be spent on comenius than was originally planned by the commission, since i believe that it is the basis for all other educational programmes. i also attached importance to enhanced cooperation in border regions through a new 'comenius region'. the programme also places a new emphasis on student mobility in upper secondary education. a year at another school in the eu is an invaluable experience! we have also taken into account the needs of migrant children in terms of schooling. leonardo will promote more worker mobility and partnerships, which were previously only possible under erasmus. the erasmus programme for higher education will increase the amount of scholarships to eur 200 per month, as the previous funding was too much for dying and too little for living. we could not maintain our original proposal of 300 euros, as the number of participants would then have to be drastically reduced. erasmus also includes preparatory language courses and mobility support. the grundvigh programme has been improved in terms of its financial resources and individual exchanges have recently been made possible under this programme. the programme is designed to respond to the current labour market situation and demographics. parliament has also made provision for special funding for two other institutions, the college of europe in bruges, the european institute of higher education in florence, the institute of public administration in maastricht and the european academy of law in trier: the european agency for the development of special educational aids in middelfart and the centre international de la formation européenne in nice. i very much welcome the fact that participation in these programmes is, as before, open to all eea member states, switzerland and turkey, and that the western balkan countries are now being invited to participate. i would also like to emphasize in this context that it is high time that visa facilitation for south-eastern europe finally took shape. in summary, the lifelong learning programme will help to improve education and training programmes in the eu, enhance mobility, support partnerships and interregional cooperation, organise the exchange of best practice and promote language learning. this programme helps to understand the european union better, to facilitate coexistence within the union and to practice intercultural dialogue and tolerance. it is the best communication strategy in the eu.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank mrs pack, in her capacity as first lady, for her excellent work on this report. it has already been mentioned that she is one of the most experienced education policy-makers in this house. this is also reflected in the emphasis and emphasis it has placed on this report. europe is indeed a continent with a shortage of raw materials. it is all the more important that we develop the potential of our people. it's amazing how much china and india are growing, for example, and how many graduates they're producing every year. if europe is to continue to have a chance in the global economy, we must do more for education, research and development. the european budget is not, in my view, really a budget for the future. we are still investing too much in the traditional agricultural policy and too little in education, development and research. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm very disappointed in that. i really wish i had more. our aim should be to enable every student in europe to participate in the erasmus programme. this is a great opportunity for young people. it is a real european experience to be able to study in the different member states. the lessons learned there will benefit you throughout your life and will naturally carry over into your circle of friends and acquaintances as well as into your working life. this is why these are very valuable experiences both individually and socially. the fact that it is now 200 euros is better than 150, but it is not really what you need in an offensive education policy. i think it is right, however, that mrs pack said that we must start with the young and invest more in them. all the studies show that. this is why it is right to spend more on comenius within lifelong learning.
member of the commission. mr president, not more than half a year ago, i was here speaking on the same programme, asking for a quick agreement. at that time the proposal had a different title: ‘citizens for europe’. now, after half a year we are here, very close to the final decisions with the new title, ‘europe for citizens’, coming from your input; but i think this was a remarkable shift, both in consensus but also in the readiness top progress towards finalisation. this programme is very important for citizens and civic society organisations. i am very satisfied with the quality and intensity of negotiations between institutions that have taken place on the programme. i would like especially and sincerely to thank the committee on culture for its efforts to accelerate the procedure, and the rapporteur, mr takkula, for his excellent work and cooperation. those steps in the interinstitutional procedures were accompanied by informal trilateral meetings. they resulted in a compromise acceptable to all three institutions in the form of four amendments on which you will vote on tomorrow. concerning the budget, we agreed to allocate an amount of eur 190 million at 2004 prices, which means eur 215 million at current prices. this is less than the commission’s original proposal but it still enables us to retain the structure of the programme, only reducing the number of outputs. i would like once more to express my regrets about the introduction by the council of a supplementary step to the comitology procedure. this will slow down the selection procedure for certain categories of projects. however, with a view to reaching a quick agreement, the commission accepted the position taken by the council and supported by you. today you are envisaging adopting four amendments: two of them concern the budget breakdown between different actions; one is technical and will accelerate the entry into force of the programme; and the last one adds the promotion of tolerance to the objectives of the programme. that is fully in line with the programme’s philosophy. let me repeat that the commission fully supports the agreed compromise and therefore encourages parliament to adopt those four amendments. if you adopt them, the council has committed itself rapidly to adopt the whole agreed text and the programme should then be able to enter into force by 1 january 2007. i can assure you that once the programme is adopted the commission will take all necessary steps to implement it as efficiently and as effectively as possible. indeed, my services are already actively preparing its entry into force. we will work in close cooperation with the programme committee and in close dialogue with the organisations involved in this programme. i would like to finish by repeating what mr takkula said, i.e. that culture forms the basis for our societies, which is why we defined the legal base for this programme in combination with the culture-related article 151 of the treaty. it was the subject of many discussions, but i believe it is the right proposal and the right line to take, for future culture and citizenship to go hand in hand towards responsibility on all levels of our public and private engagement in our lives, as well as in the spheres of enlargement and the future of our union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr takkula, for this very good report on a europe for citizens. even though the total amount has now been reduced to eur 190 million - originally eur 235 million jointly provided for by parliament and the commission - we have to make do with this amount because the council had no vision. we support the rapporteur's two amendments, which have a reduction of 2 percentage points on the one hand and an increase of 2 percentage points on the other. we also welcome the fact that the new action 4 will commemorate the crimes of both the nazi and stalinist regimes in the context of memorials. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament points out that its resolution of 5 april 2006 mentions both conferences and seminars. bilateral seminars, workshops and conferences are an essential part of the partnership, with a view to training programmes and staff, and should be included in the promotion alongside multilateral conferences. the parliament also considered that the commission should treat municipal and civil society applicants equally in procurement procedures. the latter is intended to prevent the commission from requiring additional requirements, such as guarantees and special bank guarantees, which are very difficult and impossible for too many civil society organisations, as planned.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr hannu takkula. i am very pleased that the name of the programme, which was originally 'citizens for europe', has been changed to 'europe for citizens'. this means that europe also has a debt of generosity and must reach out to its citizens. it is about reaching out to citizens, involving them, meeting them on the ground, taking them seriously, listening to their interests and winning them over to europe and the debates on europe's future. the partnership of cities is a good way to contribute to this. but also the general debate on the european globalisation blues and the question: 'how do we find a balance between too much neoliberalism on the one hand and too much statism or too much protectionism on the other?' will be part of the debates in this programme. i would like to mention one more point, namely the inclusion of the extermination camps - whether stalinist or nazi - in this programme. i think it is politically correct to continue to elaborate the history of this particular european totalitarianism. he has destroyed europe and brought much misery to the whole world. the lessons to be learned from this and the building of a truly open democratic europe remain our task for the future. this programme is intended to contribute to this.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr schlyter, for his intensive work on this proposal, which has enabled us to reach agreement with the council at first reading. this is an important directive. the aim is to restrict the placing on the market and use of perfluorinated octansulfonates (pfos) and related substances. these substances are persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic. they have the potential to lead to unacceptable risks to human health and the state of the environment. the proposed directive is based on targeted risk assessments and impact assessments of possible measures. extensive consultation with all concerned parties was included. the directive prohibits in principle the placing on the market and use of pfos and related substances, with very limited exceptions. derogations are provided for essential uses in small quantities which, according to the opinion of the scientific committee on health and environmental risks of the commission, do not pose unacceptable risks. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the use of biofuels in the production of biofuels is not restricted to the production of biofuels. the proposed directive not only protects human health and the environment but will also strengthen the internal market by introducing harmonised rules for the marketing and use of pfos and related substances throughout the community. with regard to the derogations contained in the proposal, i agree that the use of pfos and related substances in photoresists, photographic materials, hexavalent chromium and other metal galvanisation and hydraulic fluids should continue to be allowed because the risks associated with these uses are acceptable, because there are no equivalent alternatives and because it is not certain that the toxicological profiles of possible alternatives are more favourable. as regards fire-fighting foams, i can agree that the placing on the market and use of new fire-fighting foams should be prohibited and that a period of 54 months should be allowed for the continued use of existing stocks. on the other hand, i do not want to support at this stage an extension of the proposed restrictions to other perfluorinated alkyl compounds such as pfoa, as this is premature in the absence of a completed risk assessment and sufficient knowledge of current uses and alternatives, but we can return to this subject. in conclusion, i would like to say that the process of change has benefited greatly from the close cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission. the commission can therefore agree to all the compromise proposals proposed by the rapporteur, mr schlyter.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr carl schlyter, for his excellent cooperation. it's well known that you and i don't always agree. but the fact that we will be voting tomorrow for a compromise which will allow for an agreement at first reading is a welcome one! i also welcome the fact that the compromise does not take into account some of the demands made by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, such as the early inclusion of pfoa without a prior risk assessment. the toxicity of pfos is unquestioned and is not questioned by industry. finally, it was the industry itself that has abandoned the use of pfos in particularly critical applications such as consumer goods. however, in some sectors at the upper end of the value chain, such as aerospace and semiconductor, the use of pfos is currently unavoidable. a ban on pfos or a strictly limited time-limited exemption would take away planning certainty from some high-tech industries. the commission has already made provision in its proposal for sensible derogations which must be maintained as long as there is no adequate substitute. the problem with pfos is not the use of the substance in these industries, but rather the fact that the substance is still in old textiles such as carpets or clothing and from there it is released into the environment. let me also say a few final words on the eu's substance policy in view of the upcoming reach debate. the eu chemicals legislation must strike a balance between the socioeconomically sound use of certain substances and high environmental standards. exceptions must be possible, as in the case of pfos, whenever there are no adequate alternatives. the aim of chemicals policy must be the safe, risk-based handling of chemicals, not the ideological policy of blanket bans. i hope, commissioner, that you will continue to advocate a sensible chemicals policy in the future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to join the rapporteur in thanking him. ladies and gentlemen, imagine that you are the mother or father of a small child and the health department in your district says that you cannot use the drinking water that you have been drinking for months, for years, for the preparation of infant formula and for the children because it contains very high concentrations of pfos! or imagine that you are the mayor of a medium-sized city and you have to spend several million euros of public funds, money from taxpayers and tollpayers, to make the drinking water supply free of pfos again! then you'd certainly have a bigger problem. this is what happened a few weeks ago in my constituency, south west wales. we have a serious problem with pfos, and it has no local causes, but we have found that the trail of this massive pollution leads to other european countries - probably to belgium and the netherlands. it is therefore very likely that - if you look a little closer - many other regions of europe will also have problems for parents and local politicians like the ones that exist at home at the moment. we must therefore now determine the exact cause in this particular case and if there have been any illegal transfers, we must investigate. but we also have to tackle the root of the problem, because the concentration is particularly high in this case. but the substance is also detected in antarctica and at the source of the rhine, where there is no industry yet. you have to look very closely. i am therefore pleased that we have succeeded in clarifying and improving the commission's proposal and that we have removed some exceptions which were not justified, such as the exception for fire-fighting foams for which there are substitutes. we have now reached a good compromise and should accept it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i should like to thank mr schlyter for his very thoughtful report. pfos, a halogenated hydrocarbon, is a toxic substance to humans that is both carcinogenic and herbicide-damaging. there are no scientific limit values for this category of substances, only empirical threshold values. these substances are not biodegradable, they are fat soluble and they last, once produced, practically forever. man, too, can hardly excrete them once they have been ingested. pfoa is very likely to have a very similar or identical effect from a medical and toxicological point of view, although the scientific data are not yet conclusive. i think that is where reach will come in, and the substitution principle will play a crucial role, although i personally have always had reservations. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i am appalled by the results of measurements of these chemicals in both marine and river fish. we are now going beyond the original proposal of the commission and the council with good reason and good conscience. the threshold is being lowered massively by almost two tenths. the exemptions for chromium plating have been significantly reduced. the exception for fire extinguishers has been deleted in a sensible way, since unlimited quantities can be released into the environment. the exception for closed systems has been deleted, as it is difficult to prove leakage. i would like to thank you for the good cooperation and, above all, for the speed with which we worked out a workable compromise within three months.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs muscardini, and the committee on international trade for the excellent work that they have done on this important issue. the european union is a major exporter worldwide and this leaves us exposed to trade defence actions by third countries. when such actions are taken in compliance with wto rules, we cannot and should not complain, and we do not. however, that is not always the case and these actions can easily become a serious and unjustified impediment to our legitimate market access opportunities. therefore, we must closely monitor third-country actions against our exports and intervene to minimise the negative impact of such actions on our companies. and we should certainly be vigilant. whenever possible we favour the diplomatic route, which is the quicker and the most efficient way to solve those issues when we have partners who wish to solve them. but when diplomacy fails, we do not hesitate to resort to wto panels, as it is our right to do. both the diplomatic and the litigation approaches have met with notable successes. take, for example, the indian cases mentioned in the report. diplomacy has resulted in the removal of no fewer than 12 measures. we also hope for significant success on the agricultural products cases that you have identified. it is well known that the united states is a recurrent problem for us in this context. it is pro-free trade, but its use of the trade defence instrument is seen by many as unreasonable on certain issues. this has been particularly marked in the steel sector, where we have been arguing against certain practices for years on a large number of their dumping and subsidy measures. we have had a considerable success in geneva but, frankly, it is a long hard slog even getting them to implement the remedies to the disputes which they have lost. we cannot solve everything through diplomacy or litigation. this is why we welcome your support for the proposals we have tabled in the doha round to strengthen the rules and the disciplines governing the use of anti-dumping and countervailing measures. the round is suspended, something i deeply deplore and regret, but we are fighting hard to get it restarted. for trade defence this would allow us to seek improved disciplines along the lines of the eu practice in this field, making it more difficult for countries to abuse the system, which i am afraid some are only too prepared to do. we need tightened disciplines in the anti-dumping system. we need greater transparency in the operation of trade defence instruments. we need less arbitrariness on the part of governments. such behaviour simply discredits the rules. it brings the system into disrepute and it does not reflect credit on the multilateral trade system and its principal institution, the wto. we agree with you that the dispute settlement mechanism is an essential feature of the wto system, which needs protecting, but we are working hard to improve it so that faster remedies can be achieved. we will take the opportunity of any bilateral trade agreement with third countries to ensure that our partner countries take on specific obligations on the fair use of trade defence instruments. this is not an alternative to strengthening and improving the rules at the wto. on the contrary, it underpins that. it is a way of getting insurance in place, so that we can use all available methods to bring reason and discipline to the operation of these instruments. this would particularly apply for those countries that abuse them the most. good practices are as important as good rules. that is why the commission’s departments devote a great deal of time and resources to providing technical assistance to third countries that become new users of trade defence instruments. our aim is that they should apply them in a fair and balanced manner and in accordance with our own high standards. these efforts seem to bear fruit. the end of 2005 saw a welcome change from the trend of previous years, with a significant fall in the number of trade defence cases initiated against community exporters, from 33 in 2004 to 19 in 2005. market access, including a fair and proper implementation of wto trade defence instruments by our trading partners, features high on our priority list and we will continue to take any steps required to ensure that our exports are not unduly penalised. of course it is difficult to follow each and every case with our current resources and i would certainly like to do more for our exporters, in particular small and medium-sized companies, which often have little experience in this area. the eu must remain an example that others can follow. as the report recalls, we are viewed as a moderate user of trade defence instruments. that reputation is deserved and that must remain so. it is in that spirit that i recently launched a reflection process on how europe’s trade defence instruments such as the anti-dumping instrument operate in the modern global economy. a broad public consultation will take place early in 2007, based on a green paper expected in the coming months. this consultation will allow the commission to draw on a wide range of views and identify whether there is scope to improve our rules and practices further. our trade defence instruments can make an important contribution to ensuring both free and fair trade, thereby stimulating our competitiveness. this will involve strong and close cooperation with all stakeholders, including member states and industry, and, i would add, the support and involvement of the european parliament.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to congratulate mrs muscardini on the success of this report. free access to foreign markets is of vital importance to many european companies. this free access is not available in many cases today. in these cases, third countries are simply hindering european companies' access to the market in breach of the treaty or in contravention of wto rules. third countries are cleverly exploiting the whole range of tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade to their advantage and to our disadvantage. the competitiveness of the european economy and thus the labour market in the european union is suffering enormously from these difficulties. this is not acceptable behaviour on the part of some of our trading partners. the commissioner said that the european union cannot allow other countries to treat us in this way. all world trading partners must abide by the rules. we as the european union cannot do the same to third countries. we too must abide by all the rules in order to be able to deal with the rule breakers in a credible and open way. fair and free world trade is only possible if there is a set of rules that is binding and that is really adhered to by all. so what can be done? i call on the commission to do everything possible to ensure that we europeans abide by the rules. i call on the commission to take action to protect our companies when it is found that the rules are not being respected by individual trading partners. i would ask the commission to make consistent use of the existing or improved dispute settlement procedure if, in specific cases, there is no amicable settlement at short notice. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. only if everyone really follows the rules can people benefit in the long term from the benefits of world trade.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european community was born out of the search for peace and stability. peace and stability remain a strength for the development of the union and it is very important that these themes are also addressed. the european parliament has a special responsibility for dealing with the principles of peace and stability. the spanish prime minister informed the european council on 23 and 24 march of the declaration by the terrorist organisation eta of a permanent ceasefire. the council then welcomed the explanations of the spanish prime minister. the council has not dealt with the matter since then and is maintaining its position. security is a particularly topical issue, one which affects all europeans. the presidency welcomes all the measures taken to ensure that eta abandons its terrorist methods and reaches a peaceful solution within the framework of the democratic institutions of the spanish state. as we all know in this chamber, the union is actively working to root out terrorism and its causes. the council reiterates its support for the actions taken and ongoing by the member states to combat terrorism in accordance with the rule of law.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, terrorism represents one of the worst imaginable threats to democratic societies. terrorist attacks not only endanger security but constitute an assault on the fundamental values of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the commission is strongly committed to the fight against terrorism and intends to continue working for the prevention of terrorism and the protection of our citizens and infrastructures by bringing terrorists to justice and by responding adequately to terrorist attacks in order to save as many innocent lives as possible. the specific measures that will be taken at european level are clearly outlined in the european counter-terrorist strategy and in the action plan on combating terrorism. the commission is obviously deeply concerned at the dramatic scale of eta’s terrorism in spain; four decades of terrorist activity have seen more than 800 assassinations and other attacks, with economic extortion and blackmail becoming common practice. law-abiding citizens have learned to live in fear; many have been permanently threatened in their daily lives. the serious crime committed yesterday in the south of france – probably by eta, according to the french prosecutor – is a source of concern. the attitude of spanish society during all these years has been exemplary; indeed, its tenacity and conviction in combating terrorism through respect for democracy and the rule of law has paid off, leading to the increasing weakness of eta. the commission, once again, pays tribute to all the victims of eta’s terrorist attacks and recalls the importance of helping them and helping to make good damages suffered. in these circumstances, the commission recalls the statement made in its presence by the european council in march 2006, welcoming the report of the spanish prime minister on the announcement of a permanent ceasefire by terrorist group eta. the commission also recalls the statement made by the president of the european commission on the announcement by the spanish prime minister on the launch of a dialogue with eta, sharing the hopes of all those who look to a future in which spain is free from the scourge of terrorism. the commission is most hopeful that those announcements will result in the total disarmament and dissolution of the terrorist group. at the same time, the commission is aware of the complexity of the initiative, as well as the extreme sensitivity of the matter, but is convinced that spain, through all its democratic institutions, will find the right path that will bring an end to eta’s terrorism and restore peace, with full respect for the principles of democracy and the rule of law. we shall not be divided today, since we shall not forget that the target of this debate is a common enemy of spain and of europe: terrorism. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is one of the noblest tasks of political action to work for peace. we all want peace in the world, in europe, in spain. but there is often disagreement about how to achieve this. it is the same today. this debate is not about partisan tactics and advantages, but about principles and fundamental beliefs. i therefore ask all of us to conduct this debate with great respect and not to deny each other the goodwill that underpins our convictions. we in the epp-ed group ask: how can we trust eta and batasuna to want peace if they do not say a word of regret, apology and request for forgiveness to the families of the over 800 people they murdered? until that happens, we have to expect them to start killing again if they don't achieve their goals in negotiations. today we extend our sympathy, our respect and our solidarity to the victims of the terror and violence perpetrated by eta and batasuna. i see our esteemed colleague, barbara dührkop dührkop, whose husband was assassinated in 1984 as leader of the socialist party of the basque country. our colleague carlos iturgaiz has been the target of several assassination attempts and seven of his political friends from the partido popular in the basque country have been killed. we owe it to the victims to see the murderers punished. this is in accordance with the guidelines and principles of our legal order. the process of reconciliation, if it is to be credible, must begin between perpetrators and victims, including their descendants. we call on eta and batasuna to offer a sign of reconciliation and apology to the victims of their crimes. we remind you that eta and batasuna are on the european union's list of terrorist organisations. they didn't turn in their weapons. these weapons remain a threat to the constitutional order of spain, but also of france and thus of the whole of europe. the commissioner reminded us of what happened in nimes the day before yesterday. a woman and two children have been taken hostage and the french authorities have officially confirmed that this is an armed robbery by eta. this means that weapons will remain a means of political conflict. we must ask ourselves what the aim of eta and batasuna is. the euronews of 24 october published the statement of a senior representative of eta and batasuna. it says that it does not want to give up its arms until the basque country, as it is called there, has its independence. we, the members of parliament, have received a letter from batasuna. it says in english: regarding the negotiation between eta and the spanish and french states it will be them who decide all about the demilitarization of the conflict. this is a bad sign, because if the negotiations fail, the blame will already be placed on the spanish and french governments. we, the epp-ed group, say that we want dialogue. spain and france are free, democratic states. there are no dictatorships, no tyrannies, against which one can express oneself by violence. no, they are free states, and in free and democratic states, democratic dialogue and not violence prevails. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left to its own devices. it is not just the resolution of our spanish friends in the partido popular, it is the joint resolution of our group, and we stand in solidarity with it and commemorate the victims in this debate today. (applause from the right)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the problem of terrorism in spain is not a domestic problem, it is a european problem. terrorism is an attack on our values. terrorism is always an attack on everything we defend in this parliament on the basis of our common european convictions. no terror is justified! we are all called upon to find ways out of this terror, because we are all - if it is our values we are defending - victims of this terror every time a terrorist attack occurs. mr poettering, you have thankfully referred to my friend barbara dührkop dührkop, who is a victim. today, in this chamber, there are many people from the basque country who have been and are victims because they have lost loved ones or because they have been harmed physically and mentally. these people are here because they say yes to the path of dialogue, because only through dialogue will we be able to end the spiral of violence. i admire the men and women who have had to suffer the deep suffering that these victims have suffered, and who still say: no more deaths, no more violence, end of the spiral! this moral force must be the driving force to find a solution to the problems of violence, not only in the basque country, but everywhere. that is why we are discussing it today as a european problem. i admire the courage of the spanish government in taking this path, which is fraught with risks, a path which is controversial. it is a path best described by a quote i would like to read to you: "for peace and for its rights we will not close our doors, but on the contrary we will open our doors to hope, to forgiveness and to generosity and for peace we will do our best to make it permanent with the help and hope of all". (applause from the audience) that's a wonderful phrase to describe what it's all about. it is a phrase used by the spanish prime minister, who sent his state secretaries to negotiate with eta. it is a phrase that was said by the spanish prime minister josé maría aznar in 1998. this is the spirit in which we could all come together to solve this problem of violence, because what the spanish government is doing today is in the tradition of all its predecessor governments. (applause from the centre) it would therefore be good if we could reach a joint resolution. i do not always agree with mr aznar, and you will not be surprised to hear that, but on this point he was right, ladies and gentlemen of the ppe-de group and the ppe, he was the leader of your party. it is in this spirit that we can say together: yes, we are ready to find a solution for this fundamental right and through dialogue. our former colleagues, mr president, who had to deal with terrorism, always knew the risks. when our colleagues from this house, john hume and david trimble, set out together, they also knew that it was a risky path and that there was no guarantee of success. the armed robbery in france yesterday, which we strongly condemn, shows that if you want to get out of the spiral of violence, there is always the risk that someone will try to block that way out of the dead end by using violence. but you can't let that stop you, because what's the alternative? to remain in the dead end is to perpetuate the violence. the dialogue that has been launched is therefore a great opportunity and i ask you all: let us decide on this dialogue together on a common platform of all the political groups! (applause from the left)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i should like to begin by making a comment on russian president putin, who has played a prominent role in mr vanhanen's speeches and in your speech, mr president of the commission. what an impressive evening you must have had with him! i hear and read the reports, and i think the meeting with president putin was a great thing. i like mr putin's openness. i have no problem with that, nor does my group. i want to start by saying this: we are honoured by mr putin's remarks on the speech by our president, josep borrell fontelles. it shows he was at least listening. we never know if everyone is listening, but putin seems to have been listening. we reject, however, any comments he may have made on this speech if they are of a harmful nature, because the president of this parliament speaks for all members of this parliament and, mr president, we thank you for your remarks! (applause from the centre) secondly, it is good that vladimir putin speaks about his views on italy. it is good that vladimir putin is talking about what he has to criticize in spain. i think that is good, because european society is an open society! in our society, everyone can criticize what they want! this is what clearly distinguishes our society from russian society, because not everyone can criticize what they want! (applause from the centre) that is why an open exchange of views with the russian president is fruitful. that is why we say that what is happening in chechnya is not correct and that human rights violations and the humiliation of people must be condemned. by the way, russian people, including soldiers of the russian army, are treated undignified there. of course it is quite clear - we will express this in the resolution on the death of mrs politkovskaya - that one cannot speak of a functioning democracy if journalists have to fear for their lives when they talk about abuses in their country. it's perfectly clear! therefore, our open exchange of views with vladimir putin and all russian politicians whom we meet is part of our understanding of dealing with partners. we also criticize what is happening in the united states. we take for granted the right to criticize what is happening in other parts of the world, just as we can be criticized. i therefore criticise the fact that the speeches by mr vanhanen and the president of the commission contain many good points. that all sounded great! you know that, and i say that in every speech i give in response to your remarks: great! that's great. if all that you are telling us here is put into practice, then europe will really become an eldorado of technology, and we will become an eldorado of education and training. we will be the knowledge-based society of the 21st century, and for my part, the 22nd century. that's great. keep going! but, boys, you've got to deliver at some point! so, the announcements: great! but this does not concern you alone, least of all the president of the commission, who is making the right proposals and is trying to work towards these objectives. but you in the council, you, mr vanhanen, and the heads of state and government, you must put into practice what you say about energy policy in your national energy plans! (applause from the centre) and, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not want to become dependent on russian energy, we must put an end to the wasteful energy economy in europe, in the united states and in the industrialized countries! if you want to limit the climate catastrophe, you have to reduce co2 emissions! but this cannot be done with russian natural gas, but with more energy efficiency, with more renewable energy, with power plants, with combined heat and power, with power plants that have the highest efficiency. and we need more technology for that, by the way. the circle is now complete: we are back to the lisbon process. because if we want to have technology, we have to invest in the minds of our people, in the universities. it's all right! let's just go over this again and again. it's the same thing over and over again. every time the same announcements and every time the same speech from me. it's not new. i've had it altered a few times. but i don't want to be bored, not even with my own speeches. i therefore ask you to put the announcements in the commission and in the council into action. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it may be difficult to reconcile european energy security with our european core values. but do we want to fail? in russia, contract killings are as common as the repression of non-governmental organizations and the curtailment of basic democratic rights. the yukos case, the arrest of khodorkovsky and lebedev, the war in chechnya - in terms of energy policy and human rights - remain current examples of the arbitrariness of the putin government. the murder of anna politkovskaya once again tragically demonstrates that russia is second only to colombia in crimes against critical journalists. russia is currently at a crossroads between small steps towards democracy and authoritarian structures. criticism is no longer enough. energy policy and human rights must be negotiated together and not played off against each other. there are no reliable guarantees of energy security, according to putin. we must nevertheless ensure that our european values are upheld.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in lahti an important step was taken in energy policy, but in my view it was not a milestone. perhaps it would be wiser not to throw ourselves around in european politics with big words and then disappoint people when we fail to achieve anything. i think it is wiser to take the advice of commission president barroso to set up feasible projects and work them out piece by piece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the crisis. firstly, the issue of security of supply has been placed at the heart of energy policy and has contributed to the fact that we may also refrain in this parliament - i hope - from discussing energy policy only from the point of view of climate policy. the security of supply is of high priority. at the latest since the developments in ukraine, since it became clear that russia, that president putin uses energy policy as a political tool, we are all a bit more willing - and we felt a lot of this in lahti - to take this issue more seriously. not only is there talk, but obviously a lot has changed in russia. anyone who takes putin seriously - and we must - must confront these positions. we are also more likely to be taken seriously if we act together. in this respect, lahti was a success because it was a united voice. the second step would be to promote more european competence in the field of energy policy. thirdly, we must be more consistent in what we do in the individual case. security of supply is about the foreign policy aspect, but it's also about empowering those industries that are doing it. we must look more closely at whether regulations, regulations and controls really guarantee security of supply or create uncertainty. those who negotiate for us, those who buy in the world, have to invest, and investments are only made by companies if there is a bit of reliability. last but not least, the diversity of energy sources is also part of this. it would be foolish to rule out nuclear power. it would be a disservice to the security of supply.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is true: we need a partnership with russia, and a community of values would be nice. but what is the reality? in russia, the vertical of power is well organised, the duma is domesticated, governors are appointed, not elected, freedom of the press is restricted, the work of non-governmental organisations, including political foundations for democracy and human rights, is becoming increasingly difficult. in this respect, there can be no common values with the russian government at the moment, perhaps with the people, but that was not the case in lahti. that is why, mr vanhanen, president barroso is right when he says: let us agree on certain principles for stable relations: transparency, legal certainty, treatment of nationals, reciprocity in opening up and accessing markets. we can build on this a partnership and cooperation agreement and at the same time hope and work towards the possibility of one day also achieving a strategic partnership with russia based on shared values. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think you've said all that's necessary. the president shall be responsible for the interpretation of the rules of procedure, in particular as regards the order and conduct of votes. i have the impression that you have conducted the vote very properly. but my political experience also teaches me one thing: we are all politicians, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the epp-ed group, are all politicians: if you cannot make any progress politically, you must abide by the rules of procedure. we know that, but i ask you, mr president, to vote now. (applause from the left)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are in a difficult situation and we had a very worthy debate this morning. now we all have to take a step. i want to say specifically: the integrity of the president of the european parliament is not in question. (applause from the centre) having said that, i also ask that we now find a procedure that will lead us to a decision. it would have been right if the first vote had been by hand signals. i assumed that you had already voted electronically because you thought the results were close, but the normal procedure would have been to vote by hand signals. then, unfortunately, this voting procedure has led some colleagues to vote differently from what they intended. the question then arises whether the joint text agreed by the political groups has been properly drawn up and whether the translations are available. all of this combined is a bunch of problems. i would therefore appeal to your good will to repeat the votes and then to vote on the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the groups. then this parliament has spoken, and then the political will of this parliament becomes clear. i ask you to show that goodwill now. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the german free democrats did not vote on resolution b6-0527/2006. the motion for a resolution is headed 'resolution of the european parliament on the peace process in spain'. we consider this a matter for national settlement. we believe that the european union should not concern itself with matters for which it has no competence. in this context we criticise in particular paragraph 3 of the resolution, which calls on the council and the commission to take appropriate action. we believe that this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. that is why we did not take part in the vote.
on behalf of the whole of the european parliament, i would now like to welcome igor dodon, minister of economy and trade of the republic of moldova, as the representative of the government of the republic of moldova, and a delegation from the parliament of the republic of moldova to the podium. (applause from the centre) the moldovan delegation will take part in our meeting today and tomorrow, as well as in the meeting with the european parliament delegation in the eu-moldova parliamentary cooperation committee. i am glad you are here and i hope that the discussion will be of interest to you.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on moldova (transnistria) and georgia (south ossetia).
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not when it comes to security and stability in a country or region, the overriding premise is that all parties involved, who have different interests, must not take steps that lead to escalation. and if the moldovan constitution does not provide for a referendum, then of course it is not possible to recognize a referendum that has been held. it's perfectly clear. transnistria has always been part of the republic of moldova. the demand to our russian partners, with whom we have not so bad relations in themselves, to withdraw russian troops from the area is therefore absolutely justified. if we want to avoid escalation, we must not ban exports or imports, but promote trade and change. the approach adopted by the commission and the european union, namely that we insist on intensifying the 5+2 negotiations or even re-launching them, is the path we should not abandon. a fair partnership - and i mean the partnership with russia - also means that you can tell your partner straight to his face what you agree with and what you do not agree with. we have perhaps not always done this with the necessary rigor in the past, for reasons of the self-interest of the european union.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as a member of the eu-moldova parliamentary group, i would like to make a further statement on this problem and make it very clear that this is not a minority conflict! the republic of moldova has a society with open systems, both politically and socially, characterised by tolerance. if minority conflicts are being pushed forward, it is only to legitimize politically problematic support for a stalinist regime. that is highly doubtful. i would like to put that in the record of the russian government and president putin. the transnistrian conflict is a conflict between russia and the eu. i believe that peace can only be achieved if the troops are withdrawn. the commission and the council must therefore exert much more pressure on the russian government in this particular area. the moldavian conflict must not be sacrificed to energy relations with russia!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in nine and a half weeks, the republic of moldova would have become a member of the european union had it not been separated from romania by the hitler-stalin pact. that shows how close we are to the whole thing. georgia member state of the council of europe has been twice a victim of russian and soviet colonialism. once under the tsars and once when soviet troops in the 1920s stifled the spring of nations in the caucasus. today we are witnessing a post-colonial situation in which russia is not prepared to make up for what it did there as a colonial power or as the totalitarian soviet union. russia is pursuing a post-colonial policy of national dominance and resource extraction. here, conflicts between nationalities are either abused or, in some cases, artificially created. that's why there's only one answer. if there are conflicts anywhere, we must also be prepared - as vytautas landsbergis said - to be present with international or european peace structures, whether in transnistria, abkhazia and south ossetia or in chechnya, where international control of the situation must finally be established. if russia has an interest in transparency, then this is the right solution. but russia doesn't want transparency. russia still wants to dominate in the shadows. i therefore regret that this debate is taking place after the summit and not before, as we wanted. mr putin was only trying to create illusions in the spotlight of the summit, and now we are trying to put the pieces together in the shadow of the summit. i can only appeal to the council and the commission to finally find a clear, open and reasonable language towards russian policy which clearly incorporates human rights. one thing must be clear: russia understands only such a clear language. there is, as vytautas landsbergis said, not only material for a white paper on broken russian promises, but also for one on western self-deception.
president of the council. mr president, first of all, thank you for this very informative debate. we have been talking about relations between the european union and russia in this chamber since this morning, but the fact that the eu-russia relations were now also the main topic of the speeches of members of parliament illustrates the breadth of these relations. the european union and russia have the honour of being able to discuss all matters, including difficult issues and commitments made by russia, at these tables. the next good opportunity for these discussions will be in november, when the permanent partnership council meeting at foreign minister level and the eu-russia summit will take place at the end of november. these issues will certainly be discussed at the eu-ukraine summit in helsinki the day after tomorrow. as i said in my opening speech, the union's action on the question of moldova and transnistria is aimed specifically at being able to support and consolidate the unity of moldova. the european neighbourhood policy is a key instrument in this work. as part of this cooperation, we in the council are awaiting the commission's proposal for the opening of visa flexibility negotiations in the middle of this year. the last time that the georgian-russian relations were discussed yesterday in the cops committee was on the basis of the proposals of the special representative, with a view to finding new ways of best supporting a peaceful solution to this difficult situation. fortunately, we have positive signs of the opening of a dialogue between georgia and russia, as the foreign ministers of the two countries are due to meet in moscow in early november. it is a very positive start to get the conversation going again. the georgian-russian crisis - like many other crises around the world - is governed by the basic principle that the european union is committed to and able to promote a peaceful solution to crises in a number of ways, but that unless the parties themselves are committed to a peaceful solution, it cannot be imposed from outside.
member of the commission. mr president, that was a very interesting discussion on both subjects. i thank members for their comments, which we shall, of course, take into account as much as we can. i think parliament could enhance its efforts and thus complete and complement what we are doing concerning moldova, with its counterparts in the eu-moldova parliamentary cooperation committee. we need to continue to encourage moldova to press on with key reforms on democracy, the rule of law and human rights and to improve the business climate. we must help moldova to become more attractive for the population, even in transnistria. with regard to the question of macro-financial assistance, we have just prepared a package of eur 45 million that will be allocated to moldova, because it is highly important that we give them special assistance. let me say that since 1991 the whole assistance programme has amounted to some eur 230 million. our annual assistance budget has increased over the last few years and will increase further under the enpi. on visa facilitation for moldova, we are just working towards the proposals for negotiating directives and also for the readmission agreements. we have encouraged the member states to set up a joint visa application centre in chisinau. once established, this should be an effective facilitation mechanism for moldovan citizens, who would then no longer need to travel to neighbouring countries to apply for visas. let me also say that if there is a possibility of coming up with a mandate at the end of this year, then the visa fee would stay at eur 35 and not go up to eur 60, which would be very important for the very poor people of moldova. on georgia, we had a lengthy discussion with foreign minister lavrov. the most important thing is that both sides tone down their public rhetoric as a first step and then both sides try to come up with diplomatic dialogues –again, back to normal. the georgian leadership must avoid any actions that could heighten tension. that is what we told mr saakashvili. with the help of our special representatives and, of course, all of us, we hope that the situation will return to normal.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council is very concerned about the recent environmental disaster in côte d'ivoire involving the probo koala. as the president of the council, finland considers it very important that this regrettable case be thoroughly investigated. it once again brought the world's attention to the serious threats posed by waste shipments to developing countries. this is a problem that must be addressed with decisive action. the european union has indicated its readiness to assist, together with the united nations, in protecting human health and the environment where the impact of the case has been particularly severe. recent events in west africa have also reminded us of the importance of effectively implementing the agreements on the control of transboundary movements and treatment of hazardous waste. these include the basel convention and its 1995 amendment, the marpol convention on the prevention of marine pollution by ships and regional maritime protection agreements. the basel convention amendment prohibited the export of hazardous waste from eu and oecd countries and liechtenstein to other countries. of course, it is equally important to ensure that agreements are also respected. the 8th conference of the parties to the basel convention on the control of transboundary movements of hazardous wastes and their disposal will be held in nairobi at the end of november. the positions of the european union for this conference are currently being prepared by the council on all the issues on the agenda. these include illegal waste shipments, ship dismantling, contract financing, synergy between the waste and chemicals cluster and monitoring of the strategic plan for the implementation of the convention. as part of this preparatory work, the environment council held a thorough debate on 23 october, the day after, at the end of which the president drew conclusions on the eu's preparations for the basel cop. the conclusions stress the importance of taking decisive and effective action to tackle illegal transboundary movements of hazardous waste. it is important that as many other countries as possible, in addition to the current ratifiers, ratify the amendment to the ban on the export of hazardous waste so that it can enter into force worldwide as soon as possible. as you know, the ban is already in force in all eu member states, as it has been fully implemented by the waste shipment regulation. almost all eu countries have also ratified the amendment. the revised eu waste shipment regulation, which will come into force next july, also contains provisions to improve cooperation on its implementation at both member state and eu level. there is also a directive on port reception facilities for ship-generated waste and cargo residues, compliance with which may also be a matter of concern in the probo koala case. in a debate held the other day, the environment ministers also stressed that effective enforcement of existing legislation is a priority for the eu. the key to preventing illegal waste shipments is to increase the harmonisation of environmental and maritime legislation, particularly at international level, and to improve cooperation between public authorities. the most important thing is that all types of waste are treated in an environmentally acceptable way, no matter where it occurs. this must also be the primary objective when scrapping ships. the conclusions of the chair also stress the need for external assistance to help developing countries implement the basel convention and manage waste in an environmentally sound manner. developing countries should also integrate waste management into their poverty reduction and sustainable development strategies. the presidency also met the cote d'ivoire delegation in the context of the environment council, from which it received up-to-date information on the case. the scale of the environmental disaster is enormous: in addition to the loss of many lives, the acute health effects are extensive. disasters also have significant ecological impacts, on livelihoods, on human living conditions and on the functioning of communities. the main priority is to clean up contaminated areas and sewage systems and to mitigate the damage caused to citizens and businesses. in côte d'ivoire, both international and national investigations, including criminal investigations, are ongoing. in some member states, too, such as the netherlands and estonia, criminal investigations have been launched to fully investigate the circumstances surrounding the probo koala case. i now turn to the oral question by mr florenz, chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety: the member states of the european union have attached importance to the development of eu-wide legislation and cooperation in the prevention, investigation and prosecution of environmental crime. environmental crimes are typically international in nature, as the effects of illegal emissions extend far beyond national borders. however, as the honourable member states in his question, the council framework decision of 27 january 2003 on the protection of the environment by criminal law was annulled by the court of justice of the european communities on 13 september 2005. on 25 november 2005, the commission sent a communication to the european parliament and the council on the consequences of the judgment of the court of justice of the european communities. the court's judgment and the commission's communication were discussed at the informal meeting of justice and home affairs ministers in vienna in january 2006 and were discussed by the council in brussels on 21 february last spring. in those discussions, the commission indicated that it wished to continue to consider the procedure to be followed in respect of previous framework decisions adopted by the council, which might need to be reviewed in the light of the court's decision. that consideration also applies to the framework decision which the court of justice annulled. the council is therefore awaiting the commission's reaction: it may submit an amended version of the proposal for a directive it adopted in 2001 and amended in 2002, or it may submit a completely new proposal.
member of the commission. mr president, the recent incident of toxic waste dumping in côte d'ivoire has dramatic consequences. at least 10 people are dead, while thousands have been poisoned and hospitalized. although the actual circumstances surrounding this heinous environmental crime have yet to be clarified, the need to strictly enforce the ban on the export of hazardous waste to africa has become much more urgent. the commission, in cooperation with the member states, the united nations and the ivorian authorities, is seeking in various ways to make good the damage caused, as well as to take appropriate action to deal with any illegal activities that may have taken place. when the incident occurred, commission representatives - and in particular teams from the member states - were on the scene to help the victims and to help protect the natural environment. the commission is closely following developments in côte d'ivoire and is in constant contact with the authorities in the country. on monday i also met with the presidency and the delegation from the ivory coast, which included three ministers. the institutions and the member states of the european union must consider all possible means of supporting the victims in côte d'ivoire and contribute as much as possible to the elimination of pollution. criminal investigations are currently under way in several member states with which we are in contact. i myself after his return . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we look beyond the ivory coast incident, we find that there is a serious gap in the member states' compliance with the european union regulation on shipments of waste. this regulation contains clear rules prohibiting the export of hazardous waste to developing countries. these rules are to be tightened up and, from july next year, will impose on member states the obligation to carry out on-the-spot checks and inspections and to cooperate in cases of illegal shipments of waste. however, the mere existence of rules means nothing if they are not properly applied in practice. the gaps in the legislation must be filled by strict complementary measures to ensure its proper application. environmental crime is one of the most serious problems facing the community. the environmental damage it can cause is enormous. often they are even part of international organized crime, making their suppression difficult but imperative. the provision of effective penalties, including criminal penalties, is essential for the proper application of community environmental legislation. this is precisely why action at community level is urgently needed. in 2001 the commission put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law. the proposal was to establish a minimum number of criminal offences relating to the environment throughout the community and to provide for effective criminal penalties in all member states for such offences. it is regrettable that the council did not adopt the commission's proposal at that time. the proposal was based on article 175 of the treaty and was to be adopted by the co-decision procedure. the council did not agree with the legal basis and decided to adopt a framework decision on the basis of the third pillar instead of the directive we had proposed. in the european commission's view, this choice of instrument was not legally correct and would have made it impossible to monitor the transposition of the framework decision into national law and its implementation by the member states. in clear contrast to the council, the european parliament fully supported the commission's proposal and also supported the commission in the case when it was referred to the court of justice of the european communities. i would like to stress the particular importance of this good cooperation between our institutions and i hope that we will continue to do so in the further development of the matter. the european court of justice has now clarified that criminal measures necessary to ensure the effective implementation of environmental policy can be adopted under the first pillar. the council framework decision infringed the powers of the community under the treaty and had to be annulled. the european commission is particularly pleased with the court's decision. it is not a decision which regulates a mere technical point, it is of crucial importance for clarifying the rules of the treaty as regards the demarcation between the first and third pillars. it has a great institutional impact, because it clarifies that the measures in question must be adopted by the co-decision procedure, which means the full participation of parliament. in addition, under the first pillar, national implementing measures are subject to review by the court of justice of the european communities, whereas under the third pillar measures are not. a directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law - under the first pillar - will bring about better protection of the environment, while at the same time being a more democratic method in the legislative process. unfortunately, in the meantime, precious time has been lost. environmental crimes continue to be committed and we must put in place the necessary legal measures to deal with them. we have analysed and discussed in the commission the various options for following up the court's ruling. we considered two options in particular: either to leave the 2001 commission proposal as it is and invite the other institutions to continue the co-decision procedure, or to submit a new commission proposal. we preferred the second option, in order to take account of the court's decision. the original proposal dates back to 2001, since then there have been many changes in environmental legislation and therefore the proposal needs to be adapted accordingly. finally, new developments have taken place in the field of european cooperation in criminal matters, which must also be taken into account in the proposal. we must ensure that the proposal is consistent with other criminal legislation which has been adopted at european level. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the legal framework for the protection of the environment. the first step was, as i said, to analyse in detail the court's decision and its consequences and to make a thorough comparison of the various legislation already in force. we then carried out an impact assessment study comparing the pros and cons of the different options. after that, the proposal will be finalised and i hope it will be adopted before the end of 2006.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the toxic waste scandal in côte d'ivoire is a truly abhorrent act. we can of course now simply mourn the victims and the serious injuries suffered by the people. but if we do not ask the causes in the same breath, then it is all hypocrisy. i'm not good for that. i therefore expressly confirm: it is a humanitarian disaster, an environmental disaster, and a scandal. i am always surprised that we have introduced the principle of 'name and shame' in this house when it comes to third parties, for example in the production of meat. so if anyone misses, his name should be made public and in the newspapers. exceptionally, this is not the case in the member states of this union. this is very strange! madam president, you have of course presented the chronology correctly. but commissioner dimas has explained to you the real reason why european legislation is not working, namely because the council is petty. i am not talking about you or your country, but in such cross-border issues, which you have rightly recognised, you must also have the courage to carry out cross-border punitive and prosecutorial actions in the future. if the commission proposes this, but the council, in its goodness, then doubts the legal basis and you have the commission and parliament together because you do not allow the law to be implemented with your blocking minority, then this is really extremely irritating for a representative of the people, that is, for the one who is supposed to control the government. this can't happen. the council's petty attitude on this issue must end! i would ask you very kindly to tell your colleague that the chairman of the committee is very angry because there is no point in retrospective litigation unless we do our homework first. we made them, but you practically crossed them out. it's not okay. i think that the council should in future devote more attention to the question of the implementation of european rules. i have been in this house for a long time now and we have discussed and decided many things. but when it comes to putting these things into practice, we are all petty again. i live on the border of a friendly neighboring country, the netherlands. it took us an incredible amount of time to come to an understanding of how to catch criminals. we're fortunately still there, but in the pursuit of garbage crime, we're still living in the days of noah's ark. the council has not yet adopted the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have many implementation deficits. i would like to know whether it is checked whether there is really a consent of the state to which the toxic waste is being shipped. otherwise, you can't import these toxic substances. there are so many regulations in this area that we just need to implement with intelligence and courage. it is not just a health and environmental scandal, by the way, it is also a competition scandal. if we do not close this gap in our country, and in the basle convention, we will encourage people who are not so strict with the law to export pollution. it is also hypocritical, because on the one hand we are talking about high standards in europe, but on the other hand we are opening up a lot of holes to make such exports possible. the poor man who is being beaten is commissioner dimas and with him the commission. in this case, madam president, the commission is completely innocent. our two institutions were on the right track. we would ask you to follow the good proposals of parliament and the commission on this matter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we must be clear that the middle east crisis - both in lebanon and in the middle east - can only be resolved if syria is included. we must recognize that syria is currently linked to iran and hezbollah, and we must consider whether these links cannot be broken off in a way that is in syria's interest. syria is a sunni secular state that has relatively little in common ideologically with shiite fundamentalists. for this reason, we could use an association agreement if we are to advance respect for human rights and find a solution in the joint fight against terrorism. we are not going to be able to stop arms supplies to lebanon against the will of syria. this connection must be seen. another condition is the solution of the shebaa farms problem. this is extremely important to take away the alibi argument of hezbollah that you have to have weapons there because this territory is occupied by israel. for all these reasons, it is necessary to achieve improvement within syria and to improve syria's relationship with the european union. the initiative taken by mrs de keyser through the committee on foreign affairs, which i believe is welcomed by both the council and the commission, makes an important contribution to giving syria an opportunity and an offer to pursue its own interests and to make a constructive contribution to the peace process in the region by pursuing its own interests. it is clear that this regime is anti-democratic, that it violates human rights, that people syrians and others must be released and that cooperation with the military arm of hezbollah and hamas must be ended. but i believe that such a dialogue is possible and that the offer of an association agreement in such a framework can be an effective instrument for that.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for this very valuable debate. it has become clear in this debate that the same phenomenon is occurring in this chamber as in the international community and also among the moderate arab countries, namely that there are slightly different views on what policy towards syria is best and most effective in bringing syria back into the constructive membership of the international community. the european union has concluded that isolation is driving syria in the wrong direction, and the council specifically discussed and reoriented this issue at the beginning of august, so that all relevant parties are involved in resolving the middle east issue, and syria is one of those relevant parties. i can therefore say that this is what has been done, for example, to bring up the wish of mr swoboda that the presidency should specifically listen to those who are seeking to build an active dialogue with syria. one example is the forthcoming euro-mediterranean foreign ministers' meeting in tampere, to which syria has also been invited. it is certainly worthwhile to build and activate the interparliamentary dialogue, as mr salafranca pointed out in his speech. in rewarming these relationships, it is very important to have the right circumstances and also the right timing. of course, by these actions of our own, we are specifically seeking to offer syria the opportunity to play a positive role. the fact that in the middle east, when we are looking for a solution, everything affects everything has been made very clear in this debate. that is why we have been actively seeking, even in recent months, a comprehensive, long-term and lasting solution to the middle east question. this solution has been actively sought. the high representative is in that area today and he intends to visit not only israel and the palestinian territories but also beirut, jordan and possibly other places, so that contacts between the various parties are very important.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, thank you for pushing forward this process of reflection on this strategically vitally important country in the middle east. i think this was a very important debate. allow me to answer a few very specific questions. one was on human rights. in the absence of an association agreement in force, the european union has no platform for an in-depth dialogue on human rights with syria where it could also discuss critical issues – and there are many to be discussed – such as the abrogation of emergency rule, the amendments to the laws on politically partisan ngos, the granting of citizenship to stateless kurds or the setting-up of a national council on human rights. i do not think we should make total progress on human rights a precondition for signature. however, we – meaning the representatives of the commission and the member states in damascus especially – use our political instruments such as démarches and political declarations to denounce the most severe abuses of human rights. for instance, we raise with the syrian authorities the situation of prisoners of conscience, detainees, on a very regular basis; and we also systematically observe the trials at the state security court. in addition, through our cooperation programmes we are supporting the emergence of an open civil society in syria. the commission therefore launched six micro-projects in january under the european initiative for democracy and human rights. these target arab lawyers, women’s organisations, refugee organisations, the kurdish minority and the media, and also promote women’s and children’s rights. however, in the present situation of tightening control by the security services, those projects and most training activities have had some difficulty in getting off the ground. the authorities challenge the legality of these projects in syria, political ngos are sometimes tolerated but not always authorised, and we are therefore investigating solutions to these problems. of course, we have also raised individual cases directly with the syrian government. with regard to questions of assistance, eu financial assistance has not gone to supporting the regime, as was mentioned earlier by some colleagues here. it has gone, for example, to supporting the private sector and also the small and medium-sized enterprises. we have helped the people directly, for instance through health programmes, and we have targeted help at getting reforms to open up the economy and trade, competition and investment – things that will be very important for the future development of the country. finally, i would like to reiterate a point i made earlier. we are in favour of a dialogue with syria with a political and economic perspective. we are trying to maintain a positive perspective, building on progress that has already been made, for example in supporting the reforms the government is undertaking to open up the economy that i have just mentioned to and decentralise power. but at the same time, as i said before, we will be looking at practical action on regional issues such as the implementation of security council resolution 1701, and playing a positive role, for instance in palestine. this will determine how fast we can proceed with our future engagement, and i see that a great majority in this debate also seems to lean in that direction.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is question time (b6-0437/2006). we shall deal with the following questions to the council.
question no 1 by mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0779/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: service provision and freedom of movement for families with childrenan increasing number of european families complain that they are discriminated against in the provision of services and exercise of the right to freedom of movement in the eu because they have children under 15 with them. in greek press reports it was presented as positive that children should not have access to publicly accessible commercial establishments such as hotels and restaurants. what measures will the council take to put an end to this discrimination and this form of ageism against children, young people and their families? is there any plan to harmonise the rules governing the provision of services and the guarantee of free movement in the eu in order to ensure that the rights of european minors and their families are not infringed?
president of the council. mr president, we have legislation to prevent discrimination against all groups of people and all age groups, such as the directive on racial equality and the directive on employment and occupational discrimination. they include provisions, inter alia, on the prohibition of discrimination in most everyday situations. as regards the examples of restaurant culture given by the honourable member in his question, it must be remembered that not only the council, but also the citizens of the member states as consumers and, ultimately, the people who pay for these services, have a significant influence on the way in which the culture develops from the point of view of families with children.
president of the council. mr president, there has of course been a great deal of discussion in the field of advertising to children, particularly about marketing and what kind of marketing and in what circumstances is appropriate when targeted at children. but as regards the example of hotels, which the honourable member has mentioned, i would like to return to what i said in my previous answer, namely that, of course, consumer organisations and paying customers have a say in the type of services provided.
question no 2 by mr ortega (h-0781/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: strengthening frontexthe european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders (frontex), which was set up last year, has started its work with limited resources and obvious weaknesses. does the council intend to adopt measures to increase the effectiveness of its activities either through intergovernmental cooperation or by providing it with additional community funds?
president of the council. first of all, mr president, it is of course a positive thing to hear that frontex has done well. while acknowledging that it has also had some problems or at least challenges, it must be remembered that the agency is very young in its establishment and is at the same time in the process of building its own administration and taking care of the agency's tasks. it has also been involved in a very large number of operations both in the mediterranean and elsewhere. of course, the scale and effectiveness of this follow-up also depends on additional funding.
president of the council. mr president, one very important issue relating to this illegal immigration, or immigration as a whole, is of course our cooperation with these countries of origin and transit. the union has recently been trying to pay particular attention to the intersections between migration and development, with the idea that we must be able to intensify our cooperation with countries of origin in order to reduce the pressure on migration there too. of course, part of this cooperation with the countries of origin is to inform them of the possibilities or impossibilities that exist. the next eu-africa high level meeting will be held in tripoli in november and will focus on migration.
president of the council. mr president, the ability of frontex and the union in general to act in these situations of illegal immigration naturally depends very much on the level of commitment of the member states. this has been the subject of much discussion at various levels of the union in recent times, most recently at the eu summit in lahore last friday, but this debate is still in progress and it is therefore still difficult to give a precise answer to this question.
question no 3 by sarah ludford (h-0783/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: exchange of information on convicted paedophiles how far has the proposal for a council framework decision on the recognition and enforcement of professional bans in the european union based on convictions for sexual offences against children progressed in the council? this framework decision would allow, in cases where pedophiles or child molesters are prohibited from working with children after having been convicted of a sexual offence or of engaging in child pornography in a member state, the information to be shared so that the names of these persons can be entered in other national sex offender registers and the ban can be enforced across the eu. why has the council apparently not been able to agree on this important proposal, which the european parliament endorsed in june 2006 and which would serve as a practical example to the citizens of europe of the valuable role the eu plays in fighting crime and increasing security? has the council departed from its stated objective of giving priority to combating the sexual abuse of children?
president of the council. mr president, of course this question time is not about what i can personally approve, but about what kind of debate and decision-making is being sought in the council. but the council is now going to proceed in this respect too, in accordance with the so-called principle of assimilation, i.e. that the member state would be obliged to attach to a foreign criminal conviction the same legal effects as to a national conviction, but in the end this is linked to much wider cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs and to the way in which mutual recognition of convictions and extradition are otherwise proceeded with.
question no 4 is therefore inadmissible since the author is not present. question no 5 by mr liam aylward (h-0787/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: aviation sector can the council state what new measures it intends to take to improve the safety of passengers on european airlines in the light of the continuing threat of international terrorism?
president of the council. mr president, apart from decision-making, it is of course very important to monitor the operation and to keep a constant eye on the changing environment. it is also of course very important that we can create uniform rules for different airports and for different member states. of course, good predictability will certainly also help in practical work to anticipate the time required for security checks, for example, and thus reduce the inconvenience to passengers. however, i think that those of us who travel very regularly will also have to get used to the fact that air transport has become an even more challenging industry.
president of the council. mr president, it is of course good to look at and discuss in the council how we want to make the activities of the aviation agency, for example, more efficient, but of course the powers can only be delegated to the extent and to the extent that the member states are prepared to do so. i find it very difficult to believe that the speed of a security check depends on whether it is a private operator or a government institution, but rather on the allocation of resources and the amount of resources in general. of course, it is clear that airports, especially during peak hours, will certainly have difficulty handling the large number of passengers.
question no 6 by mr seán ó neachtain (h-0789/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: status of the irish language irish will become an official working language of the eu institutions on 1 january 2007. can the council give a full account of the preparations made to ensure that the eu institutions have all the necessary systems in place to ensure that irish becomes an official working language of the european union in practice on 1 january next year?
president of the council. as the rapporteur has said, linguistic diversity is a very important part of european culture and the diversity of european cultures. but it must be admitted that it is precisely for reasons of cost and practicality that the council has adopted more restrictive language or interpretation arrangements for informal meetings, sometimes two, sometimes five or six languages, and that system has worked very well in practice.
question no 7 by mr van hecke (h-0791/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: increased press censorship in china recently, the chinese government has again tightened its grip on the foreign press. she must now abide by strict internal regulations. the news disseminated by foreign press offices is first controlled and, if necessary, censored (literally) in order not to endanger the stability, national unity and sovereignty of the country. this is another violation of human rights. the european commission has already expressed its concern and has promised to raise the matter in future contacts. will the council follow suit and what measures does it propose to take against this totally unjustified censorship of the press?
president of the council. mr president, the council is concerned, as is the rapporteur, about the tightening of press censorship in china. the european union has systematically and repeatedly called on china to ratify the international covenant on civil and political rights, which contains provisions on freedom of expression, and to lift travel restrictions on foreign journalists and other requirements for interviewing citizens in china, in all the biannual eu-china human rights dialogue rounds. this issue was raised at the eu-china human rights dialogue round in beijing on 19 october.
president of the council. mr president, firstly, on the occasion of the asem summit in helsinki on 10 september, the foreign ministers of the presidency and china met. the question of freedom of the press was then recently raised in public and was at the heart of the foreign ministers' discussions. it could therefore be said that the european union's reaction is as rapid and as typical as it is in its discussions with other countries. the eu-china summit was also held in early september and human rights issues in general were also discussed.
question no 8 by brian crowley (h-0793/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: community agency for fundamental rightscan the european council make a statement on the state of play in the creation of the new community agency for fundamental rights? can the council give information on the possible powers of this agency?
president of the council. mr president, at its meeting in june 2006, the european council noted progress in the negotiations on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the european union agency for fundamental rights and the proposal for a council decision authorising the european union agency for fundamental rights to carry out activities in the fields covered by the third pillar of the treaty on european union, namely cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs, which were submitted by the commission in july last year. the european council called for the necessary steps to be taken as soon as possible to enable the agency to be set up and to be operational by 1 january 2007. in accordance with the conclusions of the european council, the finnish presidency organised a series of bilateral meetings in july, august, september and october to resolve the main remaining issue, namely the extension of the agency's activities to the areas covered by the third pillar of the treaty on european union. at the council meeting in early october, the presidency presented a report on the negotiations and asked for support for the idea of extending the agency's activities to the areas covered by the third pillar, but in a more limited form than in the commission's original proposal. the majority of the delegations that expressed their views supported this view of the chair, although some delegations questioned whether there was a proper legal basis for enlargement. the presidency will continue to examine the options and will present a proposal for mediation to the delegations in the near future. as regards the agency's remit, its objective is to provide advice and expertise on fundamental rights to the community institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and to the member states in the application of community law, and thus to assist them in ensuring respect for fundamental rights when they take action or define policies within the framework of their remit. there is a consensus that the establishment of such an agency will add value to and increase the coherence of the european union's human rights policy. the agency will also be the main contact point for fundamental rights issues in the european union. the agency will carry out its tasks in complementarity and synergy with the work of the council of europe once the decisions on its establishment have been taken.
president of the council. mr president, first of all, the agency is to be set up as an advisory body of experts. but we also believe that it would be difficult to justify, even to the citizens, the creation of a fundamental rights agency which would be deprived of such core competences as its activities in the area of the third pillar. that is why we are continuing to work on this matter.
president of the council. mr president, perhaps such an attempt is sometimes made in certain contexts. but we have tried to work as a presidency to make the administrative structures themselves as light as possible. as for the fundamental rights agency, on the other hand, as i said at the beginning, there is a strong consensus that it is necessary. it is therefore necessary to make a great effort to ensure that decisions are taken and that the agency is operational from 1 january and that it has competence in matters which are essential to its operation.
question no 9 by eoin ryan (h-0795/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eu-iran relationscan the european council make a statement on the current state of eu-iran relations, with particular reference to the issue of the future of the nuclear industry in iran?
president of the council. mr president, the council is committed to continuing to build a long-term relationship of trust and cooperation with iran. the development of relations requires progress on all the problematic issues, including human rights, terrorism, iran's attitude to the middle east peace process and regional issues, and iran's nuclear programme. on the nuclear issue, the council has repeatedly stated its commitment to a diplomatic solution that takes account of international concerns about iran's nuclear programme, while at the same time strengthening iran's right to the peaceful use of nuclear energy in accordance with the npt. in this context, on 17 october the council noted the continued efforts made by the high representative, mr javier solana, since june to encourage iran to respond to the demands of the international atomic energy agency's governing council and the un security council and to continue discussions on long-term arrangements. the eu takes very seriously the iaea's assessment that, after almost four years of intensive verification, the agency has failed to make progress in its efforts to verify the accuracy and completeness of iran's declarations concerning the peaceful nature of its nuclear programme. the eu is also very concerned that iran has not suspended all its uranium enrichment and reprocessing activities, as requested by the iaea board of governors and the un security council. in its resolution 1696, the security council indicated its intention to take appropriate measures under article 41 if iran failed to comply with the request. accordingly, the council considers that, as iran continues to engage in uranium enrichment activities, the union has no choice but to support the negotiations on those sanctions. however, the council now stated in october that the door to the negotiating table was still open to iran and urged iran to choose the positive course proposed to it. the eu high representative presented the six countries' proposals to iran on 6 june. these far-reaching proposals would form the basis of a long-term agreement and give iran everything it needs to develop a modern civilian energy sector, taking into account international concerns. the choice of this positive approach would pave the way for new relations with iran, which could be based on mutual respect and enhanced cooperation in the political and economic fields. the council hopes that this positive path can be taken further.
president of the council. mr president, the discussion of these possible coercive measures is of course linked to the fact that un security council resolution 1696 is also a commitment of the european union. the drug trafficking is linked to the overall situation in afghanistan, which could even be the subject of a separate question. the union has a long-term commitment to afghanistan, not only to peacekeeping and crisis management but also to the development of a comprehensive approach to drug production.
question no 10 by mr sajjad karim (h-0799/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eu trade facilitation as a confidence-building measure between india and pakistanin my report on eu-india economic and trade relations (a6-0256/2006), i called on both india and pakistan to further reduce administrative barriers that hinder the implementation of confidence-building measures in trade and (...) called on the eu to provide technical assistance where appropriate. council regulation (eec) no 443/92 oj l 52, 27.2.1992, p. 1 also highlights regional cooperation as an 'important sector' for aid and as a key sector for economic cooperation. what role does the trade council consider it can play in bringing india and pakistan closer to a peaceful solution to the kashmir issue? was this question discussed at the recent eu-india summit in helsinki and what conclusions were reached? can the council indicate any programmes or proposals for programmes which, with special reference to kashmir and the post-earthquake reconstruction between india and pakistan, are designed to promote confidence-building measures through trade relations and, in general, closer economic integration in the saarc countries?
president of the council. mr president, on this question, as on many others which have been raised in this chamber today, for example, it must be said that when it is a question between two states, it is essential that these parties themselves actively seek a solution to the question. the union and other major powers can of course support this process. but since i am here mainly on behalf of the council, it is impossible for me to take a very strong stand on behalf of the united states.
question no 11 by mr protasiewicz (h-0803/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: labour camps, violation of workers' rights in july this year, the italian police, in cooperation with polish law enforcement agencies, dismantled so-called labour camps in southern italy where polish workers were housed by italian employers in conditions which did not meet basic hygiene and sanitation standards or the basic rights of workers in italy. further investigations show that this was not an isolated case, but that similar practices (non-compliance with employment regulations) are found in other regions of italy and other eu member states. does the council intend to take measures in this respect, leading to the punishment of the perpetrators of violations of workers' rights and effectively preventing the emergence of such labour camps in the eu in the future?
president of the council. mr president, member states decide whether to apply transitional periods to the free movement of labour for the new member states. there are also member states which applied the transitional period in the previous enlargement but no longer do so in this new enlargement. the reason is that it is better for labour to move within the framework of the common european acquis than to create derogations. as i said in my answer to the previous question, equal treatment in the labour market is very well protected in the area of regulation, but there is a need to pay more attention to implementation and monitoring.
i have to say, madam president, i do not criticize you, because i very much appreciate the way you are conducting question time. but i want to remember monday. on monday we established the rules of procedure. the draft conference of presidents provided for an hour and a half of question time. then the president cut it to an hour. several colleagues protested, and then the vote was not taken. i therefore assumed that we would have an hour and a half for question time, as we should. i would like to ask the council whether it could stay for another 15 or 20 minutes. or is there a union of council presidents that forbids the council to answer questions after 7 p.m.? the council's previous question-and-answer session did not start until 9 p.m. and it worked wonderfully. the council just stayed until the next day. so, i don't think this procedure is right.
i am glad to hear your compliments, but you are wrong about our debate on monday, because it was not about the rules of procedure, but about the agenda, and there was a vote on the agenda. you can refer to the minutes for further information. we should all take question time seriously or more seriously - that is an important right of all members - and we should all make a concerted effort to avoid asking questions too often during the agenda. questions which have not been dealt with for reasons of time will be answered in writing (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. inland waterway transport in the eu has been criminally neglected for many years. naiades is about changing that. we want to make progress for inland navigation in terms of employment, markets, infrastructure and the fleet as a whole. the reliability of inland waterways and the availability of multifunctional inland ports are the most important prerequisites for this, also with regard to multimodal transport chains. in this context, i would also like to point out - as commissioner barrot has already done - the importance of ris, which can and will make an important contribution to the use of inland waterways. therefore, the potential of ris should also be exploited by including it in the ten programme. but now back to naiades: the naiades report points to the need to set stricter community emission limits, in particular by promoting the use of low sulphur fuels. that's good enough. but i think it would be counterproductive if stricter emission limits were to oblige the inland waterway sector, which is predominantly made up of smes, to undertake expensive retrofits that the sector cannot afford. the commission has therefore to work to ensure that both the commission and, in particular, the member states create incentives for the accelerated introduction of environmentally friendly marine engines. with regard to the proposed european maritime innovation fund, i believe it is important that the way in which this fund is set up is determined in close cooperation with the inland waterway industry. and it should be possible to support the financing of communication offices through this fund. in addition to the commission's initiative to provide sources of information on financing issues, such as the creation of a financing manual, a european development plan is needed, which includes an up-to-date inventory and further information on european inland waterways. this, in turn, requires taking into account existing scientific studies, expert reports and the existing experience of the coordinators. it would be wrong to try to reinvent the wheel over and over again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. corien, thank you for your commitment and for the really good and constructive cooperation!
the commission's vice-president mr president, first of all i would like to echo this excellent debate and thank all the speakers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a real option, and we need alternative modes of transport in europe today. i am therefore fully committed, as is your rapporteur and as you have shown. but you are right, it is not enough to make declarations, we must act. so i'm going to give you some answers. first, let us look at the innovation fund: the commission services are currently studying, with representatives of the profession and the member states, the possibility of creating a fund for innovation in the field of inland waterway transport. this fund would be an important instrument for the implementation of the naiades programme. we are looking at various options, including how this fund can be funded by the inland waterway sector, the union and the member states. the commission will report on the situation and the results of the discussions in 2007. you have in fact put a lot of emphasis, mrs wortmann-kool, on this innovation fund. on the subject of pollution from ships, it is true that we must, madam president, but without exaggeration, consider reducing the sulphur content of fuel used for inland navigation. the idea is to reduce this sulphur content to the level of diesel fuel used in road transport. this reduction in sulphur levels is essential to reduce air pollution. we are revising the air pollution directives with the aim of substantially reducing sulphur levels. i have, however, taken note of what you said about the investments to be made for this purpose. mrs lichtenberger, you asked me about the monitoring of dangerous goods. i would like to point out that a proposal is currently being discussed between the various services and is due to be adopted before the end of the year. as a general rule, mr meijer, infrastructure improvements will be accompanied by impact analyses in order to reduce as far as possible any adverse effects of infrastructure works. in general, i will answer all the speakers that infrastructure obviously requires investment. these investments are the responsibility of the member states. nevertheless, it is true, and i am speaking in particular to you, mrs ayala, that we have proposed in the financial regulation to give priority to inland waterway transport by providing for a ceiling rate of 30%. but may i call on parliament to help us in the adoption of this financial regulation? i sense a great deal of reluctance on the part of the member states, but i am sure that parliament will give this priority to the waterways. there are certainly other solutions to be proposed, but i wanted to say through these few replies that my concern was, of course, to take action. as you have said, we have in europe many beautiful waterways, like the danube, and i have taken note of your comments on the need to link up all the people living on the danube. i must say that we are aware, mr rack, of the importance of such waterways and the major role they can play in the future. that is what i wanted to say, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the hope that we can continue together this essential work to give the waterway in europe its full place.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank in advance the representatives of the other groups who have been particularly involved in this report, mrs cederschiöld, mr lambsdorff, mrs rühle, and also the representatives of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. it was a constructive and fair exchange of views. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but there too, compromises were necessary. we have tried to find a balance between two powerful opponents who have represented their legitimate interests in an impressive way - i mean the business associations and the local associations. i should like to begin by addressing a word to these associations. to the economy: in the light of all that we have heard, i would like to make it clear that we members of parliament take for granted that municipalities carry out economic activities, and even that re-municipalisation is both sensible and legitimate. and to the municipalities i would say that tenders, whether national or european, are not necessarily arbitrary but provide the necessary transparency for the benefit of citizens and to protect against corruption. i have the impression that the two associations have not always seen this in the debate. i have tried to strike a balance in my report, to give the private sector a greater guarantee of competition and the public sector, the municipalities, a greater guarantee of scope for inter-municipal cooperation. we shall therefore decide tomorrow on parliament's positions on further mandates to the commission, preferably in the form of legislation, in the opinion of my group. it is about the legal and political aspects of the way in which our municipalities organise services of general interest. they are doing so, of course, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, which we in parliament take very seriously. finally, many meps are closely linked to the local authorities through their previous activities in local government. but we are also asked, as committed europeans, how we are going to shape the internal market. in addition, there are numerous judgments of the european court of justice and other national courts. there are complaints, there are commission procedures which make the local authorities and investors uncertain about the way in which they can initiate investments and projects in their own countries. that is why the european union must also take action. what does european public procurement law entail, for example? what clarifications and additions are necessary for institutionalised ppps or in-house transactions? it is a very important task for us to consider how we go about it. in my group's view, a law is necessary, it is not enough for the commission to try to bypass parliament by means of interpretative communications or similar instruments. i therefore appeal once again to all members to vote tomorrow by roll call in favour of the right of self-determination of parliament! we don't want to be a big, long-winded operation. we also do not want to open the last directive on public procurement, which has not yet been implemented in all the member states, for example in germany. we need clarifications and possible additions, and they cannot be made without parliament. in the case of inter-municipal cooperation - i say this quite openly - we have no patent solution. this was - and you will see this in the amendments - the most contentious area. we believe that inter-municipal cooperation cannot be generally excluded from public procurement law. but it's not meant to be a general statement. so we need an intelligent solution to this tension. inter-municipal cooperation is useful for our municipalities, especially for the future. the fact that the european parliament supports this instrument is shown by the fact that we use funds from the structural funds for this purpose. i'm sure not everyone is aware of how much we're involved. with this sympathy for the european municipalities and with the expertise of my colleagues from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i am convinced that we will arrive at a law which is viable and acceptable to all, and which is also safe from the judgments of the european court of justice.
the commission's vice-president mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, public-private partnerships (ppps) have been established in several areas of the public sector and these partnerships are gradually developing in the european union. in an era of limited public budgets, their importance for the european economy cannot be doubted. this is particularly true in the area of infrastructure, and particularly in the area of transport infrastructure, which i know well. in order to fully guarantee the effectiveness of such partnerships and a better use of public money, it is important to choose private partners on the basis of fair competition. the choice of the private partner must therefore be both the result of a competitive and non-discriminatory procedure and must enable the partners to derive the full added value of such a partnership in the long term. however, many interested parties consider that the regulatory framework governing the choice of private partners to create such partnerships at community level is incomplete or lacks clarity. mrs weiler's report gives a balanced assessment of the main challenges we have to face. you, madam president, have given good answers to the problems that have arisen and i should like to thank you for your work as rapporteur. let me mention two aspects which are essential to us and which i would like to deal with before tomorrow's vote. i shall first speak of concessions and then of the public-private joint ventures known as 'institutionalized ppps'. firstly, concessions: a concession gives an undertaking the right to exploit the works carried out or the service provided in return for the construction of an infrastructure or the provision of a service. for example, construction and maintenance of motorways, airports or waste management. in november 2005, a year ago, the commission set out in its communication the reasons why it considered it useful to legislate on concessions, in particular on service concessions. the objective of such an initiative would be to ensure the homogeneity of treatment and legal certainty of the award of service concessions, as is the case for public procurement, while clearly distinguishing between public procurement and concessions. i am sure that parliament will support the opinion of the committee on the internal market in this respect. however, it remains very clear that the choice of the legislative route should not deprive the public authorities of the margin of manoeuvre they need to choose the best private partner and, if necessary, to make adjustments to the concession over time, in line with the objectives of the long-term ppp partnership. but there's no need to rush. the commission will initially examine more closely the costs and benefits of a binding concession initiative and will consider other measures to address the problems involved. on the basis of the results of this impact assessment, the commission will decide in a second stage, most likely next year, whether the comparison of benefits and costs justifies such a legislative initiative. if so, we will prepare a legislative proposal. that is what i had to say about the concessions. the first is the question of the role of the private sector in the development of the economy. public bodies are increasingly choosing private partners for public service enterprises set up jointly with the public sector. this is what we call institutionalized public-private partnerships. this type of partnership raises particular questions: should the community principles of non-discrimination apply to the choice of the private partner, the co-shareholder of the service provider, the choice of the service provider, or both? this question has been the subject of lively debate in parliament. the main question is really whether we should create a new set of rules or whether we should simply make existing legislation clearer so that we can deal with the problems that arise. the commission has expressed a preference: at the moment it does not wish to draw up new legislation in this area, for two reasons. first, in most member states the creation of public-private entities for services of general economic interest is a completely new and highly innovative possibility. non-binding clarifications in this area would provide the necessary guidance without stifling innovation. secondly, in 2004, after several years of intense discussions, parliament, the then 15 member states and the commission reached a compromise and adopted the current public procurement directives. many member states have only implemented these directives this year, and some are working towards it. legislation on mixed public-private partnerships would require a revision of the 2004 compromise, renegotiation of a new text with 27 member states instead of 15 and, in the event of a new compromise, a renewed obligation on member states to amend their national legislation and public procurement practices, even though the current rules are not yet well established. we therefore think that it is preferable at this stage to choose a non-legislative approach, as requested by most of the interested parties. that, mr president, is the point i wanted to make on behalf of my colleague, mr mccreevy, but you will agree that the commissioner responsible for transport is also very much concerned by these provisions. i shall now listen carefully to the various speeches by members of parliament.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is not i would like to have a quarter of the commissioner's speaking time to explain the position of the economic committee. i'm afraid that's not possible. i am very grateful for the clear explanations that have been made here and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs weiler, for taking over - which is unfortunately not the case in this house - in the context of the enhanced cooperation procedure, essential points of the proposal from the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we agree on the line. we have some differences, for example on paragraph 5, which mrs weiler has brought back as amendment no 20. if there is a legislative explanation, we will deal with it under the codecision procedure under article 251. this was a typical case in the economic committee, where we did not find the exact wording until after the vote because we were looking for a compromise during the vote. we should go the other way, and then there will be no more differences after the vote. i prefer to vote for amendment no 21 tabled by mrs weiler, in accordance with the line adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i would therefore like to express my personal opinion. i am in favour of adopting this amendment, which provides for the possibility of incorporating these criteria into community legislation. that is a better way than amendment no 20. i believe that we should continue to follow our common line, which is that there must be no new large-scale free zones, that the bypass must not be opened through municipal associations with a transregional character, that the inhouse business must not be expanded, and this is the right way. we are, however, asking the commission to clarify the issues raised by the halle judgment and other judgments of the european court of justice. we therefore want not only a proposal for concessions, but also clarification of the legal issues that remain unresolved in the institutionalised public-private partnerships, mr commissioner! you've made your position clear. this was clearly - and to the commission's satisfaction - clear, since it has repeatedly avoided the decision in recent years. in that spirit, we will find a common solution that will move us forward. finally, i would like to thank mrs weiler once again for having sought to adopt a uniform line as far as possible, and for having enabled us to stand firm in the face of the judgments of the european court of justice and in the fierce debate with various interest groups.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we agree that the public procurement authorities are of central importance in terms of budgetary and competition policy. the tendering procedure is appropriate to determine the most economically viable option for the provision of public services. in addition, the obligation to open up europe-wide tendering is a major contribution to the opening up of the internal market to competition. mrs weiler, as rapporteur, deserves the credit for having led us in an exemplary, collegial way through this difficult dossier of public procurement. it is thanks to her that we have already found many viable compromises in the committee on the internal market. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but that it should be a matter of the member states. i have recommended to my group that we stick to the results of this vote and i would like to deal only with the few points of dispute. the first is institutionalised public-private partnerships: this is still a relatively recent phenomenon. it should not be restricted in its development by legal regulations on fees. this wish was made clear in the public consultation. i therefore recommend that we leave it to an interpretative communication and guides which are not only understandable to lawyers but also to municipal decision-makers. this not only provides more flexibility than legislation, but above all promises a rapid clarification of the legal uncertainties that still exist. the commission is called upon to act as soon as possible. the second point of contention is inter-municipal cooperation. i take it for granted that the municipalities should not be restricted in any way in their self-government. i think it is equally self-evident that this does not mean that public-private partnerships are generally exempt from any obligation to submit tenders. the public authorities are not obliged to outsource the performance of tasks for which there is a market. however, if it chooses to contract out the provision of a service, it must be bound by a tendering procedure. this is already apparent from article 295 of the treaty, which requires neutrality in the application of the internal market rules to public and private undertakings. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. let me conclude by saying this: the experience of public-private partnerships in europe is very diverse. i therefore welcome the idea of starting an exchange of best practice which will lead to further positive examples of successful ppps. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i also thank the rapporteur for her work, even though our group is not satisfied with the final result in committee. i would therefore like to appeal to you all once again tonight to reconsider your position at least in part! the most important point for us is the question of inter-municipal cooperation, of municipal associations. i would like to make it clear once again - and in reply to my predecessors - that this has nothing to do with the appointment of third parties, but rather with the decision of municipalities to provide services together. in the face of scarce public funds, an ageing population, declining population numbers - especially in rural communities - but also increasingly critical and cost-conscious citizens, this form of cooperation is the best, often the only way for many municipalities in europe to modernise and fulfil their services. the administrative tasks, water supply and sanitation, kindergartens, schools and many cultural institutions are thus operated jointly, sometimes even across borders, for example, joint institutions for pre-primary education by french and german municipalities. europe should not jeopardize this, but rather strengthen it. i therefore expressly call again for support for our amendment no 45, which is a compromise between different groups of members. i hope he finds a majority tomorrow. the second point is the question of concessions. i'm probably more skeptical about public-private partnerships than most of you. however, i think it is wrong to send the signal that public-private partnerships should be encouraged, but then to demand that concessions be advertised in the same way as the contracts for which the ppps were created. it is not by chance that the parliament and the council have not explicitly included service concessions in the directive on public procurement, and i hope we can agree that we do not want to have a similar obligation to tender as in the case of public procurement. service concessions are a different matter and should be regulated differently. in-house: here the european legislator would have been called upon to clarify the conditions. i don't think it's sustainable that we end up at 100%. i think we need thresholds, and i think we need high thresholds. they must be respected. but it is the legislator who should define the thresholds, not the ecj.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that the institutionalized public-private partnerships are a very important tool. the legal uncertainty created by the judgment of the european court of justice in the halle case has shown the need for the legislator to act. and it is not appropriate for the european commission alone to give guidance on how to deal with this problem. it is rather up to the co-legislator, the european parliament, the council and the european commission to decide together how we are to act in europe on these issues. the second point i would like to mention briefly is inter-communal cooperation. mr. lambsdorff, i have to disagree with you. it has been around for a long time and has a long tradition, including in the federal republic of germany. we should keep it. we must not destroy the delicate seed of crossborder inter-municipal cooperation that exists today by declaring that it should be left to the free market. we can then pack up immediately, we will no longer need municipalities, and that is certainly not the europe we want.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the posting of workers directive is one of the most important directives on the freedom to provide services. on the one hand, it allows fair competition among service providers throughout europe, and on the other hand it contains clear rules for the protection of posted workers. it sets minimum standards that apply to everyone. and yet it provides for sufficient flexibility to allow these standards to be implemented in the various national systems. its core principle is equal minimum wages and equal minimum conditions for equal work in the same place. it creates a level playing field for local businesses. however, the successful implementation of the posting of workers directive requires the commitment of everyone, from all sides and at all levels! i should like to take this opportunity to thank the colleagues who have contributed to this report for their commitment and, above all, for their endless patience in the negotiations. i would also like to thank the staff in the committee's secretariat, the tabling office, the political groups and the members' offices for their commitment and for the extra hours not counted. this report is a joint report. it is supported by all the political groups, and that is because everyone has moved and compromises have finally been found in the interests of the cause. in its commitment to the posting of workers directive, parliament rejects the commission's attempts to restrict member states' control measures in the guidelines. the member states have a special role to play. they shall ensure, through their control mechanisms, that the minimum working conditions for posted workers are respected. and they must be able to do so without restriction in the future. the commission will not be surprised by our criticism of the guidelines. the commission's intention with the guidelines is simply to re-introduce the content of articles 24 and 25 of the commission's original draft directive on services through the back door. the council has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. on the contrary, there is a broad alliance which is convinced that this european union can succeed in combining the two, and that this combined achievement is precisely what we call a social europe. we expect the commission to take the clear vote in february as seriously as the vote on this report and to work accordingly. that means that we expect the commission to take account of parliament's position as expressed in this report when evaluating the questionnaires it sent to the member states yesterday. the commission cannot call into question the member states' requirements for effective compliance with minimum working conditions. the european court of justice has also clarified that requirements necessary to ensure minimum working conditions do not preclude the freedom to provide services. and that is what this report makes clear. for example, practice has shown that, contrary to the commission's interpretation, in addition to working time certificates, wage records may be necessary to ensure the right of workers to their minimum wage. in future, it will also be essential to have a legal representative who is available as a negotiating partner for collective bargaining within the meaning of article 3 (8) of the posting of workers directive or as a representative to facilitate the effective service of official documents. measures to provide advance information and to inform about compliance with the minimum employment conditions are an important instrument for the implementation of the directive. in this sense, i hope that the commitment of so many to this report has really paid off and that the commission now fully accepts that equal pay for equal work in the same place can be guaranteed throughout the european union!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work. the posting directive has always been and remains a hotly contested issue. it is not just my country that has not been prepared to implement the scope of the directive in the economy as a whole. in germany, the directive applies only to the building and construction trades. i would like to focus the discussion on this report on three aspects: the rapporteur stresses the need to strengthen the social partners in order to prevent the undermining of standards laid down by collective agreements. this does not mean, however, that these agreements concluded between member states and collective bargaining partners actually guarantee subsistence income. in this context, it is necessary to examine the extent to which minimum standards correspond to the demand for decent work in the individual member states. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. however, in defining and clarifying the status of so-called pseudo-employed, we should bear in mind that these are the most excluded and the least well-paid. they must be given a status which gives them rights, including the right to a decent living. the justification for the freedom to provide services in the relevant directives is always based on the argument that the consumer should ultimately benefit. at first sight, the posting of workers directive does not seem to have much to do with consumer protection. i'm sure that's going to change. the consumer's interest is no longer limited to the quality of the product itself. the commission has already taken steps to protect consumers against imports of products containing child labour. the exchange of goods and services should have a social quality. the right to minimum standards of living, adequate working conditions and safety at work must be guaranteed to all those involved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in february, a compromise was reached on the services directive between the european parliament, the council and the commission. it deleted articles 24 and 25, which provided for only a superficial review of the companies and workers concerned. we have been able to ensure that both undeclared work and wage dumping are tackled more effectively. the commission has had to give up in the last few months. now it is trying to re-introduce the rejected positions through the back door of the posting of workers directive, going in some cases beyond what the ecj has established. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is treacherous and amounts to a disempowerment of us representatives of the people. guidelines are used by the ecj to give judgment in infringement proceedings and thus acquire a legally binding effect. the german government, our parties, the social partners, employers' and employees' associations do not accept the planned restrictions on our posting of workers act. other european countries have similar concerns. in poland, for example, there are hardly any local workers on the construction sites, but instead a lot of workers from non-eu countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not a mere 'space' for the free movement of goods. this is achieved by effective controls. each host country must have the right to request documents and to check employment conditions income, working hours, rest periods, safety and health. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. in addition, it must be possible to serve certificates of violation of the law. so we need authorized representatives of the sending company under the law of the respective host country. i welcome the report by mrs schroedter. it has accepted my amendments in compromise. i do not agree with her on one point, however, namely that the definition of the term 'employee' is being adjusted so that economically dependent selfemployed persons are included in the group of the pseudo-selfemployed. i hope that position will be taken by a majority tomorrow.
the european central bank mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour and pleasure for me to speak to you today. i am here to present to the european parliament the 2005 annual report of the european central bank. but as you know, the relationship between parliament and the european central bank goes beyond the specific obligations imposed by the treaty. as mrs berès has just said, we have established a very close dialogue over the years, and i should like to stress that this dialogue has continued to intensify until this year. so, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time i have spoken to you this month. similarly, my colleagues on the executive board of the ecb have been in close contact with the european parliament on various issues such as the reform of the imf, payment systems and clearing and settlement systems. we attach the greatest importance to contacts on these matters. i will first give you a brief overview of the economic and monetary developments in 2005 and explain the monetary policy measures taken by the ecb. i would then like to make some comments on the points and suggestions you have made in your draft resolution to the ecb annual report 2005. mr president, i would like to let me first of all welcome the assessment of the economic and monetary affairs committee with regard to the ecb's monetary policy in 2005 and beyond. as recognised in the draft report, the ecb's monetary policy which is designed to fulfil our primary objective of maintaining price stability has continued to be successful in anchoring inflation expectations at levels consistent with price stability, despite a number of challenges mentioned by mrs berès, relating in particular to the continued strong surge in oil prices until the most recent period. as already emphasised on several occasions, such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary policy to make an ongoing contribution towards supporting sustainable economic growth and job creation in the euro area, fully in line with article 105 of the ec treaty. in this respect, let me emphasise that the ecb's open and transparent communication is a key element in guiding market expectations. in particular, my introductory statement at the press conference after the first governing council meeting each month provides a clear view, on the part of the governing council, on the current monetary policy stance in real time. therefore, we make the outcome of our deliberations public. as such, the introductory statement is comparable with what other central banks call summary minutes. in 2005, the ecb's monetary policy operated in an environment of increasingly improving economic conditions. while real gdp growth remained moderate in the first half of the year, in an environment of heightened uncertainties surrounding domestic demand, the pace of economic activity gradually strengthened during the second half of the year, from around 1.2% on average year-on-year in the first half of 2005 to around 1.7% on average year-on-year in the second half. overall, real gdp in the euro area grew by 1.4%. as regards price developments, annual hicp inflation averaged 2.2% in 2005, compared with 2.1% in each of the two preceding years. while annual hicp inflation eased to 2.0% in the first half of 2005, mainly reflecting base effects, hicp inflation rates accelerated to levels significantly above 2% in the second half, reaching a peak of 2.6% in september, mainly on the back of substantial increases in energy prices. thus, reviewing the ecb's monetary policy decisions in 2005 and early 2006, it is useful to split this period into two parts. in the first half of 2005, against the background of subdued inflation developments and with inflation expectations for the euro area firmly anchored at levels in line with price stability, the governing council concluded that it remained appropriate to keep interest rates at their historically low levels. at the same time, the governing council was constantly alert to the materialization of upside risks to price stability, as indicated by both the ecb's economic and monetary analyses. in the second half of 2005 and early 2006, the likelihood that average annual hicp inflation could remain above 2% over the medium term increased and a spillover to inflation expectations had to be avoided. this scenario of elevated inflation rates remained subject to previously identified upside risks, notably further increases in oil prices and indirect taxes and, more particularly, potential second-round effects in wage and price-setting. it was also confirmed by the monetary analysis, given strong monetary growth, robust credit expansion and ample liquidity. as a consequence, by the end of 2005, the regular cross-checking of the ecb's economic and monetary analyses indicated that an adjustment of the very accommodative stance of the ecb's monetary policy was clearly warranted in order to contain upside risks to price stability and preserve the firm anchoring of long-term inflation expectations in the euro area. the governing council of the ecb therefore decided in december to raise the key ecb interest rates by 25 basis points, after two and a half years of maintaining these rates at historically low levels. since then the governing council has continued to withdraw monetary accommodation, thereby setting the minimum bid rate of the main refinancing operations of the eurosystem at 3.25% by now. turning to recent developments, all the main indicators of economic activity in the euro area that have become available in the course of 2006 confirm the governing council's assessment that economic growth has gained momentum and, in addition, become more broad-based and sustained, mainly supported by domestic demand. with regard to consumer prices, annual hicp inflation rates, notwithstanding their decline in most recent months, will remain elevated, at levels above 2% on average in 2006. as regards 2007, inflation risks remain on the upside. these risks include, in particular, a stronger than expected rise in wages on the back of improving labour markets and a stronger than expected pass-through of past oil price rises. the assessment of upside risks prevailing is confirmed when cross-checked with the monetary analysis, given the ongoing dynamism of monetary and credit growth, ample liquidity and, from a medium-term perspective, a persistent upward trend in the underlying rate of monetary expansion. this has been noted in the commission report. monetary developments therefore require enhanced monitoring, in particular against the background of improved economic conditions and strong property market developments in many parts of the euro area. as i said publicly on behalf of the governing council after our last decision, if our assumptions and baseline scenario are confirmed, further withdrawal of monetary accommodation will remain warranted. the governing council will therefore continue to monitor all developments very closely, in order to ensure price stability over the medium to longer term. as regards fiscal policy, budgetary developments in 2005 and 2006 and plans for 2007 point to further, albeit slow, improvements in budget balances. however, this should not give rise to complacency. it remains essential that fiscal consolidation is strengthened in the current upswing and that pro-cyclical policies are avoided, which would boost confidence of both the markets and the public. as regards structural reforms, i welcome the view of the european parliament that comprehensive structural reforms are needed to raise the potential growth rate of the euro area and underpin the momentum of the ongoing economic recovery. in this respect, the reform measures initiated in the context of the renewed lisbon strategy were a welcome additional step in the right direction. the successful implementation of national reforms aimed at removing rigidities and inefficiencies in euro area countries would improve the smooth functioning of emu and facilitate the conduct of the ecb's single monetary policy. in your motion for a resolution you raise a large number of issues of relevance to the ecb and i would like to assure you that we will consider them with great care. i would like to share our assessment on two issues straight away, in view of their topical nature and the exchanges of views i and my fellow members of the executive board had with you on those points. in the motion for a resolution, the ecb is called upon to carry out further analysis in the area of hedge funds a point you have underlined. amid the increasing attention being paid to the activities of hedge funds, i think that it would be unfair not to mention their role in enhancing market liquidity, providing significant diversification opportunities for investors and fostering financial innovation. that being said, it is clear that there are potential risks to financial stability from their very rapidly growing presence in the financial system and it has yet to be tested whether they would amplify market volatility or pose greater counterparty risks in a less benign financial market environment. against that background, the ecb will definitely follow up on your request for further analysis. it is possible that we will conclude that there is a real case for enhancing the current framework, which essentially relies on the vigilance of the financial institutions that are themselves under supervision with regard to their counterparty risks on the hedge funds. but i also note that any such enhancement should be agreed at the level of the international community and, in particular, on the basis of an appropriate transatlantic discussion. as regards payment and settlement issues, let me first thank the european parliament for the support expressed for the implementation by november 2007 of the target2 system. being an integrated large-value payment system, target2 will provide for efficiency gains and improved liquidity management by banks. in this regard, i would like to refer to the increased pressure also to have an integrated platform for the settlement of securities transactions in euro. the eurosystem is therefore currently examining, in coordination with the european commission and in close cooperation with the market, the feasibility of setting up a eurosystem infrastructure for the provision of securities settlement services in central bank money. a decision on whether to offer such a service, referred to as target2-securities, is expected early in 2007. in the field of retail payments, we strongly support the efforts to establish a single euro payment area sepa. we welcome the european commission's initiative for a directive on payment services and i warmly welcome the european parliament's contribution to a swift adoption of this directive to assist the banking industry in its implementation of sepa payment instruments as from 1 january 2008. i thank you very much for your attention. i am now available to answer your questions. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not let me start by saying that we are in full agreement with the european central bank's performance in the last year the report is due on the whole. it is particularly important that the independence of the central bank has been and is guaranteed. the moderate interest rate policy has been shown to have contributed to the recovery, although the moderate interest rate policy has been criticised very often in recent years. in this respect, we believe that the current historically very low level of interest rates can be raised somewhat if the situation so requires in order to prevent inflationary tendencies. we also welcome the ecb's views on the need for structural reforms in the member states, which the ecb has repeatedly called for. this is true because inflation would particularly harm the middle and lower income groups. these people would be poorer because of higher inflation. we are against it. we also welcome the clear statement by the president of the ecb on the development of the european stock market. we must ensure that european stock exchanges are consolidated within europe and not simply taken over from outside, for example from the united states. it is the only way to prevent american sec regulations and the sarbanes-oxley act from entering europe through the back door. we have good and transparent market regimes which are tailored to our european situation and these should not be undermined. as regards the report, we have been very firm in our support of the idea that the ecb should not be politicised. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not misled by the fact that the european parliament is not a political body. this would lead to politicization, because the votes would then be discussed. we also oppose a publicly debated nomination process, as it would discourage candidates who are qualified. we therefore consider these two things to be unacceptable, because they represent a politicisation of the ecb. on the other hand, we would point out that if the ecb becomes a market participant in settlement, supply and delivery transactions within target2, it will also have to face appropriate corporate governance. one of these has yet to be developed. the independence of the ecb is thus preserved. the result is a stable economic policy with a call for structural reforms in europe.
mr president, mr president of the european central bank, you are a very good man. the epp group supports the european central bank in its monetary stability policy. we should not be tempted to take the ecb to task for areas where the nation states are failing, such as economic and social reforms. the ecb cannot do this alone. she can't afford to. it is necessary that the nation states finally do their job. and we stand for the independence of the european central bank, the political independence of the european central bank, the independence of monetary policy, and this from the very beginning of the selection procedure. i do not know what the outcome of today's votes will be, but i can tell you that the european people's party is in favour of not politicizing the selection procedure and that transparency in the form it is being asked for is not helpful. the european central bank has a very different approach to its dialogue and uses it in the same way as other central banks around the world. that is why there is widespread support for this. i would also like to say on the subject of independence that we are fighting for the independence of monetary policy. but i also hope that the european central bank is clear that it should not over-extend the issue of independence. we have been discussing the subject of clearing and settlement with the european central bank for many years, in particular with mrs tumpel-gugerell, and i would just like to remind you that the european central bank has started a dialogue on clearing and settlement with cesr and is now entering into a dialogue with market participants. i want to make it clear that we are not against dialogue. the european central bank may well be the right course to take in the end! we are not concerned with the material assessment, but this path of the european central bank becoming part of the market cannot be followed without supervision and without feedback from the policy. that is why the urgent appeal is made and i hope that the vote today will be as we all predicted: we need governance, we need a set of rules in this area! it is not possible for parliament and the commission to think about whether we should create a directive, whether we should find a framework for this, and then the european central bank to say: 'it is none of our business, we are going to do what we think is right.' don't stretch it here. we are on your side on monetary policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank president trichet and his colleagues for the good cooperation they have shown so far. the ecb's annual report is a very important document for the european parliament. it is the basis for the discussion of fundamental issues of monetary policy. it is not for nothing that the chairman of the econ committee has personally taken on the task of reporting. the ecb's role and its main task, however, are subject to continuous controversy. we just had another one. it is therefore not surprising that the committee was able to achieve a relatively uniform opinion only by numerous compromise proposals. i personally regret that the socialist group abstained in the final vote in the committee despite these compromises. this shows the difficulties it still has with some of the points in the report. the liberals support the independence of the ecb without question. the bank's main task is and remains the stability of the euro. the bank has so far done very well in this task. both independence and price stability must not be compromised under any circumstances. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the timetable provided for the two reports by mr mulder and mr goepel to be discussed in the morning, to be completed and then to be put to the vote. we now have exactly eighteen minutes until the vote. it is absolutely unfair to our farmers and agricultural workers to start such a debate and then to conclude this very important issue of 20% voluntary modulation - that is, a fifth of the direct payments due to farmers should be shifted or reduced - perhaps in the afternoon with some random vote. i would ask that this debate be postponed until november. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not when do we want to have the debate? but not now, not in the last fifteen minutes! i am asking on behalf of my group and my colleagues that we also postpone the debate. i know that this has to be properly requested 24 hours before the debate. but 24 hours before that, i didn't know that the timetable in this house was not being kept. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to support the rapporteur's motion on behalf of my group. looking at the report, some uninitiated persons might conclude that this is more of a formality. but behind this, as mr parish has already said, is the fundamental consideration of the financing of agricultural policy in the next few years and also the position of parliament on this question. that is why we must discuss this at the right time and have enough time for it. we can't just tear it apart like this. i therefore support this motion and ask you to accept it and to inform the bureau of the significance of this debate. perhaps the bureau is not yet aware of this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to endorse the rapporteur's proposal and also what mr swoboda has said. as rapporteur on financial planning, i would point out that this unfortunate proposal is based on the conclusions of the european council and that the commission was obliged to draw up a proposal on this so-called voluntary modulation. we have expressly reserved our position in the course of the budgetary planning negotiations for the legislative procedure. that is what the rapporteur is now noticing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to thank all the political parties and groups. (laughter)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think you should give mr brok the floor first, because he has something to say about this. i'd like to comment on that. i therefore ask that mr brok be allowed to speak.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me make a comment, because i would like to refute the comments made by the group in the back: the rights of all members of the house shall be guaranteed in the same way. we can only undertake a trip to such a region if it is balanced and professionally prepared in all respects. for technical reasons, it was not possible to meet the planned deadline this time. the trip was to be made up at a later date. we should not allow the le pen group to insert something that is not right. i would like to reject this in the strongest possible terms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the present resolution establishes a link between the hungarian revolution and the other resistance movements in eastern europe. this does not take into account the uprising of 17 june 1953 in the gdr, when strikes and demonstrations took place in more than 700 towns and cities, which were put down by soviet tanks. i would therefore like to add the following to recital j: 'recognising the historical and political link between the hungarian revolution in october 1956 and various other forms of resistance and resistance movements, such as the mass demonstrations in east germany in june 1953, the poznań demonstrations in poland in june 1956, the prague spring of 1968, the birth of the solidarity movement in poland in 1980 and democracy movements in the former ussr, notably those of the baltic peoples;'
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the european parliament's role in the european community. i don't want to waste our time; the former president has done enough.
in writing. the ecb has repeatedly argued that price stability is the key to more jobs and growth. price stability exists in the euro area. aggregate price increases of less than 2% are deflationary in many sectors. however, once even the faintest hint of economic recovery in the euro area is visible, the ecb, blindly fixated on price stability, has only one answer: raise interest rates. although there is not the slightest sign of inflationary tendencies. although mass unemployment remains unchanged and wages are rising less than productivity, this must lead to serious economic imbalances in the long term. although even capital markets with extremely low long-term interest rates are signalling that they do not expect a stronger rise in prices or a sustained economic recovery in the future. and if you look across the atlantic, they have little reason to be. the report in its original form had the courage to take a critical position. unfortunately, after the vote in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, very little of it remains. critical words would be more than necessary. we need a different monetary policy in europe. one that is guided by social responsibility rather than monetarist dogmas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
a writer. the commission is not another deadly incident has occurred on the china-nepal border. on september 30, when a group of tibetans tried to escape through nangpa pass to nepal, chinese border guards opened fire on these unarmed civilians. seventeen-year-old nun kelsang namtso was killed, many were injured, 30 people were arrested, including women and nine children. i agree with those who spoke before me: this drama would never have come to light if it had not been for the chance of a romanian camera team being on the scene filming the event. the pictures were shown in prime time on dutch television. despite the document, beijing claims that there were no deaths, only injuries, and that the tibetans opened fire and the chinese were forced to defend themselves. we condemn the brutal actions of the chinese security forces and call on the authorities to treat the prisoners with human dignity and to respect international agreements. china has signed the un convention on the rights of the child, which protects minors from state arbitrariness and detention. the nangpa incident must be investigated as soon as possible and those responsible must be held to account. these attacks on defenceless civilians are on the agenda of the next eu-china human rights dialogue. i would ask the commission representatives to look into the matter for themselves. the tibetan welfare centre in kathmandu, which we visited as an ad hoc delegation of the european parliament on our trip to nepal in july, is a good place to visit. ask the refugees who arrive there about their painful experiences. get active now! (applause from the centre)
a writer. the commission is not guatemala has a long and bloody history of violence, which cannot be judged one-sidedly. there were terrible dictatorships and repressive elements, but there was also an equally cruel and bloody revolutionary movement of the tupamaros. it is more than three decades since the eyes of the whole of germany were fixed on this part of central america, when the german ambassador, karl graf spreti, whose son is one of my collaborators, was kidnapped and murdered. karl graf spreti was one of the great pioneers of europe, he was also a member of the bundestag for my party. as a diplomat, he was innocently abducted and brutally executed in the jungle. since then, this country has been going through a period of terrible crisis. we must therefore try very carefully, but clearly, to support the peace process there by clearly condemning those who have used violence as the authorities, but also those who have used violence there abusing the word 'freedom'. guatemala has also been the scene of brutal genocide. the resolution is thankfully clear on this point. an ancient civilization like the maya, about 10% of them were driven out, tens of thousands were murdered. we must also use this opportunity to sharpen our definition of genocide. it is often said that genocide is only justified when a group is systematically exterminated. i'm not going to. genocide is also when an ethnic group is deprived of its livelihood, when its homeland is taken away by expulsion and by murderous violence, as has happened to many ethnic groups, both the maya and smaller groups in guatemala. there's no statute of limitations on crimes like this. we must therefore hold those responsible to account with all the consequences and not just go over the agenda in a flash.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is important that the european parliament does not ignore human rights violations all over the world and acts accordingly. this is also true after the terrible events in andishchan, uzbekistan, in may 2005. we as a democratic institution must not allow human rights to be trampled on anywhere in the world! but we must not allow diplomatic relations to be jeopardized because of our interparliamentary cooperation. we must look at the current situation in uzbekistan in the light of past events. the present resolution can only be based on that. last month a delegation for relations with the countries of central asia, of which i am a member, was scheduled to visit uzbekistan. this trip did not take place because the uzbek authorities were uncooperative, but because too few colleagues here in the house were interested in such a trip. we have no clear picture of the current situation in uzbekistan as regards human rights, democratization and the establishment of an independent judiciary. we have to rely on third party information. don't get me wrong. i also believe that human rights and democratization efforts are often trampled underfoot in uzbekistan and that, in this respect, we really need to think about the continuation of the existing sanctions, particularly as regards an arms embargo. however, i do not think that it is in the least appropriate to extend the sanctions by, for example, banning the president of uzbekistan, islam karimov, from obtaining an eu visa. this would amount to a break in diplomatic relations. that can't be our goal. there is no recent incident that justifies such a harsh political response. i therefore urge you to support and accept my amendment. if i lose this attempt at compromise, i shall end up voting against the resolution.
a writer. the commission is not in the report by reporters without borders, uzbekistan is now ranked 158th, interestingly even behind countries like belarus and russia. the human rights situation in uzbekistan has been discussed here on several occasions, particularly after the andischan incident. the question is, how does the european union react to this? we have said that if there are to be sanctions, they must include the transfer of arms and the transfer of military personnel. it is very important that the german military base termes in uzbekistan be closed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is why we say: this is the litmus test for human rights policy here in the european parliament too! that is why we have tabled this amendment, which calls for the closure of the german military base at termes. this base is used by all nato countries, but also by those nato countries which are also eu members, and therefore it must be closed!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would not be sitting here today without the uzbek people, because my grandfather was a russian prisoner as an austrian soldier in world war i and only survived the cold winter near tashkent thanks to the hospitality of the uzbek people. i think we all have a deep sympathy for the uzbek people, but that is precisely why we condemn the suppression of human rights there and why we regret that there is a regime that does not meet our human rights standards in the slightest. i am in favour of a clear condemnation of these human rights violations and also of the extension of sanctions. i am not in favour of any additional entry bans as called for in paragraph 2. i do not think we can solve the problems by flattering mr putin at one summit and perhaps inviting the chinese president at the next, but then taking it out on the little putins or the little dictators! that is why i recommend reasonable standards. extension of sanctions: yes condemnation of human rights violations: yes. but to impose entry bans on all the world's leaders on thursday afternoon is demagogy, not serious politics!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sorry, but we have tabled an amendment to paragraph 2. it would have to be voted on before the original is voted on, even if the original is changed orally. first of all, we must vote on the amendment which would replace the old text.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to replace sound and future-oriented decision with considered decision with a view to improved future relations. it is more specific in this way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that the commission has presented this report and that it is watching the fate of the euro area with interest. but i am also pleased to note that mr juncker is the one who is speaking to us from a position of responsibility for the euro-zone members. what's the situation? we are for the first time closer to the growth target we set in lisbon. we now have 2.8% growth in the eurozone, almost the 3% that was the basis for lisbon. what is the challenge for the eurozone in this situation? what is the point? are we going to let this be just a little breeze, just a cyclical upswing that's gone the day after tomorrow? or do we want to structurally make sure that we get a long breath, that we get a chance to create a long-term boom that lasts, and that is with the people who do make the economy -- not just the data that makes the economy, but the people. confidence is built? which is why i think we need to get a move on. the key now is to make smart investments in the eurozone. it is right to consolidate budgets, but this must not be a mantra we can indulge in, but the upswing must be used now to embark on a policy of intelligent modernisation so that we have a chance of seriously reducing unemployment. that's in the report, too. finally, i would like to thank our co-rapporteur and shadow rapporteur, dariusz rosati, who has brought the social democratic points into this debate, and i would also like to thank my colleague, mr garcía-margallo y marfil, who has not for the first time, with his report, made a significant contribution to the macroeconomic debate in this house.
member of the commission. mr president, the serious incident on the continental european electricity network on saturday, 4 november led to blackouts over most of the system. we know from e.on that the fault originated in northern germany, where switching off an extra high-voltage line in lower saxony later led to the switching off of lines across europe. e.on had carried out a planned deactivation of an overhead line and this operation had also been done with a previous line. the incident led to the splitting of the union for the coordination of transmission of electricity network into three zones: west, east and south-east. the western zone was short of power and the eastern zone had too much power. to cope with the lack of power in the western zone, automatic devices had to switch customers off in the countries affected. the worst affected countries were france, where five million customers were reported to have been cut off. in germany, millions of customers were affected, as in belgium, the netherlands, italy and spain, where some hundreds of thousands of customers were without electricity. affected countries also included austria, slovenia, portugal and switzerland. the incident was resolved after an hour and the power supply was re-established. the incident could have had much greater consequences but the cooperation between transmission system operators and the size of the network made it possible to supply customers very quickly. the precise cause of the failure is not yet known. i have asked the european regulators to provide a report on what actually caused this blackout. that involves analysing a huge amount of information before the blackout and after the blackout, so at this stage i cannot report to you on what actually triggered it. the ucte investigation committee will also provide a report, as will the european transmission system operators, who are investigating the incident. as soon as we have a full report and a full-scale investigation has been held into this incident, i will report to parliament in an appropriate form on what actually triggered it; but as far as i can see three lessons should be learned from it. in 2003 a huge-scale blackout had already occurred in italy and it is clear that the measures taken afterwards were not sufficient, in particular in three areas. one proposal, therefore, is that we should set up a formal european grouping of transmission system operators which will have the task of putting forward common positions on issues identified by the commission and in particular network security standards. we should also institute a mechanism to ensure that these standards are formally binding on network operators. it is also clear that much more investment is needed in transmission system networks to provide for an adequate response when such incidents happen, but most importantly to ensure that lines are not overcharged. i am very pleased that you put this question on the agenda of this house, as it is a very important issue. this was not a natural disaster but a system failure, and we should analyse it and draw the necessary lessons from it. as soon as the report is ready, the commission will not hesitate to draw the necessary conclusions and take the necessary action.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. first of all, thank you for the sobriety of the reporting: one hour later, the problem was solved. that too is an argument that needs to be made. secondly, i agree with you that we must have a well-founded report so that we do not rush to conclusions about what might have gone wrong. thirdly, we politicians must also ask ourselves whether we are not acting in a somewhat contradictory way. on the one hand we are demanding more investment in electricity grids and on the other hand we are threatening the network operators with a property unbundling. we cannot expect anyone to invest in networks if we are simultaneously threatening to take them away. that doesn't make much sense! fourth, we are increasingly demanding renewable energy, and we know that with wind power, we are contributing to the fact that reliability in the grids is a problem. i am not against wind power, but it is not surprising that such problems arise! fifthly, we are right to demand more and more interconnectors because we want international connections. that's right, you're right. but perhaps we are not paying enough attention to the need to ensure that the networks behind and in front of the interconnection points are adequately prepared at the same time or as a precondition. i hope that this case will help us to deal with energy policy issues in a more sober and objective way, so that we do not make contradictory demands that cannot be met. perhaps this is a contribution we can make. otherwise, i look forward to a precise evaluation when the facts are on the table. then we can consider whether and what political consequences must follow. some of the things that were said in the days after the blackout were hasty and not so much based on a thorough analysis as a snapshot. thank you very much for your efforts, mr. piebalgs.
member of the commission. mr president, for the time being the quota system provides some kind of stability for the european market, allowing successful full implementation of the 2003 reform without undue disturbances. however, if the milk sector is to meet the challenge of competitiveness in the future and prosper in a more liberal world, the milk quota system will gradually become a less adequate instrument for achieving our goals. i have therefore decided that a debate on the future of the quota system should take place within the health check process in 2008. the most promising long-term scenario for the european dairy sector is one without quotas. this would allow the more efficient producers to benefit from growing markets while avoiding the huge cost, especially for young farmers, of obtaining production rights. the value of the quota system varies tremendously between the member states. quota levels per member state are fixed until 31 march 2015, as mr freitas rightly said. after that date, in the absence of a proposal from the commission and a decision taken in the council, the system of milk quotas will end. that is important. if no decision is taken, the system will expire on 31 march 2015. were the council to take a decision to continue the quota system after 2015, this should allow for a gradual transition from the current rules to a scenario without production limits. it is in everybody’s interest to have a soft landing in order to avoid disturbances to the sector. when i travel around the member states and talk to farmers, they ask for predictability. we owe it to the farming sector to give them a clear signal, and not a last-minute one on 1 january 2015, as to whether the quota system is to continue or not. we need to provide this predictability, and in this scenario specific measures should perhaps be introduced during a transitional period in order to make the milk quota system much more flexible than it is today. however, it is still too early to take the appropriate measures. we will all have a much clearer idea of the situation, and of the different options for change, once the dairy market outlook report is completed at the end of next year. that report will be presented to parliament and the council and will look at the overall objectives and results of the 2003 reform, namely market orientation, competitiveness and the sustainability of the cap in political, environmental and economic and budgetary terms. i hope we can have a solid discussion on the future and on how to provide this predictability, which i consider so important, not just for the younger generation but also for those already in business.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. i am grateful to you for your comments, and i would also like to thank mr freitas for the initiative he has taken in this oral question. commissioner, as you have already mentioned on several occasions, the current situation - the decision to maintain the quota until 31 march 2015 - and the question of what will happen after that is causing a great deal of debate, which is good on the one hand, but on the other is causing a great deal of uncertainty for farmers, especially in certain regions, who are dependent on milk and on quotas, as they believe. it is good to hear from you - as we have just heard - a clear statement in which you state the facts - the quota has been decided up to this point - and in which you also say that we should discuss in good time how we want to deal with the situation. if we want to continue to have a quota, farmers must know this and be involved in the same way as when we decide to leave the system, as is actually intended now. the next question is: what instruments can be used in the present financial situation to prepare for this exit? an increase in the milk quota, for example, may be under discussion. i doubt whether this is the right way. how do we deal with the option for young farmers who need planning certainty and who should then, if possible, not invest a lot of money in quotas but should invest their money in restructuring and in the competitiveness of the farms? and how do we deal with spaces that are pure green spaces, where we need dairy farming to preserve them as such? these are usually very beautiful, very interesting areas in terms of agriculture, these are areas where there are usually very few other employment opportunities and we have to support them in this way.
member of the commission. mr president, before going into the content of the reports i want to thank the rapporteurs, lutz goepel and jan mulder, along with the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for their efforts in drafting the two reports. i should like to start with mr goepel’s report. i have carefully taken note of the committee on agriculture’s position, which is to reject the proposal concerning voluntary modulation and call on the commission to withdraw the proposal. before addressing some of the report’s points i should like to recall why i presented the proposal and what the guiding principle was for the drafting of it. the commission proposal is a response to a request made by the european council last december to present a proposal on voluntary modulation. such a modulation was a means to enable member states to transfer funds from the first pillar of the common agricultural policy into the second pillar in order to reinforce the rural development budget, an objective with which most of you would agree. i have expressed my concerns about certain aspects of the council agreement, in particular that it would apply both to direct payments and to market-related expenditure as well as the fact that it derogates significantly from the basic rules of rural development expenditure. the commission tries to address those concerns to the greatest extent possible and ensure as much coherence as possible with the rules governing compulsory modulation and rural development spending. that is in line with the commission’s declaration on the interinstitutional agreement on the financial perspectives. with regard to some arguments in mr goepel’s report, it is said that voluntary modulation would lead to a distortion of competition. i do not share that view. both the single farm payment and rural development expenditure are considered as non-trade distorting under the wto rules. it is claimed that there is no proper impact assessment. firstly, in the short time available during the meeting last december that simply was not feasible. secondly, it would have encountered methodological difficulties since we have no idea which member states would apply voluntary modulation, and if they did so, we have no idea of the percentages they would apply. so, the proposal does not go against the principles of rural development, such as national cofinancing. we propose optional cofinancing as a compromise, to meet the expectations of the council. let me now turn to the mulder report on the proposed amendments to regulation (ec) no 1698/2005. the text is a legal translation of what was decided last september by the heads of state and government in relation to the so-called ‘capping provision’, which is common to all structural instruments, including the rural development fund, and is also reproduced in the general regulation on the structural funds. moreover, the text reflects the non-cofinancing requirement for an amount of eur 320 million as part of the rural development fund allocation to portugal, which was also agreed at last december’s council meeting. i have taken note of the draftsman’s position, in particular on cofinancing. i agree that the exemption of eur 320 million for portugal from the requirement of national cofinancing should be an exception in rural development, since cofinancing is a basic rule in rural development. it also means co-responsibility for expenditure and it is an essential element of the subsidiarity that is applied in the policy implemented in the various member states or regions. i look forward to a fruitful discussion on this issue. i will respond at the end of the debate.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank all my colleagues from all the political groups who have helped me to find a suitable framework for this debate, which is of great importance to parliament and to european farmers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has submitted a proposal, following a decision by the council, which, of course, as is often the case in agricultural debates, is also present, to transfer 20% of direct agricultural payments from the first to the second pillar of the common agricultural policy and to spend them there without any obligation to co-finance. this is a concession of the council majority and nolens volens of the commission in the context of the budgetary compromise of december 2005. the commissioner has basically confirmed this. the parliament has already made its reservations clear in the interinstitutional agreement on the financial perspective. the agriculture committee clearly rejected this proposal - by only three votes against - and even rejected the draft law unanimously. it is not just a question of technical policy differences, but of parliament's position as an institution in the forthcoming debates on the rearrangement of the community budget. all the institutions agreed in the budget compromise that all community expenditure, including in particular agricultural expenditure after 2013, would be scrutinised and that parliament would be fully involved in this process at an early stage. the council is now adopting a far-reaching reorganization of agricultural financing through the back door! the only thing parliament can do is nod, because there was no prior consultation with parliament. instead, the council has decided on a very wide-ranging reallocation of funds, which narrows the scope for the 2008-2009 debate to the point where there is hardly any room for serious discussion. we cannot tolerate this in parliament if we want to be taken seriously in the future, and the proposal is also questionable from a budgetary point of view! the agricultural policy should be: the proposal is not accompanied by any impact assessment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this, together with the reductions due to compulsory modulation and those generally expected after the accession of bulgaria and romania, means a reduction of payments of about one third compared with 2003 for the member states wishing to apply this voluntary modulation! this is not accompanied by structural change in agriculture, but it is a clear structural break! the livelihood of many thousands of farms in rural areas would be threatened. our farmers need planning certainty, and everyone agrees with that. in the absence of an impact assessment by the council and the commission, we have commissioned the relevant opinions. the reports show that there will be a massive distortion of competition and unlawful discrimination against the farmers concerned. they also show that modulation does not promote the community's objectives in rural areas, but rather seriously jeopardises them. the council has not yet responded in any way to the legitimate concerns of european farmers, and there has been no discussion of the consequences. this is a completely unusual behaviour in the european union and is clearly inappropriate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. please look at the next meeting on november 14th of this week. we all want to strengthen the countryside. we have made proposals worth discussing to solve the financing problems in rural areas. i remember the report by mr böge. the council has chosen not to examine these proposals further. let us not give the council a hand in this too! if there is to be a paradigm shift in agricultural policy, it will only be after a transparent and open debate in which parliament can also play a decisive role, because this proposal is legally, materially and politically flawed and does not solve any of the problems of rural areas! if we want to be taken seriously in future debates on the budgetary assessment of agricultural policy, we should reject this proposal outright. i hope that after the vote in our house the council will finally enter into a thorough discussion of the issues. my colleagues in the committee and i are happy to do this, but the council must act. however, at this stage, the hope is not very strong.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing the second pillar, rural economic development, which is of great importance here in parliament and, if the commission is to be believed, also in the commission. the council itself has repeatedly stressed in its speeches that this must be the future of european agricultural policy. and now we are rejecting a proposal which ostensibly provides a few billion for rural development. it is difficult to justify this rejection on the basis of money. but what we're being offered here is indecent. the forces which have imposed this are responsible for the fact that 20 billion is missing from the budget proposed by parliament and the commission in the field of rural development; they have insisted that the budget has been cut - even at the expense of this qualitative line - and now they say: 'ok, take 20% from the first pillar, and you can replenish what we have taken from you.' i call this indecent. these forces are not the friends of european agriculture, nor are they the friends of the countryside of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not the proposal made by parliament's committee on medium-term financial planning, where we said that cofinancing in the first pillar would have made it possible to allocate funds for the second pillar. we could have also limited the cofinancing of the second pillar to 25%, so that the funds would have been better spent. all these proposals were rejected and now we have the 20%. but, commissioner, this financial plan has been approved by the commission and - i must say this bitterly - by parliament. we have accepted this blackmail in order not to jeopardize the future of the european union in the financial field. but that must not be allowed to stand in the way, and i ask you, commissioner, what are you going to do to ensure that this rural development is not starved to death? what are we doing in parliament, how are we managing in our groups, to make it clear that this future of rural development cannot happen only through reshuffling, but that there must be an independent financial development of this line, as is the case in the other structural funds? i would like to hear your answer here today, so that the commission will show a little more flag in our next negotiations on this subject and we in parliament may perhaps put ourselves on a little more of a back foot.
the next item is the annual report of the court of auditors. i am pleased to welcome the president of the court of auditors, mr weber.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. parliament is responsible for the control of the commission's budget and the budgets of the other institutions. in order to achieve a positive relief for the individual institutions, it must be clear that the money of european taxpayers has been used properly here too. there's a lot to discuss. if we are serious about our control function, we must also examine expenditure which we have hitherto ignored, for example in the area of the common foreign and security policy of the council, which is unfortunately not present today. in close consultation with the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, our colleague elmar brok, i am quite conscious of mentioning this area today. i call on the council to cooperate transparently from now on. as far as the committee of the regions is concerned, several issues will need to be examined more intensively. i would like to mention the poor implementation of the internal auditor's recommendations and the questionable application of the correction coefficient, as well as the complete lack of attention paid to this issue in the committee of the regions. the building policy of the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee and the court of justice raises questions which also need to be answered. and there are many other points to be clarified. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i wonder why neither the ombudsman nor the data protection officer has concluded an agreement with olaf. these questions will also be answered. i call on all concerned to answer the questions in a transparent manner. help us to get a comprehensive picture in parliament and to work together on ways of improving it. it is only on this basis that we can grant discharge for 2005.
president of the court of auditors. i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the members who have spoken very kindly about our report, in particular mr staes, mr lundgren, mr pomés ruiz and mr bösch. i would like to return to mr kallas. he complained that the media had always focused on fraud. i can assure you that we are fully on the side of the commission, as are many of the members who have spoken here, such as mr jørgensen, mr fazakas and mr titford. we can't have the same music playing over and over again, cheating, cheating, cheating. it is unjustified, it is harmful and therefore unnecessary. we have a policy. i would like to return to the second aspect, namely the recommendation of the british house of lords, which mr kallas said we should follow: we have a system. we can't find any fraud in the report. fraud is determined by judges, not by the court of auditors. so as far as the report from the british house of lords is concerned, we shall look at it very carefully. we just got it yesterday at noon. we have an agreement with the commission - i was involved in it myself at the time - that if we find any suspicion of fraud, the matter will be referred to olaf. as i said, there is a procedure. i can emphasize what mr garriga polledo said: cooperation with our sister authorities is a very important aspect and i thank you for your kind wishes for warsaw. we'd be happy to take her. mr mulder asked why there is no unqualified confirmation again. the answer is quite simple: there is still a large lack of adequate risk management at the level of the basic operations. only when this is the case can a positive das be arrived at. again, the error rate would only result in the media highlighting the fraud again. mr staes, i am very grateful to you for saying that if you improve the internal control systems, you will get a positive das. you also gave some examples; i can only really underline that. i have been very clear before ecofin and as far as the british house of lords is concerned there are a number of problems, such as counter-signing and the blacklist. we received the report yesterday and we have to analyse it very carefully. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the issues he has raised are certainly of great importance and i am happy to continue the dialogue with him that has already begun. that basically answered most of the questions.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, i should like to thank all the members for their remarks. this is just part of the process, and next week will see the start of more detailed hearings on the implementation of our budget. in response to some of the remarks, i would like to say that the commission is not pointing the finger at anyone. it is seeking to achieve an accurate picture enabling adequate, balanced evaluation of the implementation of the european budget. we are fully responsible for everything we do, and we are willing to bear that responsibility. however, it would be unrealistic to expect, in response to an analysis of the implementation of the european budget the thrust of which is that the commission is bad, for the commission to say that it is not bad, but even worse. that would be inappropriate, although we fully recognise our weak points. internal policy issues will be the most vulnerable area of our 2005 activities. during the three budgetary discharge processes in which i have been involved, i have seen real improvements and i know what can be done to improve the situation further. we will do our utmost to improve that situation, and are looking for comprehensive, adequate professional evaluation of the implementation of the eu budget in all its aspects, be this its achievements or weaknesses, errors or fraud, etc. it is our aim and desire to show everybody that although the machinery is huge and could be improved, things are not bad at all. being familiar with the experiences of member states in the sphere of public administration, and knowing what happens in different member states and in other international organisations, i can state that things are indeed not bad at all. it is our desire for the general public, members of parliament and the court of auditors to also see this side of our activities. concerning mr mulder’s question on the financial perspective and the idea of increased participation by member states in this process – the question of national declarations – i welcome the change in stance. when we started discussing this issue, only one or two member states shared the attitude that member states could take more responsibility. that attitude is changing but, as i know from my limited experience in european affairs, this will obviously take time. we are pleased that the member states have agreed to provide a summary of the declarations of paying agencies, which is a step forward, and we are working with the member states to take things further. regarding the declaration itself, i fully share the opinion of the court of auditors that this will not solve everything per se. it is part of the much broader issue of systemic and structural control and audit, which should bring the expected results. let us therefore discuss every aspect and not omit anything from the scope of our discussions. let us also discuss the question of methodology and our actions and weaknesses. let us hold a comprehensive, professional and adequate discussion on this issue, and then we will all be happy.
you were the spokesman for your group, and your group has been given one minute for this debate, so i interrupted you at the right place and it is not appropriate for you to organise any more speaking time now, so to speak, on motions for resolutions.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, we already reminded member states of this obligation in our letter to them and we will also do so during the council meeting when these issues are discussed again. we are trying to promote the idea and do whatever we can, but, just as in the case of parliament, there is a limit to what we can do in this matter.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs hennicot-schoepges, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a joint undertaking for the creation of the new generation european air traffic management system (sesar) (com (2005) 0602 - c6-0002/2006 - 2005/0235 (cns)) (a6-0382/2006).
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the mortgage market remains nationally oriented. what's the reason? is it language barriers, different funding cultures, familiarity with and trust in local institutions, or is it the legal framework? the commission will examine whether and to what extent it is possible to achieve greater crossborder credit activity through harmonisation of the legal framework. the investigation is welcome. it is also very welcome that the green paper still considers that extensive studies are needed before proposals for regulations are made and that the green paper itself highlights the difficulty of the matter. the legal differences in the member states are not confined to one area, mortgage law, as it were, but they affect - as commissioner mccreevy and mr medina have just said - many areas of law: land registry, notarial law, compulsory auction law, general contract law, consumer protection. these areas of law all intersect. for some, the european union has no regulatory competence and centralised harmonisation in one area could cause considerable disadvantages at national level and do more harm than good. however, further support for the refinancing markets is entirely welcome. i would therefore say that we should give our full support to the study and analysis and to the efforts to achieve integration, but first and foremost through convergence. i do not want to rule out european regulations, but we are rather sceptical of european legislation because it can destroy functioning markets. in any case, extensive studies are still needed. it is perhaps also necessary to face the fact that we are here on the verge of unification in europe through european legislation. i think that the european parliament's role as a legislator is not without problems, since at a time when the commission is telling itself that it needs to carry out extensive investigations, it should be somewhat restrained and not rush to legislative initiatives, which it has not done. i agree with the report in its main points.
in writing. the european council has proposed to the member states the possibility of voluntarily modulating 20% of direct agricultural payments from the first to the second pillar, which was subsequently incorporated in the commission proposal and will undoubtedly lead to a reduction in agricultural aid. the council, parliament and the commission had agreed, in the context of the financial perspective, to review eu expenditure, including for the cap, only from 2013 onwards. our farmers need planning certainty to remain competitive. we must therefore now ensure that there is no change in the funds allocated to the agricultural budget until 2013 and that these funds are also spent on agricultural activity. it is not possible for farm families in one member state to receive better financial support through compensation payments than in another member state. the aim of the european agricultural policy is to give farmers in europe comparable economic conditions in a common market. the commission proposal is not preceded by an impact assessment to identify possible inequalities of treatment and therefore cannot be supported by the european parliament. i voted no to give weight to the farmers' demands.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. if you read the commission's 2007 programme carefully - i did it - you are actually very satisfied and say: 'this is a good programme! when all of this becomes a reality, we can be content, proud, and joyful. yet, when you read it, you feel as if you know the man. i feel like i've read that somewhere before. where did i read that? i then looked through my archives and found the legislative and work programme for 2006. i knew you'd read it before. i have come to the conclusion that this does not contradict the 2007 programme. on the contrary, it is a continuation of the ideas which the commission is presenting here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. clearly, climate change is the challenge at hand! of course, energy policy is the focal point for next year! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of children's toys is not compromised. as a father, i can only say: very important! i think it's great that we're going to abolish roaming charges. as a long-distance phone user, i'm all for it! reducing bureaucracy is absolutely essential if we want to make the eu more efficient. this is all important! i could say to every single commissioner, every single commissioner: your dossier is the most important! but i still ask myself, why is it that with all the good, the right, and the important, we are not reaching people's hearts? why is it that people are still not enthusiastic about the work of european unification? i think i have an explanation for this. for years, the market radicals, especially in the commission, have been telling us that we need only deregulate. we just have to get rid of the rules! the market will fix it! the single market creates the economic dynamism we need to create jobs that guarantee a decent income so that people can live in safety. but the reality is different! yeah, you can clap! you market radicals have made sure that the deregulation we have had in europe in this single market has reached the highest unemployment rates that europe has ever had. that was the reality of this single market! (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. yes, that was an important statement you made! without solidarity, without social responsibility, this single market cannot be achieved! if that is the commission's line, if that is the spirit of its work programme, then we are behind you on this issue. i think that mr pöttering's spontaneous clapping shows that he is a christian socialist. that statement is one of the most important you have made in this house for a long time. that is why the approach you have put forward here today is a good one. (interruption by the csu, not the cdu) i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the old commission is sitting here now, because two new commissioners are coming in. i have read, mr president of the commission, that you intend to appoint the romanian candidate as commissioner for multilingualism. i'm sure i'll find out what that means in the course of the hearings, but i think it's a little thin. the multilingualism dossier does not meet mr orban's expectations or the requirements of a commissioner. i do not understand why this dossier is so thin. the approach which i suspect is behind this, namely that we must respect the diversity of europe, that we must protect and strengthen the multicultural character of the european union, we think is absolutely right. but then you make a corresponding file! the minorities in the european union - we have had to discuss this again and again in the last few weeks of the plenary - are threatened. we are dealing with a growing potential for extremism, for right-wing extremism, for xenophobia, for anti-semitism. yes, minorities in the european union in particular are increasingly threatened, attacked and in need of protection! the minorities, and especially the minority languages, for example, are a sign of the diversity that makes europe so strong. i would therefore recommend that you consider extending this dossier and making the protection of minorities in general part of it, alongside multilingualism. then it would be clearer what you mean by consideration in relation to this dossier. then you could - i can imagine that - get even more support for this proposal here in parliament! overall, i would have been glad if the presidency of the council had been present to take note of the commission's strategic work programme, because many, many things that the president of the commission and his commissioners are proposing here can only be achieved if the ladies and gentlemen represented by the council, the individual governments of the eu, implement what the commission proposes and we decide. their absence from this debate shows how they are dealing with this european union. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, last week, time researchers discovered that the second half of life passes much faster than the first half. what is true of life is also true of legislative terms. that means that your committee has little time left. the more ambitious she is, the more ambitious she should be in her work. for the work programme, this means that this should be the starting point for the final track. it would have to be ambitious and have speed. but is this document such a prelude? the liberal and democratic group do not think so. no, it's not that kind of opening. but first, let me address the positive aspects we found in your program: the focus on cutting red tape, on estimating the impact of legislation, on simplification, on better and less legislation is a very good initiative, and we wholeheartedly support it. to those who fear that the eu is a neoliberal, totally deregulated market economy, i would like to say the following, and also to welcome the grand coalition, when mr poettering spontaneously applauds the point made by mr schulz: those who believe that the eu is a neoliberal market economy probably also believe that cuba is a democracy. secondly, communication with the public, another of your priorities, is also something we consider to be right. we welcome this, because if the eu loses its foundation and fails to build a people's europe, it will not be able to succeed. the eu needs its citizens as its constant communication partners. the citizens are the foundation of a common european union. the structure of the document and mr schulz should read it more carefully: there are substantial differences from last year, because the text and the annex are clearly linked. they didn't have that last year. we had criticized that. we asked you to make a clear connection, and you did. thank you very much. the legal basis for each legislative initiative is also given. that too is a major difference. and you explain the initiatives. it makes it a lot easier to handle. but why are the existing acts, which are still in force in 2007, not included? and why is it that the structure does not make it even clearer where legislation is concerned and where it is not? so why are you basically changing this picture? i would like to say a word about the multilingualism dossier: i have heard it suggested here in parliament that this was a very subtle way of showing, mr barroso, that there are perhaps too many commissioners, and this dossier was intended to illustrate this, so to speak. my group colleagues will be discussing the various policy areas, such as energy, climate change and also legal policy. i should like to explain to you the overall impression your programme has made on our group. we see ourselves clearly in the role of critical constructive accompanying your work, which of course means working with you, but with a focus on critical constructive. for us, this program is a puzzle of many pieces. you can't really put a big picture together. we see no clear political guidelines and no answers, not even attempts to answer the big questions of the eu, namely enlargement and the constitutional treaty. we also find it incomprehensible that the entire document contains no mention of humanitarian aid or development aid. the eu is the world's most important actor in this field. why is this area not mentioned? the commission's proposals for the creation of a single market are not, however, the result of a single market, but rather of a single market. the theme of innovation central to europe, at the heart of the lisbon strategy is also mentioned, almost only cursorily, in the context of the eit and the seventh framework programme. we believe that innovation needs freedom and a good framework, not institutions and other forms of support. this is going the wrong way! the programme for this year does not have a title. why would you do that? it gives the impression that not only are the pieces of the puzzle difficult to put together, but that some may even be missing.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not there is no doubt that the commission staff have done a very thorough and meticulous job in drafting the 2007 work programme. however, i would like to note here that, in my view, neither the priorities nor the lines of work indicated are really up to date. the eu is responsible for a number of issues, but these are issues that go far beyond the eu. i am thinking of such themes as poverty, social exclusion, growing social inequalities and divisions, the commercialisation of social life, the destruction of nature and culture, issues such as de-democratization, repression, war, militarisation and, more generally, how to deal with global problems, commitment to the achievement of the millennium development goals - a subject which should be of particular concern to us, given that the un has just reiterated that the number of hungry people is continuing to increase. these problems and conflicts are not the focus of the commission's work programme, nor are they the focus of its work. i think that when this programme of work is implemented, they will become even more intense, despite the positive things that are certainly supportive. the commission's work is still focused on implementing the lisbon strategy and thus on the objective of competitiveness. i believe that this is leading to an aggravation of global social and environmental problems. the question of the social models we have been debating for so long in this parliament is of no consequence. the commission's work ultimately reduces this aspect to the question of flexibility. i think that this narrowing will not lead to what you have just announced, mr barroso, actually becoming a reality, namely the social orientation of the european union. i would like to mention a second point: you state in the programme that the single market is to be seen as a more important regulator of economic life, and you give priority to the creation and development of a single european market for defence products. can you name one single deficit within the european union which could be overcome by this back door creation of the european internal market for military equipment? and who gave the commission the authority to create such a single market? the draft constitution failed and was rejected precisely because of such a point. i think that this is irresponsible and i think that corrections are urgently needed here, so that the european union can actually develop a policy and not just throw slogans at me! these adjustments must lead to people being able to identify themselves much more closely with the european union. it is not good for us to say that people are afraid of social cuts, that we must counteract them! the people need concrete projects and initiatives, and that is why we must ask concrete questions. there are also alternatives, which in my view can be summed up in three projects: the democratic union, the socially and environmentally sustainable union and the eu peace-making force, which seeks to solve global problems in a spirit of solidarity and democracy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by saying, as did the chairman of my group, mr martin schulz, that mr barroso said: 'without solidarity the single market cannot be achieved'. he's absolutely right! this is also reflected in the text of the work programme, in which the european commission commits itself to the following - and i quote: 'to implement an active policy which puts the expectations and needs of citizens at the centre'. that's just the thing! but it's not enough to just say it over and over again. it must also be filled with life. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i am thinking first of all of consumer protection. the word consumer protection does not even appear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not left behind. does this mean that you will reconsider this, that you will look at this again and make sure that this consumer protection is really at the centre of policy? because that is what the citizens should be talking about. i also miss the steps towards harmonization in european policy, which means a common policy of the member states, which means the opening up of frontiers, especially in the services market, which should be addressed much more strongly. there is still work to be done! the last point: the primacy of politics is the most important. you always talk about impact assessment, but what kind of impact assessment should be done? the impact assessment should also take into account social life, gender policy and other areas.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. as in the past year, the commission is clearly continuing its policy of deep division in european society. were the riots in the suburbs of paris not enough warning? after that, we cannot continue in europe with a policy which is writing off a part of society. how can it be that, in the light of this experience, the commission intends to decouple social issues from the growth strategy in the new work programme? why does it abandon the previous consensus that social inclusion policy is part of the lisbon strategy and thus an expression of social cohesion? will not everyone, regardless of place of residence or social status, be able to share in the economic success and prosperity of europe? our group will not accept that. it does not accept that people, like those in the suburbs of paris, can no longer participate in europe's prosperity strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. unfortunately, this trend continues in the work programme as a whole. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. economic growth should take precedence over sustainable development. this is a completely backward policy, this is the selling off of our living resources, this is the writing off of rural areas. this is a step away from the interconnectedness of economic, social and environmental objectives. how does the commission explain that it is using earmarking catalogues to withdraw money from the structural funds for territorial cohesion and the sustainable development of all regions, and that it is only pursuing a policy for prosperous cities and successful economic centres, whereas many regions of europe, young people in the suburbs and in rural areas, are not given any comparable importance at all? this can't be! sustainable development must be put back at the centre of european policy.
i have to say, madam president, two points to be addressed in this work programme: the first concerns the issue of fundamental freedoms, the second the participation of the citizens of the european union. it has been said many times here that the lack of commission preferences and priorities in the area of fundamental freedoms and the third pillar is a problem that we must urgently address, firstly, and secondly, we should also investigate where the lack of political will is coming from. it has been mentioned that at the beginning of this parliamentary term, commission president barroso set up a working group of commissioners to deal with fundamental freedoms. i wonder what this working group has been doing for the last two years. we haven't received a report. i didn't say anything. drinking coffee? i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i criticise this work programme for the fact that while we have parallel developments, g6 countries dealing with legal migration, as well as some states around the federal republic of germany, which launched the prüm treaty , develop parallel structures to the third pillar outside the third pillar, without the commission, as guardian of the treaties and this goes beyond the making of laws , speaking out vehemently in public. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. i'm running out of time, so i'll just end with a quick note. on page 10 of the citizens' engagement programme, it says in english, and i quote, "this includes a commitment to listen and to deliver". we acted accordingly. we have handed over a million signatures to the commission and the council, which are concerned with the seat of parliament. two and a half months later, we still have no answer! i believe that as far as list and deliver is concerned, the ball is in your court.
i have to say, madam president, 2007 is a very important year in terms of whether we win the citizens for europe or whether the process of distancing ourselves from europe continues. i would like to make three comments on this. firstly, the berlin declaration gives us a good opportunity to make the european idea and the european project clear. i hope that the declaration does not talk too much about the past, but more about the future, because europe started with energy. it may also contain a vision for the future, for example by proposing a major energy project which meets all the criteria we are seeking. i'm thinking here of the solar hydrogen economy, which would really be a challenge for this continent and even on a global scale. secondly, we must advance the constitutional process. this is of course the task of the presidencies, but also of the other institutions. i hope that the commission will also make contributions which show citizens what they are losing if the constitution is not ratified, but at the same time make proposals on how we can overcome the crisis. the summit in june was marked by additional elements. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i hope that in 2007 the commission will also give some thought to what this means in practice. thirdly, madam vice-president, the democratic infrastructures: we have the european citizens' initiatives. we can't let a million signatures go to waste. i think we need a framework here for how such mass petitions are handled by the institution. these are important tasks for 2007.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as the green group's coordinator for foreign and security policy, i would like to make a few critical remarks. you have raised a number of points. véronique de keyser spoke to me from the heart: where are we really at? we see the arc of crisis over iraq, iran, libya, the middle east. we are declaring ourselves to be europe, a global actor, and then we see a static programme of work, where on the one hand the problems are called banal without being politically filled, and on the other hand there are instruments which are not even considered by the commission as a quantum leap, given that they are new. i would like to say at this point that we are disappointed that the five new foreign policy instruments which will be operational from 1 january, which for the first time will strengthen the commission in its foreign policy, civil conflict prevention, crisis management and reconstruction, are not receiving the attention they deserve, but are merely a reflection in the work programme! and your notion of neighborhood policy. the commission must make it politically clear what it means today when some begin to talk about a light neighbourhood policy. it's not defined politically anymore. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let me say one last positive thing: i think it's good that you're finally getting into the arms market; it's just that what you have in the program has been in there for years. we in parliament have given you the green light and we are finally expecting results. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all my warm thanks, on behalf of the whole commission, for all your important and constructive contributions to the debate on next year’s work programme, which i have been listening to since 3 o’clock. my first comment will be a political one and then i would like to say something about the process. but what i have heard is really a common call for sustainable development, meaning that a majority of you have mentioned the need to create jobs and growth. this is the start of the debate, but we have to respect the most important resource we have, people, and make sure that we have a social security and social protection system that reaches out effectively to all citizens. it has to be sustainable growth, which means we have to take account of natural resources, energy issues and environmental constraints. that is exactly what sustainable development is all about, making sure that we do it the european way, ensuring that all these three elements are covered by an ambitious policy for jobs and growth in europe. i have heard these calls for quality jobs and investment in education and innovation, research and development. as you know, this has been part of our political agenda from the first day of the barroso commission. we propose to respond to this, because it is totally in line with this commission’s political ambitions, and we propose reforms in this work programme. we propose social cohesion and i think it is important to mention in that context, since there was also a debate about regional policy, that we now have in place all we need – budgets, regulations, etc. – for a regional policy for 2007 to 2013, and that we are negotiating right now with member states on the programmes. we hope for close cooperation with parliament on implementation. the urban dimension is taken very seriously by the commission. the earmarking takes account of the needs of both more and less advanced regions in europe, because there have been references to unfair cohesion policy and we say that all three dimensions of cohesion must be taken seriously. this is also reflected in the new regulations, where partnership is in principle obligatory and 82% of the structural funds goes to poorer regions. investment in people is one of the three objectives of the cohesion policy and i think that point should come out in the debate. we are also proposing security measures. security includes making sure we can live free from terrorist threats and crime and from environmental pollution. we say we need to approach this with a lot of optimism and in partnership with all the stakeholders involved, but engaging with member states. this has to do with the issue of soft law. many of you have mentioned soft law, compared with other measures and legislative acts. it is important to mention that this commission work programme for 2007 contains 34 legislative proposals, representing 36% of the total, 57 non-legislative proposals and one negotiating mandate. that is more than last year’s 24 legislative proposals, 57 non-legislative proposals and five negotiating mandates. this figure shows that the proportion of legislative initiatives has increased from 27 to 36%. at the same time, the proportion of non-legislative proposals has slightly decreased. with a more diverse europe, we also have to invest more in working with member states to ensure that we prepare for good and better regulation and legislation that will be implemented. therefore we need better consultation and better-prepared proposals in order to see better results, and that also applies to working methods. mr harbour asked about resources. in some cases, perhaps the commission should ask the european parliament to give us the resources we need. as you know, at the moment we are discussing how we can have enough resources to do everything parliament has put on its wish-list. i have heard so many proposals for things that ought to be added to the list and things that you have missed – initiatives or legislative proposals – that should be on this list: energy initiatives, migration initiatives, the single market review, the social reality stocktaking, the emissions trading scheme, a european strategy for social services, a community framework for efficient health services, etc. these 21 strategic objectives cover exactly the three pillars of sustainable development. if we are to add more of these initiatives or more work, we also need the resources and we cannot pretend otherwise. we are concerned about the budget for the commission. we have to explain to our auditors, the european parliament and the other institutions, how we use our money. however, we can discuss the structure until the cows come home, but in the end we have to choose and we have chosen to make this a more political document and explain the priorities of the barroso commission. the different structure you propose makes a lot of sense, but i think this is the way to ensure we can have a real political debate about priorities. that has been our wish from the beginning, in engaging with the european parliament to discuss the work programme. this reflects the kind of dialogue we have had with the european parliament for a long time, with contributions from all the individual committees. i think i am speaking on behalf of all my colleagues when i say that we have welcomed this and have enjoyed that debate and interaction with the european parliament. i would also like to say that when several of you ask for things that you feel are missing, that is in a way the tip of the iceberg. so much is being done all the time in the commission and our departments. here you find the strategic objectives, the strategic initiatives, that we say we will give priority to. at the same time there are a number of things in the pipeline. you are right on that point, mr harbour: you have to decide to give priority to a number of them. you will also find a list of communication priorities. that is in response to some of the very important remarks on human rights and anti-discrimination. as you know, next year will be the year of equal opportunities. that is one of our communication priorities, on which we will definitely engage with the other institutions. whether or not there should be a directive will be debated constantly with the european parliament, but we can only present directives when we are ready and the circumstances are right. that will be debated later with the different committees. anti-discrimination and human rights are part of everything we do and clearly a political priority in all our activities. we welcome your contributions. i find in your comments support for the high ambitions that the commission has for 2007 and i also welcome your firm support to work together to achieve them. we are also committed to listening to citizens and to delivery, to becoming more accountable, transparent and effective. we thank you for your support in pursuing and strengthening our efforts towards better communication. now the commission will study the content of the resolution you will be adopting in december. the commission will respond in the most appropriate and timely manner. the presentation of the annual policy strategy for 2008 could be the moment when the commission explains how it intends to take account of the resolution on the work programme. i should like to reiterate that the commission attaches the greatest importance to our framework agreement. it has proved a solid basis for productive working relations between our two institutions. it should remain our common objective to make the best use of it. mr duff, we meet regularly in discussions about the constitutional treaty and, as you already heard from president barroso, we have great hopes also for next year. we shall now start preparing to move the institutional issues and hopefully the constitutional treaty forward next year. we will have to work with member states and engage in a dialogue with them as to how we can do this in a balanced and effective manner. but it is clear that the problems addressed by the constitution have not gone away. they are there and accentuated by next year’s enlargement. that is why we have to come back to the issue. we have to engage in a debate. however, it has not been a detour to say that we also have to have a period of reflection and that we have to engage with citizens. that has given us a lot in return. it has been necessary, because we can see a change of debate and atmosphere in many member states. it is important to know that we can mobilise that support in trying to find a solution to the constitutional issue.
the next item is question time (b6-0445/2006). we are dealing with the questions to the commission. part one
question no 30 by mr manolis mavrommatis (h-0881/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: european universitiesa 2006 study by the times supplement 'the higher education supplement' found that in the university rankings on the five continents, 40 european universities, mainly in the uk, rank among the top 100 universities in the world. most of the other 60 universities are in the united states, australia and china. the study also notes that harvard university, which took the top spot in 2006, has an annual budget of $26 billion. does the commission have any further plans to promote the competitiveness of european universities and what measures does it envisage? does the commission also plan to extend its co-financing measures to higher education institutions and will it produce an official ranking of european universities?
member of the commission. i think that mr mavrommatis is right in pointing the finger at the teaching, because when teaching is separated from other activities, namely research or even the transfer of knowledge, via innovation, into real practice and the real economy, then all those aspects become rather weak or average, and we fall in the rankings, moving into a second division. the best answer is therefore to invest more and better. the question is slanted towards more investment in teaching and research, whereas better means efficiency and the way we organise ourselves, how we transfer knowledge and how we build partnerships between public and private interests and between academia and society. all these can be improved in our various policies, and in the eit, which i mentioned as one of the examples of how these issues could be integrated. secondly, there is also a need for more investment. i would not call this a subsidy from the european union, but rather support for european cooperation, because we put together monies and distribute them in line with agreed rules, and these rules should lead us to excellence, the transfer of knowledge, and the rewarding or promotion of quality, not just quantity, in our academic institutions. that is our shared responsibility and common task.
member of the commission. the rankings which have emerged and, whether we like it or not, will be part of our debate, are based on a certain set of criteria chosen by institutions that organise these rankings. a famous one is that of shanghai university and another is the times higher education supplement. i said that there are limited criteria for evaluation. we are not going to organise our ranking around erasmus, but erasmus is a trademark or highly important, popular way of improving mobility in europe. there is competition in terms not only of eligibility, as is now the case in most universities, but also of numbers and the content of the erasmus programmes. three years ago we established erasmus mundus. erasmus is not only about thousands of people studying around the world. the european credit transfer system came about as a result of this cooperation in the 1990s. then the bologna process began in 1999, as a logical process for providing more and more students and citizens in europe with qualifications gained or complemented by studies abroad. in my view, we are not going to organise rankings but we want to celebrate and promote erasmus as an important tool for the internationalisation of our studies and for making europe and european universities more attractive worldwide. we organise a lot of joint actions in third countries far from europe. when i speak to partners from outside europe, i find that erasmus is well known, especially now that erasmus mundus is seen as a competitive instrument used by european universities to make an internal and external difference to the image of europe. so i would prefer not to speak about rankings but about our delivery in building a more attractive european education area.
question no 31 by chris davies (h-0896/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: carbon dioxide emissions from new cars how high does the commission currently estimate the average carbon dioxide emissions from new cars entering the european car market?
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission attaches great importance to the automotive industry's commitment to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars. these commitments have enabled significant reductions in consumption for new passenger cars and in 2004 average co2 emissions from new passenger cars were 12.4% lower than in 1995, from 186 grams per km to 163 grams. the industry must, in its own interest, comply with the commitments it has made. if it were to miss the target of 140 grams per km, the credibility of voluntary commitments as an alternative to legally binding regulations would be jeopardised. so far, all three trade associations have achieved their intermediate targets set out in their self-commitments. the final goal is still very challenging, but all have reaffirmed their determination to reach the final goal. i do not want to hide the fact that i am very concerned about this. since the publication of the report on the state of play at the end of 2004, i have been concerned that the average annual reduction in the coming years will have to be much higher than the current level if the final target is to be achieved. we do not yet have definitive data for 2005, but i do not expect a reduction in 2005 greater than in 2004. if it appears that industry will not meet its commitments, the commission must - as i have already announced - take action and also propose legislation to reduce co2 emissions to the level deemed necessary. the commission is currently reviewing the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars. the cars 21 high level group recommends an integrated approach for the future strategy, involving all stakeholders and thus a wide range of actions. i believe this approach is a key prerequisite for achieving further reductions in co2 emissions from passenger cars at a sustainable cost. a commission decision on the future strategy is expected by the end of the year. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field. we are also considering, for example, setting binding targets for the fuel efficiency of motor vehicles. however, other aspects need to be considered, such as policies to promote the use of low-carbon fuels and changes in driving habits. we should also pay more attention to the other two main elements of the strategy: the labelling and tax incentives for low-carbon vehicles. i am sorry to say that the impact of these two parts of the strategy has been extremely small so far, but i believe there is room for improvement.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, let me say something about your assessment of the european car market. it is indeed one of the reasons why the targets have not been met - but it is only one of the reasons - that market habits have changed in europe and a segment of the market is growing particularly fast which is not very helpful in terms of co2, namely the segment of the so-called suv, that is the large, very fuel-consuming apparent off-road vehicles. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the commission's proposal for the euro 5 standard provides for the abolition of the benefit to these particularly large and polluting vehicles. this is a very important point. this question is being discussed in the european parliament these days. as regards timing, it is a matter of fairness and also of reliability that we give the industry the time it has been given, that is, until 2008. however, if we see - and this is becoming clear - that the objectives are not being met, then the commission will have to start preparing legislative steps next year so that they can be presented in 2008.
vice-president of the commission. of course, mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the proposal for the introduction of a euro 5 standard for vehicles, which was presented by the commission at the end of last year, reduces particulate matter emissions for both light commercial vehicles and cars. the limit value for soot particles for diesel cars will be reduced to 5 milligrams per kilometre from 2009 onwards, according to the proposal we have made. this value cannot be set lower, as measurement is no longer possible. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the situation is more difficult with nitrogen oxides, because the technology is not yet available for the vast majority of vehicles. the commission's proposal for a reduction to 200 milligrams per kilometre is currently being discussed in parliament. in a second step, which is also being discussed, i have proposed to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions from diesel vehicles from 200 to 80 milligrams, and this would come into effect in 2014 or 2015.
vice-president of the commission. i am very grateful to you for this question, because it gives me the opportunity to clear up a relatively widespread misunderstanding. of course we have these figures, and it is a - in my view - a very gratifying fact that the emissions from new cars from europe are far, but really far below the average emissions from cars from other parts of the world, significantly among the oil producing countries, including the united states and japan. it is interesting to note here that these countries, which have lower emissions than we do, have legally binding regulations in place for all sectors.
as they concern the same subject, the following questions will be dealt with together: question no 41 by mr bernd posselt (h-0898/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: taxes on beer what is the commission's position on plans to increase taxes on beer? question no 42 by mr justas vincas paleckis (h-0925/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: method of calculating the increase in excise duty on alcohol the european commission's proposal to increase excise duty on alcohol is currently being discussed in the european union institutions. taking into account inflation in the period from 1993, when the current minimum excise duty rates on alcohol came into force, it is proposed to increase the minimum excise duty rates by 31% by 2005. however, on 1 may 2004, new member states joined the eu, and from that date they committed themselves to applying minimum excise duty rates to alcoholic beverages. the commission proposal will force them to increase their excise duty rates in line with the inflation rate of other countries at a time when they were not yet members of the eu. does the commission consider that this is fair and logical? is it not possible that a different method of calculating excise duty on alcohol should be applied to the new eu countries?
member of the commission. i would like to inform honourable members that on 8 september 2006 the commission adopted a proposal to adapt the minimum rates of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages to take account of inflation since 1993, when the current rates were established. this proposal was inspired by a call made unanimously by the council on 12 april 2005. the proposal provides for the proposed increases to come into force from 1 january 2008. however, in order to ease the difficulties that some member states may have in increasing their national rates to meet the revalorised minimum, transitional periods have been proposed until 1 january 2011. the inflationary increase is 31%, based on eurostat data and the harmonised index of consumer prices. for beer this means that the current minimum rate of 74.8 euro cents per hectolitre per degree will rise to 98 euro cents. in other words, the current minimum duty based on half a litre of beer of an alcoholic strength of 5% will rise from 4.5 euro cents to 6 euro cents, an increase of some 1.5 euro cents. the majority of member states are not affected by this proposal, as their national rates are already above the proposed revalorised minimum. however, the impact on those member states that are affected will clearly depend on the level of their current national rates. germany, for instance, will need to increase its national rate on beer by 24.5% in order to meet the revalorised minimum. this equates to a duty increase on half a litre of beer of just over 1 euro cent. furthermore, under the transition period proposed, germany will have until 1 january 2011 to make the necessary increase. honourable members will see that the impact of the proposed adaptation to inflation will be rather modest and does not justify the outcry in some member states. in response to the specific question asked by mr paleckis, the commission points out that the purpose of the minimum rates is to limit distortions of the internal market through different tax levels being set by member states. therefore, the minimum rate should be the same across the european union. in the commission’s view it makes no sense to have different minimum rates depending on the point in time one or the other member state joined the european union. as mentioned above, the commission’s proposal contains appropriate transition periods. finally, i would like to add that the proposal is currently the subject of discussions in the council. these are proving to be more difficult than one would have expected considering that the proposal sets out a purely mathematical adaptation, which has only a marginal effect in some member states. i want to inform honourable members that on 7 november, just a week ago, when we discussed it for the first time in the ecofin council, three member states – germany, the czech republic and lithuania – opposed the proposal. it did not, therefore, gain the unanimous support requested, so we postponed the final decision and debate to the next ecofin meeting which is due on 28 november. as honourable members are certainly aware, it will also be the subject of discussions in parliament.
i'm not going to tell you. do you know that bavaria joined the german empire in 1871 only on the condition that beer be recognized as a basic food, which can be consumed even during military service? so in bavaria, beer is a staple food. and should we not make a clearer distinction between beer and what are called alcoholic beverages, that is, between a healthy natural product and a giant pig? secondly, i would ask you whether we should not take greater account of regional and national traditions. and above all, should we not rather reduce the vat and the beer tax on catering in order to keep our quality catering alive, which is the prerequisite for health? the healthier the food, the healthier the people.
member of the commission. it was already part of my answer that, according to the commission, there would be no sense in having two different rates of excise duty for the new and old member states. as regards the question of the point of departure, and whether or not this should be the excise duty rates established in 1992 and entering into force in 1993, these can be a point of departure and that is the basis of the current proposal. should the ecofin council agree, we could find some other starting date, but that is not yet something officially tabled for the next ecofin meeting, which will take place on 28 november. the commission is, of course, trying its best to find a solution that is universal and the same for all member states, be they new or old, and i do hope that on 28 november we will finally arrive at a solution acceptable to all member states.
member of the commission. the commission has certainly not proposed to increase the tax on alcohol, because what we are doing is just revalorising. the current excise duty rates were established in 1992 and came into effect on 1 january 1993. between then and now they have lost 31% of their value. the proposal simply revalorised the excise duty, but it has not been increased by a single euro cent.
member of the commission. as an honourable representative of the uk you will surely know there are a number of member states very much opposed to harmonisation in general and in principle. what the european union has already achieved is harmonisation of minimum excise duty rates, and member states are free to set their national rate much higher than the minimum. today we have a minimum excise duty rate on beer and zero rates on wine, which i do agree results in some distortion, but as i mentioned, changing this legislation requires a unanimous decision in the ecofin council of which there is no hope for the time being. also, some member states just apply the minimum rates and some apply much higher rates. for instance, as far as spirits are concerned, i know there are some scandinavian member states where the actual excise duty rate is more than ten times the mandatory minimum. this can certainly result in some distortion. however, it is within the jurisdiction of each and every member state to set the rate above the minimum or at the minimum, but certainly not below the minimum.
question no 43 by mr papastamkos (h-0891/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: decentralised system for the application of competition lawon the basis of regulation (ec) no 1/2003 oj l 1, 4.1.2003, p. 1. the centralised system applied until then was replaced by a system of legal exceptions under which the competition authorities and courts of the member states have the power not only to apply articles 81 (1) and 82 of the treaty, which are directly applicable according to the case-law of the court of justice of the european communities, but also to apply article 81 (3) of the treaty. are there any initial assessments of the effectiveness of the new decentralised system? in addition to the work of the independent national competition authorities, is the best practice of creating national judicial bodies familiar with the technical and complex issues of competition policy and dealing exclusively with competition protection issues being followed?
member of the commission. to answer the question straightforwardly, member states can divide enforcement work between the different authorities, and the national regulatory authority becomes the national competition authority, as you certainly know. as far as the national factor is concerned, this forms part of the european competition network and, as i have already mentioned, the working relationships within that network are absolutely collegial. we know what the rules are, and indeed they are what your colleague has just mentioned. generally speaking, the big cases, or at least cases related to our merger rules and regulations, are dealt with by us, but if it is a national case which the national competition authority is willing and able to deal with, then it is theirs to deal with. however, this is not a law set in stone. if the national competition authority prefers to hand a case over to us then we are willing, and certainly able, to deal with it.
question no 44 by ruth hieronymi (h-0899/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: promotion of film production through tax incentives in the united kingdomthe uk is currently negotiating the uk finance act, which provides that only qualified expenditure made in the uk can benefit from tax incentives in the uk. one consequence is that us film productions produced in the uk benefit to a large extent from these tax benefits, while uk co-productions produced outside the eu would not receive this tax benefit. is this proposed tax incentive system compatible with eu competition law? if so, would such disadvantage to european productions be justified in the light of the mandate to promote cultural diversity in the eu under article 151 of the eu treaty? if not, what measures does the eu treaty, and in particular eu competition law, provide for the eu commission to take in such a case?
member of the commission. the commission is currently in discussions with the uk authorities concerning the uk film tax incentive scheme, which has been notified to the commission under the state aid rules. the commission is assessing that case on the basis of the 2001 cinema communication, which provides that member states can grant state aid to film production if the content of the film concerned is cultural, according to verifiable national criteria. in line with the subsidiarity principle, the cinema communication leaves member states to determine those verifiable national criteria. neither article 151 of the treaty nor the cinema communication exclude the possibility that third-country productions or co-productions can benefit from state aid provided by member states to support films. however, the cinema communication allows member states to require that up to 80% of the film production budget be spent in the territory concerned in return for state aid. the uk scheme contains such a requirement. also it was not quite clear, on the basis of the initial notifications of the uk film tax incentive, that european co-productions which meet the conditions of the european convention on cinematic co-production do not need to pass the uk cultural test to benefit under the scheme. at the commission’s request the uk authorities have clarified that in their published guidance on the scheme. therefore, the conditions for european co-productions to benefit from the scheme are in line with commonly used european standards. in contrast, us productions and us-uk co-productions must pass the uk cultural test to benefit from the tax scheme. the uk cultural test contains the verifiable national criteria, which are intended to ensure that the aid is being directed towards a cultural product. that is one of the aspects of the scheme that the commission is examining.
- i'm not sure. i would like to ask you to what extent these cultural criteria for british-american co-productions are already included in the british government's drafts submitted so far, or to what extent do they need to be included in addition? secondly, what is the situation with british co-productions in other member states of the european union?
member of the commission. the honourable member is touching on the culmination of us-uk activities in this field. the cost of a us actor being filmed in the uk would be eligible under the uk film tax incentive, but the cost of an actor from another member state would also be eligible if the filming takes place in the uk. the honourable member raises the situation in which films have co-producers from the uk and other member states. it is true that the cost of a uk or european actor shooting in another member state would not be eligible for a claim under the uk scheme. however, the co-producer from the other member state could include within their production budget the cost of the uk or european actor in their member state, and these costs might benefit from some support from that member state.
question no 32 by mr claude moraes (h-0871/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: prevention and treatment of hiv/aids in south africa what exactly is the european union doing to prevent and treat hiv/aids in south africa? how is the commission supporting the use of antiretroviral medicines in south africa? how has the availability of off-patent medicines for hiv/aids patients in south africa improved?
member of the commission. i've only just touched upon the answer to that question. i personally count on that a lot, because there is still a logic. one of the first millennium development goals is the primary education of all children of primary school age. i believe that we must make a colossal effort in this area because the achievement of this objective requires education, information campaigns and greater systematicity. secondly, i think we need to decentralise this strategy much more. take the case of africa, for example: it's obvious, for those who know africa, that one of the tragedies of africa today -- we don't talk about it much, but i pay close attention to it -- is that all politics is centralized. there is very little decentralisation and when there is decentralisation, we decentralise powers, but without giving the means to carry out the actions envisaged or to exercise those powers. so much more would have to be done to involve the grassroots communities. we need to focus on education. you're talking about preventative measures. i can't think of a more important preventive measure than that. i would like to say in this connection - although it may be very difficult - that we must stop changing strategies all the time because of the lack of immediate results. it takes time to act; you can't measure the effectiveness of a policy after just a few years. it is a dramatic, terrible scourge and so almost everything has to be done from scratch. i am witnessing several strategies: a country like botswana is doing a lot of work and making a lot of efforts. there are other countries that are making considerable efforts. i have just discussed this matter with mrs zuma, the foreign minister of south africa, a country which is reviewing its policy in this area. south africa wants to adapt, and i think that's a good thing. i could talk about other countries, but the most important preventive measure, i think, is education. i don't really see any other way to develop our strategy.
question no 33 by mr medina ortega (h-0873/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: immigration: support for returned migrantsin view of the fact that in recent months thousands of illegal migrants from west africa have been returned to their countries of origin, where economic conditions continue to exist which forced them to emigrate, does the commission intend to take measures within the framework of its development policy to facilitate the resettlement of returned migrants in their countries of origin?
member of the commission. i already answered that question. let us imagine, for example, that we could spend ten times as much on our development policies. but the fact remains that if you do development projects in developing countries where there is no state capacity, no state capacity even of the king, that is to say where the state is not able to give equal access to education for all children, access to administration, access to justice, access to health, your development policy will not be really effective. it will not be until you have states that are able to provide their citizens with basic services and to organize society socially. that is why the whole philosophy i am trying to develop in the 10th european development fund is that it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the capacity of the states to provide. this is the whole governance discussion. you know that i recently presented a communication on governance, which was quite well received by our member states and which was also well received at the world bank meeting in singapore, where we spoke about the european difference. tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and friday, major development days on the issue of governance will be held in brussels, with many round tables. the president of the world bank will be there. the 17 african heads of state and government, many ministers, experts, mark malloch brown of undp, etc. will also be present. all will be brought together to conduct a real reflection on governancehow to strengthen the capacity of states to ensure that the eu is a stronger partner in the world of business? the experience i have gained in this field leads me to the conclusion that successful development cannot be achieved without the parallel consolidation of the states concerned. what is true for europe, what has been true for europe, what has been true for our countries, is also true for these countries. i think, in fact, that if all that is poured into our development policies is poured into states that are failing, the consequences will be only negative: a lot of waste, a lot of loss, a lot of loss of efficiency. finally, one final point. as far as development is concerned, 75 per cent of the money we spend on development is not budgetary support to the states. only 25 percent of our development spending is going to help states, so consolidate them or give them a chance to do so. the remaining 75% is provided by indirect actors. these indirect actors are useful, important. they have to be partners. but it seems to me that it is difficult to hope to give this capacity to developing countries if we give them only a quarter of the development budgets. i admit that this calls for a thorough and contradictory debate, but everyone knows that i am in favour of a substantial increase in the proportion of budgetary aid.
member of the commission. i already answered that question. it's very complex. if the idea is that we are going to give everyone who wants to leave home a sum of money to stay, that is the equivalent of setting up a widespread system of intervention in developing countries directed at individuals. it has nothing to do with development. it's extremely dangerous. on the other hand, i agree with your idea - since it is also my own - that we must obviously invest massively in development projects which, for example, create jobs or activity; i'm thinking of some labor-intensive work that we're funding, by the way. if you take rwanda, we fund road construction, directly by unemployed people, by people who are put to work, who earn, of course, only one and a half dollars a day, but who have a situation, who work, who thus provide for their families. i agree with you completely that we must invest as much as possible in development, but on the conditions i have just mentioned. i think that simply pouring resources without having a state that can regulate, that can orchestrate all this, will not lead to much.
member of the commission. madam president, i will be extremely brief. i can only agree with what you say. every time the commission makes proposals to unify, to bring together the different laws and approaches of our states, it has to be said that it is confronted with clear divisions between our states. so i think things are moving forward, that progress is being made, but i also see the difficulties in convincing the states to take concrete action. let us take the example of the efforts made by my colleague mr frattini to encourage the member states to have a much more coherent and much more common policy. so you're right about a thousand times. the commission is doing all it can, but unfortunately it cannot force the states to do so.
questions which have not been dealt with for reasons of time will be answered in writing (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.50 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commissioner has handled this matter. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i personally believe that we have two different elements in the field of gambling and lotteries: on the one hand, the absolutely transnational market for online providers, which we can only regulate at european level. mr medina-ortega pointed out that the americans had already found a solution for their market. we in europe can also only find a solution for the online market if we regulate it at european level together with the member states. on the other hand, there is the market for traditional gambling and traditional sports betting, which tends to be in written form. unlike the infringement procedure which the commission - that is, you, commissioner mccreevy - has initiated, we should rather proceed on the principle that if member states are really effective in preventing addiction by setting up their national monopolies in such a way that the offer is as low as possible and as consumer-friendly as possible, they will be able to maintain these monopolies under the control and supervision of european law and the european commission in the future. but it must be ensured that the monopoly which the member states have already established is really aimed at one objective, namely the prevention of addiction, and that the member states do not pursue other objectives with the monopoly, such as the rehabilitation of public budgets, the promotion of sport or other things. in this context, i would be very pleased if we could find a common regulation between parliament and the commission which would establish a european regulation for the online market and maintain national rules on monopolies in traditional sports betting, provided they are in line with the internal market.
member of the commission. mr president, i am happy to share with you further reflections on the gsp+ scheme and the philosophy behind it. it is an important eu development tool: it contributes to economic progress in developing countries and the reduction of poverty, while taking on board the enduring need for promoting core human and labour rights, as well as sustainable development and governance principles. one of the key priorities of eu trade policy is to be consistent with and to consolidate the objectives of development policy, in particular the promotion of sustainable development and good governance. this goal has been given greater prominence in the gsp+ scheme, which aims at encouraging developing countries to comply with international standards relating to social rights, environmental protection and governance, including the fight against drugs. it is worth recalling that the criteria on which the granting of gsp+ is based are objective and transparent and have been made public in the regulation itself – this is in line with our wto obligations. the success of the gsp+ scheme is that it provides an incentive for the applicant countries to ratify key ilo conventions in order to comply with the criteria of the gsp+. it has played an instrumental role in the case of el salvador, which deposited the ratification instruments of the missing ilo conventions on 6 september 2006. the ilo supervisory committees reported that most of the gsp+ applicant countries have made substantial changes to their legal systems in order to comply fully with the rights enshrined in the ilo conventions, which was the precondition for being granted gsp+ trade preferences in the first place. the gsp+ system is an instrument of encouragement and support. it cannot solve everything at once; its role is to give an incentive, as i say, not to punish, and to maintain the momentum of reform. the aim is also to integrate the gsp+ beneficiaries into the world trading system. i am convinced that integration into the world trading system will further help these countries to advance towards greater respect for the principles enshrined in the conventions and to lock in essential reforms. following the ratification of these conventions, it is clear that actual implementation then needs to be monitored. progress in the implementation of the gsp+ conditionality is assessed in relation to developments in government policy, to administrative capacity and other institutional, legal and budgetary constraints. some of these can only improve over time. regarding monitoring, the eu relies in its judgments, in particular with regard to the initiation of any withdrawal procedure, on the monitoring procedures and expertise of relevant specialised monitoring bodies, such as the ilo, for which the eu itself cannot be a substitute. however, we also have our own role to play in the proper application of the gsp system. therefore, whenever the commission receives information from trade unions or other stakeholders about serious and systemic systematic violations of relevant international standards, it thoroughly examines whether appropriate action in line with the gsp regulation may be taken. this is well coordinated, with relevant monitoring bodies, and parliament should be regularly updated on developments. i would like to stress the important role the european parliament and parliaments in the relevant countries can play, both in monitoring the situation and in helping to bring forward implementing legislation in the countries concerned and ensuring its effective implementation. let me say to members of this house: your interparliamentary contacts are very valuable for sending this important message and i am ready to engage in an even closer cooperation with you with a view to this end.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the system of generalised preferences has proven its worth by providing effective support to states in their efforts to achieve sustainable development and good governance. we trade with these countries and negotiate on equal terms. we are opening up our markets to them, which means that we are creating a competitive situation, and possibly only in the medium term. in other words: it is also in our own interest to see that the rules and conventions of the united nations and the international labour organization are followed. we therefore fully support the commission in this endeavour. we also ask, however, - and the commissioner has already indicated that he is prepared - that the commission informs us regularly. firstly, by its observations on the implementation of the various schemes in the beneficiary countries, secondly, by any sanctions under article 16, and thirdly, by a mid-term evaluation of the efficiency of the gsp+ rules. gsp+ is designed to enable us to both provide support and benefit from trade with these countries. we must also take account of the legitimate interests of our economy and our labour market and strike a balance between these two objectives.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are coming today to the end of more than two years of debate in the european parliament on the services directive, and i think we can be quite satisfied and proud of our work as a parliament. but i was not the only one who did this work, many colleagues also contributed to the success of our cooperation. let me just name a few people i would like to thank on behalf of everyone for the good cooperation: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's powers are not undermined by the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter. everyone has contributed greatly to our success. but there is one person i would like to highlight, and that is my colleague from the epp-ed group, the shadow rapporteur, malcolm harbour. (applause from the centre) i would like to thank mr schulz, who asked me to do so last night, for the good cooperation, because it was not easy, it was not natural, in the very different opinions we had here in the european parliament, to produce a common text which was widely accepted and which did not mean a division between parliament and the citizens of the european union. we have to be very careful not to let the commission and the council get involved in this. it has led to a symbiosis between the interests of workers and consumers on the one hand and the economy on the other. we have succeeded in making this text a real contribution to putting people more firmly at the centre of politics. i believe that the key to the future of our work in the european parliament is to make it clear that we are making policy for the people, for the citizens of europe. the economy is important, stability is important, but the most important thing is the people for whom we make policy. with this joint text we have drawn up, we have succeeded in protecting the rights of workers - labour law, social law, consumer protection law and other important legal concerns - and in ensuring that we have a positive system, by removing the principle of country of origin. it was very important that we made sure that workers' rights were promoted and that unhealthy competition between the social systems of the member states was prevented. we have ensured that the posting directive is not affected and called into question by the services directive by deleting articles 24 and 25, and that we can work well together here. we have eliminated a problem which was enormous by removing very substantial parts of services of general interest from the scope of the services directive; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we have not only done something for the workers, we have also made sure that the economy, the service providers, are also benefiting from the services directive. we have made sure that the free movement of service providers across borders is greatly facilitated. we have achieved this facilitation by, for example, actually establishing the principle of freedom to provide services, by making it very clear that protectionist measures in the member states must be abolished and by having single points of contact to help them move around the european union. there are a few other points which we must discuss in parliament and have discussed. i think that an important answer to these questions can be given today by the european commission, namely the clarification of a few points which are very important for us, particularly in relation to labour law, social rights, criminal law and the guidelines which the european commission receives through the services directive, and which i know it will not use to make interpretations of the implementation of the services directive, but it will ensure that the services directive is an aid to the member states. the interpretation of the texts is the responsibility of the court of justice and not of the european commission. she's got that, and we can live with that very well. mr president, i am very much looking forward to this statement from the european commission! (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. the commission is not i think that the official statement of the european commission clarifies the last legal uncertainties in certain points such as labour law, social law and other . this clarification allows me to recommend to my colleagues in the european parliament that they approve the common position as presented to us by the council of ministers without amendments - except, of course, the three amendments to the comitology, on which we have a common agreement. i think that we have done a very good job as a parliament, and i thank the european commission and the council presidency once again for having adopted our text almost in full. i would like to add one more point, which is a bit bitter, and i would recommend that this and the following council presidencies do not continue as they have done so far. it is not possible that the council presidency should constantly and uninterruptedly say during a second reading that it is not possible to discuss it any further and that it is not possible to accept amendments which parliament wants because a fragile compromise has been reached in the council. we have also found a fragile compromise in parliament, and it is important that we ensure that the rights of parliament, the council of ministers and the european commission are fully reflected in the codecision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have accepted it in this one case because 90% of parliament's text has been adopted and we have therefore not suffered great losses as a parliament, but that will not always be the case. and then it's not a question of the council saying, no, he can't discuss it. this is not a good cooperation and i really hope that this will remain the case and that we will return to normal cooperation in the future in the area of codecision. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are disappointed that the three large groups, the majority in this house, have refused to hold a proper second reading of the services directive today! you, dear mrs. gebhardt, fought to the end. but the more incomprehensible it is to us now, how can you present a result which you said not long ago was not legally precise and clear on some points as a great success for parliament! the council put us under a lot of pressure by declaring from the outset that any change to its text would lead to the failure of the whole directive. it was the same council, however, which declared at its first reading that it had adopted virtually the whole of parliament's text. well, unfortunately he did not take over the whole text of parliament; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it concerns the definition and exclusion of services in general and those of general economic interest. it is primarily about excluding social services and it is about recognizing the collective agreements of the social partners. they're not lapps! these are the central questions which the opponents of the constitution have used in france to get a 'no' vote on the constitution. we could have taken the council's word on this, since it has repeatedly stressed after the referendums that the new version of the services directive would fully respect social rights. unfortunately, this is not the case. it is a different matter whether i name exemplary social services or whether i am satisfied with an incomplete list which leaves large gaps in some member states and which must therefore ultimately be decided by the european court of justice. it is incomprehensible that this was accepted in the committee on the internal market! the rapporteur of this committee, mrs rudi ubeda, of the ppe group, has in her report on social services stated that there are great differences between the member states in the field of social services and that a definition is therefore necessary. but how can we exclude a sector with legal certainty that is not really defined? the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has, however, unfortunately not dealt with this question at all, but has instead reiterated its desire not to cause any difficulties to the council and therefore, in anticipation of the council's decision, to waive its right to a second reading of the services directive. this is not a success for parliament, but a defeat which we shall have to suffer for a long time to come! the commission's statement does not change that. it is at best binding on the present commission but has no binding legal effect, since the interpretation of the law is left to the ecj. commissioner mccreevy confirmed that again today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the services directive was from the outset the project of those who want a capitalism in europe stripped of all social protection zones. it will promote liberalisation, deregulation and privatisation, wage and social dumping on an unprecedented scale, for the benefit of the corporations, as a catastrophe for the majority of the people. the fact that this directive is going to be passed today, despite all the protests, despite all the resistance in this house, is due not least to the part of the socialist group which did its best to throw sand in the eyes of the people by means of lies and deceit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's a neoliberal hammer designed to wipe out everything social. if you agree with him, you have to know what you're doing. our resistance to this neo-liberal onslaught will continue!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the great brussels coalition, with its members largely excluded from the new member states, has today come far short of what it should have. in the right direction, but too short! the establishment of single points of contact will certainly help to reduce the administrative burden. it is also a win that a small company can no longer be forced to maintain a permanent establishment in another member state. but if we celebrate today that restrictions on foreign service providers must be justified and that government measures against them must be proportionate, then in 2006 we will celebrate something as an achievement that should have been taken for granted since 1994 at the latest. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the pursuit of the occupation of road haulage operator and the mutual recognition of their professional qualifications is a very good one. the pattern of failure is well known. alliances of employers and trade associations are fighting against innovation, competition and market opening. as in hardly any other debate, the risks were overstated to the point of grotesquely overstating the opportunities. the organized fear-mongering against eastern european workers has done its work, and the losers are the unemployed throughout europe. the commission too must ask itself why it lacked the courage to defend its own child against the attacks of the demagogues. it is now called upon to monitor implementation in the member states closely so that smes in particular are not burdened again by the national back door.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i do not wish to repeat in detail the thanks which mr toubon has expressed to all my colleagues, but i would like to express my gratitude in the same way. i believe that all the members - as othmar karas has said - have been very much involved and have contributed constructively to linking the fears in the countries of origin on the one hand with the opening of a path to the common internal market for services. the negotiations, which parliament has decided in a very special way, have also required a great deal of our staff, and parliament has - as has already been pointed out - established itself as both a determining and motivating institution and a conciliating one. malcolm harbour, our shadow rapporteur, spoke of a good day for the citizens of europe. it is only necessary to add that the road to reality that this framework directive offers to the citizens of europe has yet to be taken. and the member states must take this path in a concentrated and constructive way, because with the directive we are only laying the foundations for the european internal market in services to become a reality in the future. the principle of the country of origin has become the principle of freedom to provide services. the internal market must become a reality, but it must also be developed more thoroughly by the member states, by civil society actors, including the commission and parliament, in order to be understood by the citizens, as the bruegel institute has recently made very clear. we have a great task ahead of us. the criticism, which has been voiced in this house by some of the serious forces, that the ecj is being given too many tasks in the context of follow-up, i personally think is a trifling one, because in any case, in a framework directive, the main task remains with the member states. this is the main task which i would like to put to you, mr minister, as the council's representative.
member of the commission. for the record, i confirm that the commission will accept amendments 40, 41 and 42, which relate to comitology and introduce the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. the commission rejects all other amendments. concerns raised in these amendments have been addressed in the statements i made at the beginning of the debate. various members have commented on legal certainty and whether or not this directive will lead to a long list of disputes that will need to be settled by the european court of justice. i do not share this concern. there is broad consensus among member states on this text. i recall that no member state voted against the common position. the vast majority of members of this house indicate that they will support it in the vote that will take place in a short while. given this broad consensus, i do not see why member states would seek not to respect the directive. everyone agrees that we need to give the services sector a boost. this is exactly what this directive will do. at yesterday’s debate on the commission’s work programme, mr harbour and others made a very valid point about implementation and the resources to be attributed to that. at the commission, we will start to focus immediately on the transposition and implementation of this directive. simplifying life for service providers and their customers is hard work. member states have three years to implement the directive. they should start immediately, not because i say so but because their economies need this directive, and the commission will hold the member states accountable. the broad level of consensus that has manifested itself today is the result of a number of important innovations in our approach to lawmaking in the european union. firstly, parliament took on its role as co-legislator and, instead of taking the easy option of rejecting a very controversial proposal, meps rolled up their sleeves and reached agreement on essential modifications to the text that made it acceptable across the political divide. for me this was an important signal of the maturity of this institution. secondly, the presidency is building on your approach and it worked hard to build on this consensus. as well as bringing meps to the informal competitiveness council, which engaged directly in discussions with ministers, the presidency organised a series of meetings with the social partners. all of this greatly contributed to the agreement that you will vote on later today. it is appropriate that it was under the finnish presidency that some of these innovations were introduced because that is the motto of the finnish presidency. finally, two points. in thanking mrs gebhardt and mr harbour and everybody else – many meps from all sides of this house were involved in achieving the broad consensus that we reached and an enormous amount of hard work was done and great tribute has been paid to the meps here – i would also like to note that various commission officials worked extremely hard to effect the changes and to get from the text parliament produced at its first reading to the text that went to the council. i want to acknowledge that as well. for those of us who occasionally engage in the odd wager – not that this would be something that most members of this house would want to do! – i do not think that one year ago you would have wagered a lot of money on our reaching the position we are going to reach today. that is thanks to a large number of people, both here in parliament but also in the various member states and in the commission. i want to pay particular tribute to that. lastly, there has been at least one additional, unplanned benefit for me personally: i have got to know a very large number of members of parliament across all groupings over the last two years. this would not necessarily have been the case if i had not had to deal with this very controversial services directive. so i thank you for that. (applause)
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you briefly for a very interesting and constructive debate. the common objective of the european union is to improve the productivity and competitiveness of our economies and to increase employment. the creation of a common internal market for services which is more efficient is essential to achieve these objectives. mr president, i want to thank all of you. i look forward with great excitement and interest to the vote that is about to take place.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12.30 today. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
president of the council. the european union is deeply concerned about the violence in gaza in recent weeks. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. in addition, several people were injured. military action has also caused damage to the city's infrastructure. the european union deeply regrets the deaths and injuries caused by the violence. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. these attacks have now also caused one death, injuries and material damage. the union has called on the palestinian leadership to do everything possible to put an end to these attacks. the european union cannot accept the use of violence. every state has the right to defend itself, but that does not justify the use of excessive force or actions such as those seen in beit hanoun. israel must adapt its actions to the situation. israel must comply with international humanitarian law. security is not about one party. it's about all the people in the middle east. the european union has called on israel to end its military operations in gaza. the union has also urged the palestinian leadership to stop the rocket attacks, which have continued throughout the autumn in varying degrees. the aim of these attacks is likely to be to increase fear and insecurity, which is of course unfair to the civilian population. the israeli people must no longer live in a climate of constant fear, but they too have a right to peace. the palestinians must stop using violence to pursue political goals. the deepening cycle of violence threatens to destroy the chances of relaunching the middle east peace process. events such as those described above only distance the parties from the possibilities at hand, especially now when a peace process aimed at negotiating the implementation of a two-state model is needed. the aim remains the creation of a viable palestinian state a state that coexists peacefully with israel. the european union expresses its hope that the events in beit hanoun will not discourage the parties and the international community from pursuing a lasting and just peace. the european union also hopes that the beit hanoun attacks will not discourage the palestinians from continuing to seek reconciliation and the formation of a national unity government that could meet the quartet's conditions. the whole international community needs a credible partner. the palestinians have the right to a government that represents the interests of all its citizens. at the same time, the humanitarian situation of the palestinians has been a major concern for the european union. the economic and humanitarian situation in the palestinian territories is unsustainable. the situation would be considerably improved if israel kept the border posts of rafah and karni open and improved the movement of palestinians. the european union has also called on israel to collect the customs and tax revenues due to the palestinians. this could significantly ease the economic situation of the palestinians. the eu has also sought to help the palestinians. in total, more than eur 650 million has been granted through various channels this year, some 25% more than in the previous year. the so-called temporary international mechanism has been a functioning mechanism to support the palestinians and we hope that israel and other parties can also benefit from the mechanism. so the situation in the middle east is not very favourable in the light of the last few days, but despite this we must have faith in a better future. the european union supports the peace process with all means.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, thank you for inviting me on this symbolic date, 15 november, which is palestinian national day, to speak on the situation in gaza. the escalating violence in gaza recently culminated in the attack by the israeli defence forces on beit hanoun on 8 november, which resulted in the death of 18 palestinian civilians. in response, my colleague commissioner ferrero-waldner made a statement saying that she was ‘profoundly shocked by this particular event’. our thoughts now go to the uthamina family in particular, who lost six women and eight children, killed in their sleep, and to all the innocent palestinians and israelis who have lost their lives in this spiral of violence. after the attack, commissioner ferrero-waldner called on all sides to stop violence and give dialogue a chance. palestinian factions should stop firing rockets into israeli territory. whilst we recognise israel’s right to self defence, this should not come at the price of innocent lives. the beit hanoun attack is the latest in a series of incursions into the gaza strip which started on 28 june. military operations have caused damage to vital infrastructure, especially in gaza – including the power plant, major roads and bridges, and government buildings – and killed almost 300 palestinians, mostly civilians. in response, the commission has this year stepped up its assistance to meet increased emergency and humanitarian needs. in june 2006, we launched the temporary international mechanism, which channels member state and european community budget resources to contribute to relieve the socio-economic crisis in the palestinian territories. this temporary international mechanism has supported the delivery of basic services to 1.3 million people living in the gaza strip and social allowances to 100 000 vulnerable palestinians. the operation is now increasing its outreach to 150 000 cases. the commission, through echo, has allocated eur 84 million to help vulnerable palestinian households through the provision of food, water supply and sanitation, healthcare and social protection. the european commission is also providing a eur 26 million package of food aid. food and cash subsidies are channelled through the un relief and works agency to palestinian refugees registered as special hardship cases, while food packages are distributed to non-refugees via the un world food programme. the commission is also a major donor to the un relief and works agency. in 2006 we provided eur 64 million to its general fund. it manages health, education and other social services for palestinian refugees. in gaza these services constitute the only element of stability in an insecure environment. our efforts can alleviate the humanitarian crisis for the palestinians. however, its root cause, which is the lack of hope in a peaceful solution for israelis and palestinians, must be tackled urgently. there is an urgent need to return to a comprehensive peace process with a clear political perspective. the process of reconciliation between palestinians must be given a chance. we should encourage president abbas to continue efforts to form a national unity government, with a platform reflecting the so-called ‘quartet principles’ of non-violence, recognition of international agreements, recognition of israel as a state and allowing for early engagement. this will contribute to restoring hope for a viable and independent state for the palestinians. that is why the general affairs and external relation council, which met on monday, has welcomed the commission’s proposal to provide additional support to the palestinians as soon as a national unity government is formed. in order to provide this support before the end of the year, we will have to resort to the emergency aid reserve and obtain the agreement of the budget authority. the commission will count on the support of the european parliament. in parallel to eu assistance, israel should release hundreds of millions of dollars of tax and customs revenues, which it has collected on behalf of the palestinian authority and which it has withheld since march in response to the formation of the hamas-led government. we should all work together so that on the occasion of next year’s palestinian national day, we can celebrate progress towards the creation of a democratic, viable and sovereign palestinian state.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the situation in the middle east is disturbing, it is dangerous and it is tragic. it is worrying because the conflicts have been going on for decades and there is no end in sight. the situation is dangerous because it is accompanied by a constant escalation between the opposing parties, because there is an increasing influence of external powers such as syria or iran . and the situation is tragic because the common people, especially many children, are among the victims. we say to all parties in the middle east: there will be no military solution, we need peace through dialogue and negotiation. we also say that there cannot be a policy of 'an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth', because this will only escalate the situation further and further, and each side will attack the other more after each attack. we need to break this cycle of violence. we demand this of israel and we demand it of the palestinians. our position as the epp-ed group is quite clear. we want an israeli state within secure borders, and we want a palestinian state within secure borders. the dignity of an israeli is the same as that of a palestinian, and we must not measure with two different standards. we want a lebanese state that is independent and democratic. the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted on the matter is a sign that the european parliament is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on foreign affairs and security. the european union and others must now make a contribution to peace. i think that we as the european union strongly welcome the fact that we are also making a contribution to peace by means of the presence of military forces in the region, although we would have preferred a european armed force rather than individual national armed forces from the countries of the european union. but this is a question that we in the european union have to think about for the future, how we can make a truly european contribution here. but it is a step forward that troops are stationed there. but now we must move forward and make a genuinely joint european contribution, including a military one. now the politics must begin. in politics, the most important thing is trust and credibility. if there is something to criticize, we must criticize what is to be criticized, regardless of whether it is committed by israel or by the palestinians. it must not be that when it comes to decisions in the world security council, and i say this as someone who is very pro-american, when israel must be criticized or condemned, it is prevented by the veto of the united states. (applause from the centre) we cannot - and i say this in all seriousness - build credibility and, above all, we cannot build trust with all the partners involved. i believe that it is our chance as the european union, because we want the right to life for both israelis and palestinians and a peaceful situation in lebanon, to have credibility here. if israel has now caused these terrible consequences - as they say, through a technical error - by the massacre at beit hanun, then an apology is not enough, but we must shape our future policy in such a way that we do not always react according to the principle of 'an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth'. (applause from the centre) i have just received information that today a woman was killed by kassam missiles and a bodyguard of a minister had both legs amputated. this has to stop. we have to say that to both sides, and we have to be credible. we europeans must not look the other way, but must take responsibility! (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. it is not the first time that the european parliament has discussed the situation in gaza, and it is unlikely to be the last. but it is the first debate in this house to form an opinion which will bring about a change in the european union's relationship with one of our partner countries, israel. the comments made by mr poettering show that we need to discuss, across the political groups, the position to be taken by the european union on this development and, above all, on the role of israel and the israeli government in the development of this region. i don't expect anything from terrorist organizations. what do we expect from terrorists? the terror! contempt of the human race! the unspeakable suffering that these criminals have brought to the world and bring every day you just gave an example. what does a community of law like the european union expect from such people? i didn't say anything. these are not our partners. these are not the people we can and must rely on when it comes to peace. but we must expect something from a democratic state governed by the rule of law. israel, this wonderful country, israel, which was founded in response to the lowest point in human history, israel deserves our full solidarity in the region. anyone who questions and threatens the very existence of this state will be met with the resistance of all europeans. our solidarity with israel knows no bounds! but israel is a democratic state of law that must be questioned. a democracy built on the same basic values as our democracies, one may ask: how can an incident like that in beit hanun be called a technical incident? i expect that in a democratic legal culture those responsible for such a technical incident will be held accountable for what they have done! (applause from the centre) i regret to say that we had to interrupt our summer break in the european parliament because of a technical incident like this in cana. i still ask myself today, who are the people responsible for this? if there is collateral damage, then israel must be careful that its legal culture is not damaged as collateral damage in the development of the region. of course, it is true that israel must defend itself and must be able to defend itself and that we must help this country. what is happening in lebanon is for the security of israel. what we europeans want, for a stable palestinian state, is for the security of israel. all our efforts - financial, diplomatic and now military - are directed towards israel's security. but what we cannot accept - as the european union, which is a community of law - is that lawlessness is the answer to lawlessness. you can't do that! we cannot remain silent when a party enters government in a state like israel, which makes the ethnicity of its citizens a criterion, as mr liebermann's party does. this is unacceptable! (applause from the centre) it is the sovereign right of the israelis to vote for such a party, but it is the sovereign right of members of this house to condemn such a policy. mr liebermann is not the equal of any social democrat in the world. mr president, the only solution in the region is non-violence. dialogue is the only way. beyond any violence and any painful experience, we must try to talk to each other. there were good approaches: let us remember the efforts of yitzhak rabin, who was a commander-in-chief of the israeli armed forces, but he knew that dialogue was the only way to overcome war and military conflict. dialogue is no guarantee of success, but without dialogue, peace certainly never has a chance. that is why we expect israel to give priority to political dialogue and not to further militarization. (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam vice-president, madam president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the most important thing about these issues is that people are suffering, people on both sides, because they are victims of politics. the second point is that the middle east conflict has now reached such a dimension in the international context that it has become a central point for the maintenance or the threat of world peace. both are reasons why a solution must be found quickly and why the quartet must appear together with full presence and the highest personal standards and not just write papers for each other. we must recognize that israel has left gaza and that this is partly an internal struggle of the palestinians among themselves, accompanied by terror that is escalating there almost like a civil war. and israel as a state must respond to terrorist groups that are not subject to state responsibility. that is why we have difficulty in making an assessment. but this is no excuse for what has happened, for example, in this action against civilian homes and civilians, because israel too must see that the only chance for peace and lasting security in israel, as well as for a viable palestinian state, is to break the cycle of violence. for this reason, israel must consider whether the strategies it is adopting are really the right ones. what is israel gaining by waging a war in lebanon in retaliation for the capture of individual soldiers, with the result that eventually the pro-syrian forces have taken over the chain of iran, syria, hezbollah in lebanon? what, then, was the israeli interest in this war? we must also take some responsibility here, and since we have the opportunity these days of seeing a new consensus government in the palestinian territories, perhaps this way can be used to seek a new beginning, so that world peace can be secured and the people of the region have a future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the death comes after war, and these cluster bombs do not just fall from the sky, but we must realize that they are dropped by europe's allies and that they are still manufactured and exported by europe's allies. i can only disagree with you when you say that cluster bombs and unexploded ordnance are a challenge to former war zones. no, they are not a challenge to former war zones, but a challenge to the european union, which must ensure that no member state of the european union produces, exports or uses these weapons. nor can it allow allies to do so, such as the americans or our partner israel in the last war. it is against this background and because the european union is unable to take action that we wrote a letter to the finnish presidency two weeks ago - not us greens, but the coordinators of the conservatives, the socialists, the liberals and myself - with the urgent appeal that this review conference - which is a historic opportunity to ban the debate - should bring forward a european position on the vote. you've made it clear that you're not willing or able to do that. you say you're going to start a working group. you know the saying, "if you can't think of anything else to do, start a circle". it is cynical to think that every day the lives of civilians, police officers and even un troops that we send to crisis areas are threatened by the remnants of these weapons. i therefore urge you once again to take the initiative now and ensure that - you have the means - the national parliaments of the eu member states recognize these cluster munitions for what they are, namely, munitions to be disposed of, and that europeans definitively renounce accepting or using them in any war.
a writer. mr president, madam president of the council! no region can cope with major natural disasters on its own, whether they are forest fires, earthquakes or floods. the fight against this and, above all, the consequences of it are beyond the capacity of regional administrations. the regions concerned therefore need solidarity, primarily from neighbouring regions and national support. the responsibility for civil protection and disaster prevention lies with the national authorities. i am quite clear that we do not need a new european competence in this area. this creates a double structure and wastes money on administrative apparatus. i also find it difficult to accept the idea of using european funds from the structural funds or even funds for rural development. european rural policy is forward-looking. it supports national states in their regional innovation strategies in international competition. some are now calling for these precious resources to be used for forest fire prevention and compensation for victims. i must also say that it is not very sensible to use european structural funds for example for fire-snow. as we all know, we have the european solidarity fund for really big disasters, just in case individual countries are overwhelmed by natural disasters. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. i also call for more binding rules for the international coordination of crisis response, initially bilaterally between the states concerned and, in exceptional cases, also at european level. but please, no new european superstructures in civil protection, and please, no waste of precious european resources on tasks which are now really largely national affairs!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the situation is indeed completely unsatisfactory. we have 21 european agencies and a bewildering number of models. there is no transparency towards the public and the citizens, not even towards the chambers of citizens like this parliament. it is no longer transparent, and that is not a good example of orderly and good governance. we have already indicated in 2003 that a new order is needed in these agencies. in 2005, we did it again, and now another year has passed, and nothing has happened. it can't stay that way. the presidency of the council must make a real effort to establish a consensus in the council on how to reach an agreement with the other institutions - the commission and parliament - on the administration and accountability of these agencies. it is, as i said, a matter of public interest: the european food agency, the european medicines agency, the chemicals agency, the environment agency - all areas of public interest - and if no one knows who is responsible for what, or how it works, it is no wonder that people are frustrated with european policy. madam president, the council is actually forcing parliament to take stronger measures. you have seen that the committee on budgets has not approved the funds for the new agencies which we really want. the human rights agency, the agency for equality between men and women and the chemical agency have been placed in reserve and not released. this is almost an emergency operation to force the council to finally clarify matters. i hope you can get this thing moving.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. mr president, first of all i should like to point out that mr dimitrakopoulos has given me his two minutes, so i am in the fortunate position of having seven minutes. we are talking about the european union's security strategy, which was adopted on 12 september 2003 by the heads of state or government on the proposal of high commissioner solana. the basic outlines of this security strategy are still up to date, but we must also recognize that the geopolitical situation has changed in this period, that other priorities need to be set here, and that is why we are calling in this report for the council to submit to the european parliament once in every parliamentary term a report on the security strategy of the european union, which can then be discussed in the national parliaments and in the european parliament. the same is true in the united states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are putting different emphases on european security in the strategy than the united states is doing at present. we are betting on a multipolar world order. solana calls this effective multilateralism. we do not rely on coalitions of the willing, but on the united nations charter and on international organizations. if we are to succeed with this strategy, we must also be clear that we will only succeed if we also succeed in improving the efficiency of international organisations. the report also contains a proposal for a new definition of the next objective we should pursue, namely the security and defence union. the security and defence union is also something that the citizens of the european union want, because according to opinion polls, 70% of the citizens of the european union want the european union to be given responsibility for security and defence policy and for its security. this is what the citizens of the european union expect. but what is a security and defence union? the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to the mercy of the council of ministers. we are also proposing a deputy foreign minister who should also be responsible for defence matters. why would you do that? i am still chairman of the european parliament's subcommittee on security and defence. but i'm missing a point of contact on the executive side. this is also reflected in the fact that no one has taken his seat on the council bench. we need a point of contact in the executive branch on these issues that are developing. that's why we're calling for a deputy secretary of state. this also includes - this is not in this report, but i know that elmar brok is paying attention to this - a common diplomatic service and a mutual assistance obligation, as proposed in the draft constitution, but already included in the brussels treaty - the basis of the western european union. my personal suggestion would be that we should put this project of a security and defence union at the centre of our efforts to revive the constitutional process. i am convinced that it is easier to convince people that they want a common security and defence policy than to explain to them again what a constitution is. in the past we have always succeeded when we have first said what we want to do and then deduced from that what institutions and what institutional changes are necessary. that is why i believe it would make sense to put this project at the heart of the constitutional process. we have troops under the command of the european union today. they are in bosnia-herzegovina and the congo. from the beginning of 2007, we will have two battle groups every six months, in english they have the beautiful name battle groups, these are the battle groups that should be available at short notice. the european union and the european parliament have a special responsibility here, namely for the soldiers we send there - to the congo, to bosnia-herzegovina and elsewhere - so that they are not exposed to unnecessary risks. unnecessary risks arise for soldiers whenever the equipment or the leadership structure is inadequate. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this report to remedy the shortcomings in the information system which i have just seen in the congo. the european union still has substantial deficits in telecommunications and in land and sea transport. but above all we need effective democratic control. but democratic control includes information and consultation. this is often missing. we are not sufficiently informed about what is being planned on the council side. the interinstitutional agreement states that we are to be consulted, and this is done with great reluctance. questions of security, questions of war and peace are questions which should not be left to the generals. but it cannot be left to the executive alone, and we need democratic control through parliaments elected by the people, that is to say, the national parliaments and the european parliament.
vice-president of the commission. the commission welcomes this comprehensive report, which demonstrates the importance attached by the european parliament to the european security strategy and more generally to the field of security. as you know, this is not an area where the commission leads, but we make an important contribution to security in situations of crisis. i agree with the rapporteur that we need to act on the basis of a comprehensive concept of security in today’s security environment and that both external and internal security aspects need to be adequately addressed. we need to use all available instruments, be they civilian or military, be they in the hands of member states or the union, to achieve our goals in the security sphere. and, as stated in the commission’s communication of last june entitled ‘europe in the world’, we need to enhance coherence, effectiveness and visibility through a pragmatic and cooperative approach. let me assure you that the commission will continue to cooperate with the council in full respect of our respective institutional responsibilities. i am encouraged by recent efforts in the eu amongst member states, the commission and the council secretariat to work more closely together on achieving the goals of the european security strategy. let me mention some examples: the development of the concepts of security sector reform and disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration, as well as concrete actions in afghanistan and in the democratic republic of congo; the border assistance mission at rafah and in moldova, and the planned mission to kosovo. the new instruments introduced within the context of the 2007-2013 financial perspectives will facilitate better coordination. the stability instrument, in particular, with its short- and long-term orientation, will help us respond flexibly to upcoming challenges, while going some way towards meeting your demands for better parliamentary oversight in the security field. the commission has been actively developing policies to confront main security threats and to promote effective multilateralism. commission work has focused on, amongst other issues, the neighbourhood policy, the effectiveness of development assistance, humanitarian aid and civil protection. drawing lessons from the experience gathered so far, we will soon make proposals for a reinforced enp. the report also refers to various initiatives taken by the commission in the fields of disaster and crisis response, including health emergencies. the report welcomes the commission’s work on creating a european defence equipment market and specifically the forthcoming initiatives on defence procurement and intra-community transfers. we are grateful for the parliament’s continued support in this delicate area. progress here will help to strengthen the competitiveness of european industry and the development of military and civilian capabilities for eu policies. the commission is particularly grateful to the parliament for the support concerning security research and space policy, which are already specific thematic priorities of the seventh framework programme. we fully agree on the importance of research for competitiveness. in these areas, the commission is working closely with the european defence agency with a view to ensuring complementarity and synergies for the development of capabilities and the strengthening of the european industrial base. the commission and the european defence agency together have a key role to play in moving from a national to a european approach and in convergence between security and defence industries. we will do this within the limits imposed by the current institutional framework and clearly stated political positions concerning research for civilian and defence purposes by fully respecting the civilian character of the european security research programme. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the reports by parliament are most welcome, as are the joint meetings of the committee on foreign affairs with the corresponding committees of the national parliaments and the public hearings. regular stocktaking can be helpful in guiding our efforts to adjust our strategies to a changing environment. the commission is pleased to contribute to these debates by giving full information on its activities as part of the overall eu effort.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i would like to thank you, madam vice-president, for coming here and for documenting that the commission considers security and defence policy to be an important issue. the absence of the council on this issue shows - if i interpret it positively - that the finnish presidency of the council, with the abolition of the pillar structure, is on the way to accepting that security and defence policy has also been transferred to the community area. if i didn't have that positive interpretation, i'd be very upset that she's not here. this foreign, security and defence policy is becoming increasingly important, and i would like to thank karl von wogau for this report and also for the work that is coming from the subcommittee on security and defence which shows that we have a really crucial area ahead of us here because of the developments. i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter, and i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter, and i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter, and i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter, and i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter, and i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter, and i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is only by making us europeans more credible in our military capabilities that we can ensure that the transatlantic alliance does not rely solely on military capabilities, but also on the triad of prevention - giving priority to this - civilian crisis management and military capabilities. we can only do this by strengthening our position within the so-called west. we must therefore ensure that the link with nato is strengthened accordingly. i would be glad if there were not so many individual activities with the national headquarters, but if there was a political agreement that these actions should be more under the heading of 'berlin plus', because this means more common ground, but also more common ground and cooperation with nato.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not let me briefly comment on the committee's findings from our social democratic point of view. we have three points of interest. firstly, the strengthening of the diplomatic and civilian elements of the security strategy. secondly, to avoid falling into the trap of a possible military doctrine without any basis. there's no preemptive or anything like that in the text. thirdly, a clear separation between instruments and institutional needs. we believe that these are important developments. these points were raised in good cooperation with the rapporteur. i appreciate that, too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. we see the danger that as the christmas season approaches, the wish lists for purchases will become longer and longer. we should concentrate on the priorities we have decided: air transport, intelligence and communication. we do not need ambitions such as amphibious vehicles, a mediterranean fleet and aircraft carriers. this weakens the pursuit of the priorities that are really important in the sense of the strategy. it is also worth asking whether the latter examples do not belong to a context quite different from that of security strategy. on the other hand, although we will support most of the amendments which further clarify the diplomatic, civil and disarmament parts of the text, we do not believe that crisis prevention must use exclusively non-military instruments in all conceivable circumstances. the reality we are facing - and the rapporteur has mentioned this - is already different today. we have sent troops to macedonia to prevent a civil war from breaking out there, as has happened in other countries of the former yugoslavia. we have not only sent civilian instruments, but also a military contingent to the congo to ensure that the elections can be held peacefully. i am confident that this contingent of troops can return at the end of the month. finally, i would like to return to the point which the rapporteur mentioned at the very beginning and rightly emphasized, namely the need for a regular evaluation of the threat analysis and the measures taken in the context of the security strategy. the next step after the report has been adopted should be to discuss how we in parliament are organising this process.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is the good practice of this house to begin by congratulating the rapporteur warmly. i would like to do that, but i am deeply sorry that for the first time in two and a half years i cannot recommend to my group that it approve unless the main elements of our amendments are adopted. i want to justify this, first in terms of content and secondly in terms of form. the report reads - as one of my colleagues has pointed out - in many respects like a shopping list for the defence industry. however, this cannot be done under the heading of 'european security strategy and esdp', as these are much more complex concepts. in this respect, the report is not a comprehensive concept, but rather the opposite. i believe that the rapporteur has received 45 amendments from his own group, which is a considerable number. in detail: the report attempts to blur the contractual boundaries between external and internal security. europol is part of the esdp. the esdp is to be used to combat terrorism, protect infrastructure, protect energy supplies and protect external borders. the mixing of police, military and judicial functions is a flagrant breach of existing treaties. in addition, it creates additional security policy problems; it's exactly the approach of bush, cheney and the recently retired rumsfeld. homeland security as a copy of american security policy has already failed, we don't need to copy that. secondly, the report makes it appear as if the civilian arm of the european security and defence policy does not exist at all. the vast majority of the 17 esdp missions are civilian. the commission has also been very active in the fight against terrorism. thirdly, instead of going into detail about the defence market, it is time to talk about clear words in the context of european security, clear words in terms of conventional and nuclear disarmament. this area does not appear in the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we must seek to harmonize, we must force the nation states to harmonize their strategies, structures and equipment in the common interest. but a defense union, that's written somewhere in the stars. the greens have always been fundamentalists, but it's very surprising that you are now. i think that the decisions taken in cologne, helsinki and feira will be turned upside down. as a teacher, i would say to you: missing topic: 6. we had negotiated a consensus in the committee, which was broken at the last minute by the rapporteur himself. this is an unfair procedure which we cannot accept.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the greens seem to be learning. the chairman of the subcommittee on security and defence presented a report on eu military policy. the report has now been wrapped in social democratic cotton wool. the original clear language has been de-emphasized. the wording that the eu should be open to a preventive war concept under certain conditions, which was still present in the draft, was obviously no longer transferable. i guess that was too much straight talk. the report highlights the usual political mistakes of a militarized eu foreign policy. the ess's risk analysis, which is reproduced in the report, identifies as the main threats facing the european union and its citizens international terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts, state failure and organised crime. what about poverty, hunger and social inequality? the report mentions military border controls against whom? as well as military-backed access to resources. the eu wants to build a strategic partnership with nato. the report welcomes 'nato's increasing ability to play a role in operations outside its area of alliance'. this is in a report by the european parliament! the european union has also been called upon to provide a significant boost to europe's operational capabilities, including air and sea transport, and to further promote civil-military integration. the report is a catalogue of demands for even more militarization of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. after the tricks with athena, it is now proposed to introduce a virtual military budget. we all know that the treaty of nice rightly prohibits an independent eu military budget. the dead eu constitutional treaty is therefore being revived; it states: 'stresses the importance of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe, which is intended to make substantial progress towards a union for security and defence'. that is why we are opposed to this eu constitutional treaty. what is being called for here is an eu military union. the report's points 51 and 52 read like a wish list of those who want to make the eu exactly this military union: new weapons, more money to enable the eu to act militarily as a global player in the world. this is the wrong way! the eu is currently involved in at least 11 military and police operations worldwide. more are planned. now afghanistan is on the agenda. in afghanistan, more and more civilians are being killed by nato troops. the eu seems to want to get in on the action as quickly as possible. the order of the day is the withdrawal of troops, for example from afghanistan. we do not need any more european union reinforcements. we need a civilised european union. disarmament is the order of the day!
the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report by mr karl von wogau on the implementation of the european security strategy in the context of the esdp.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european security and defence policy is facing major challenges. the eu must not turn a blind eye to this. the eu's international engagement is certain to continue to grow in the future. the worrying developments in the middle east, north korea and iran are harbingers of this trend. we need effective decision-making mechanisms, a clear command structure, clear responsibilities, competent personnel who can be deployed quickly and equipped with modern equipment, and the logistical capabilities to move troops quickly to their places of duty. these demands are contained in the wogau report. it also makes clear proposals for improving them. we shall therefore support this report. the esdp has made progress in recent years. the battle groups will be fully operational from 1 january 2007. the council of foreign ministers yesterday noted that the quality of equipment in the armies of the member states has continued to improve. the european defence agency makes a valuable contribution to the harmonisation of the arms market and to the coordination of joint research projects in the field of security and defence. however, the increasingly irregular scheduling of eu missions remains a concern. the increasing number of missions requires their democratic legitimacy. but it cannot be guaranteed if the financial planning goes beyond the european parliament. this creates a lack of transparency which cannot be justified. the report makes refreshingly clear proposals on how to prevent this. we are fully behind you on this. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by giuseppe gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the recommendations to the commission on the law of succession and wills (2005/2148 (ini)) (a6-0359/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the report by mrs ana maria gomes, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on women in international politics (2006/2057 (ini)) (a6-0362/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the report by mrs bauer, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on combating trafficking in human beings: an integrated approach and proposals for an action plan (2006/2078 (ini)) (a6-0368/2006).
ombudsman. mr president, i wish to thank you for this opportunity to address parliament and to present the annual report for 2005, a year in which the office of the european ombudsman celebrated an important milestone: its tenth year of operation. the annual report records our progress in handling complaints, promoting good administration and making the ombudsman’s work better known to citizens. in total, 3920 complaints were received, a 5% increase compared to the previous year. i note that a rise in complaints does not necessarily result from worsening administrative behaviour by the european union’s institutions; rather, it may also reflect citizens’ increased general awareness of matters european and growing knowledge about their rights and about how to exercise those rights. this general awareness was also observed during 2005 in the participation of citizens in the debate about the future of the european union and the constitution. to contribute to the furthering of this general awareness, i made intensive efforts to inform citizens about their rights and to spread the word about the positive results that have been achieved in defence of those rights. all in all, i and my staff gave over 170 public lectures, presentations and press interviews, in addition to meeting with ombudsmen, public officials and other interlocutors in the member states. a particular feature of these communication activities in 2005 was a series of events to mark the tenth anniversary of the ombudsman, directed at specific target groups, namely, civil society, academia, the press and the institutions themselves, including a reception in honour of the european parliament on 27 september, which was addressed by president borrell fontelles himself. during 2005, i was able to assist over 75% of the people who complained to me. this assistance took the form of opening an inquiry, transferring the case to a competent body, or advising on where to turn for a prompt and effective solution to the problem. i closed 312 inquiries during the year. in 36% of the cases, the inquiry revealed no maladministration. such a finding is not always negative for the complainant, who at least has the benefit of a full explanation from the institutional body involved. furthermore, even when there is no maladministration i may identify an opportunity for the institutional body to improve the quality of its administration in the future. if so, i make a further remark in closing my decision. wherever i find maladministration, i try if possible to achieve a positive-sum outcome that satisfies both the complainant and the institution. in 30% of cases my inquiry has resulted either in the institution concerned settling the case to the satisfaction of the complainant, or in a friendly solution. when a friendly solution is not possible, i close the case with a critical remark or make a draft recommendation. one of the draft recommendations accepted in 2005 was a case in which the commission granted ex gratia compensation to a complainant whose project it had cancelled at extremely short notice. the commission agreed to pay eur 56 000, the largest such settlement ever secured by the ombudsman. if a community institutional body fails to respond satisfactorily to a draft recommendation, the ombudsman’s ultimate weapon is a special report to parliament. three special reports were made in 2005: on the council’s continuing practice of legislating in camera; on the commission’s responsibility for children of its officials with special educational needs; and on the nature of information provided by olaf to the ombudsman during a previous enquiry. i am grateful to parliament for its support as expressed in its resolutions of 4 and 6 april 2006, based on the hammerstein mintz and de rossa reports respectively and concerning the first two of these special reports. i would now like to say a few words about my priorities for the future. as indicated before, the first priority is to promote a citizen-centred approach by the eu institutions and bodies in all their activities. to that end i seek every opportunity to reach out to eu institutions, to encourage best practice and promote friendly solutions. the active cooperation of the institutions and bodies is essential to the success of the ombudsman’s work for citizens. the annual report contains many examples of the institutions taking prompt action to settle cases brought to their attention and responding positively to my proposals and recommendations. during visits to the institutions and bodies, i underlined the value of reacting promptly and constructively to complaints. the ultimate goal for all of us must be to ensure the best possible service to the citizen. the commission has already taken constructive steps to improve its service to citizens by overhauling its system of handling the ombudsman’s inquiries resulting from complaints. in its communication of november 2005 the commission outlined the new procedure to apply henceforth. commissioner wallström’s idea in designing the new procedure was to give individual commissioners greater ownership of cases, while fully maintaining the valuable role of the secretariat-general. i am particularly grateful for her efforts in bringing that concept to fruition and for her continuing commitment to its proper implementation. the new procedure allows individual commissioners to get involved in cases at an early stage, when options still remain open. the speed of the new procedure already bore fruit in a case in which i found that the commission’s response to a citizen’s infringement complaint had been unsatisfactory. i held a meeting with commissioner mccreevy and learned from him that the commission had taken steps to resolve that particular issue. i believe that the successful resolution of that case illustrates the value both of the ombudsman’s role in promoting good administration in the infringement procedure and of the concept of greater ownership of cases by individual commissioners. i wish to thank the commission for that in the presence of vice-president wallström. i have also revisited the question of the ombudsman’s statute by submitting to president borrell fontelles in july considered proposals for revision, in response to earlier resolutions on the ombudsman’s annual report by this house. overall the statute continues to provide a good framework for the ombudsman’s investigations and for effective cooperation with the institutions to promote good administration and fight maladministration. the changes i propose are therefore limited both in number and scope. my principal objective is to ensure that citizens can have full confidence in the ombudsman’s power to find the truth when hearing witnesses or inspecting documents. i should also like to cooperate with parliament to ensure that citizens’ complaints about violations of the fundamental rights mentioned in the charter can be brought before the court of justice if an important issue of principle cannot be resolved in any other way. parliament already has full rights as an institution to initiate cases before the court. in this context, it would be useful for the ombudsman to have the power to intervene in such cases, a power that has already been given to the european data protection supervisor, with whom i have developed a close working relationship. i look forward to working with mr guardans cambó and mrs matsouka as they embark upon the process of drawing up a report and opinion concerning this proposed vision in the committee on constitutional affairs and the committee on petitions respectively. my third priority is to deepen my close cooperation with ombudsmen in the member states through the european network of ombudsmen. the aim is to promote good administration throughout the union in order that citizens can enjoy their rights under european law. i am delighted that the committee on petitions participates in the network as a full member and was represented at the meeting of national ombudsmen that took place in the hague in september 2005. next week, a similar meeting for regional ombudsmen in the european union, with whom i have made a commitment to meet every two years, will be held in london. i should like to thank the members of the committee on petitions, and in particular this year’s rapporteur mr schwab, for their support and constructive proposals as set out in parliament’s report. i have already mentioned today many of the matters on which the report contains wise advice to the ombudsman. i am committed to improving the information given to parliament and citizens about the services provided by me and by the european network of ombudsmen. i have already asked to appear before the committee on petitions whenever i submit a special report to this house. next year, i intend to put an interactive guide on our website to help complainants find the appropriate ombudsman to deal with, be it at european, national or regional level. i believe this will be of great benefit to citizens and help address the concerns rightly expressed in mr schwab’s report about the large percentage of inadmissible complaints. last year we successfully consolidated the office of the european ombudsman and moved firmly in the direction of enhancing the institution’s ability to deal effectively with complaints and inquiries from citizens of the enlarged european union. to that end, we could always count upon the support of two of parliament’s most senior officials who are about to retire or have just retired – mr priestley and mr garzón clariana. their wise counsel and assistance to the ombudsman have been invaluable and will long be remembered. i believe that the relationship of goodwill, trust and understanding built up over the last decade between the european ombudsman and eu institutions constitutes a precious resource for improving the quality of public administration in europe to the benefit of citizens. it is enormously reassuring to me, both personally and institutionally, to know that in this regard the european parliament and its committee on petitions are vital partners for the european ombudsman. i intend to make the most of that partnership in seeking to contribute to the deepening of a service culture to the benefit of eu citizens. thank you for your attention. (applause)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the defence are respected. i am delighted that you all got up so early to be here today for the debate on the report on the ombudsman's 2005 annual report. i would like to begin by thanking you very warmly, mr diamandouros, for the constructive contribution you have made in your annual report. i was able to draw up the parliament's report on your annual report for the committee on petitions and i would like to take this opportunity of thanking all the colleagues who have contributed constructively to the preparation of this report by means of amendments and personal comments, in particular our coordinator, robert atkins, and my predecessor from last year, manolis mavrommatis. i am glad that you have said at the outset that the ombudsman's status should be clarified in the light of the increasing number of tasks that citizens are entrusting to him, and i am very grateful to you for clarifying this again today. we should try to define the roles of the various european institutions as clearly as possible. in this respect, the discussions on your letter to president borrell can lead us to a good goal. the ombudsman is an important european institution. it is of particular importance for european development and in particular for european citizens. it stands for a european union that is close to its citizens and transparent. it is the forum to which european citizens can turn to complain about the way in which the institutions are working. this is a very personal relationship with europe, which is not possible everywhere in the same way. the ombudsman therefore has a special position. we should embrace this idea - namely, that european policy should be more oriented towards practice, towards the interests of citizens - even more in the future! we need to put citizens more at the centre of our policies, showing them that their concerns - big or small, important or unimportant - are taken seriously. we are doing this by improving the communication of european policies and by increasing transparency, which already addresses two important points in my report on your annual report. the ombudsman's annual report, which is sent to the committee on petitions, provides information on the committee's activities during the past year. i would like to thank you for your excellent work in this regard. you have been in office since 1 april 2003 and you have done your job very successfully. i think that the report we have produced as a parliament is very balanced and i have tried to examine the amendments tabled by my colleagues and to incorporate them as far as i thought possible. i believe that the most important objective, namely that the report should be understandable to the public, has been achieved. however, after the vote in committee i assumed that not all amendments would be tabled again. i shall therefore recommend to my group that these motions be rejected. i ask your understanding. we have been trying for a long time to find compromises on this issue. the ombudsman himself has presented the main points of his report. in 2005, there were a number of complaints, the highest number of complaints ever to the european ombudsman. this is one reason why more and more citizens are actively engaging with the eu, including its way of working. the alarming thing - and you have pointed this out - is still the high number of complaints that do not fall within your area of competence, which is about 70%. this is often because citizens do not know exactly where to turn. i therefore welcome your statement that you want to use an online form on your homepage to provide a guide to the right institution, which would be useful to all those who want to contact you via the computer. we need even more clarity in the division of powers and responsibilities between the institutions so that citizens understand who is responsible for what in the european union. they can help to bring more transparency to the thickness of institutions and responsibilities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we also expressly welcome the european network of ombudsmen and petition bodies, which are very different in the various member states. we have therefore highlighted your information events. the first is the lack of transparency as regards the content of the various complaints. the report therefore sets out the ombudsman's requests in his special report on the opening of council meetings, namely all council meetings when the council is meeting as legislator. you have done a good service to democracy and transparency in europe. but on the other hand we also need more transparency in order to ensure the democratic functioning of the european union. that is why we are calling in our report - and perhaps this is more directed at you, mrs wallström - for a different approach to the present structure of the internet portal www.europa.eu, which provides access to all the institutions, namely that we should put a clear guide to the various european institutions on the first page rather than a catalogue of information on all the european union's activities. i would like to conclude with one final thought. you submitted your annual report for the past year in january. we are discussing this today, in november next year. we should endeavour, as the committee on petitions, to discuss these reports in time for their publication!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a point of order about what the honourable member, mrs mcguinness, has said: the rottweilers she referred to are from the town where i was born. i feel like a rottweiler. if i can help you in this way, mr diamandouros, i shall be glad to do so.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. i am actually glad that we have the debate on information policy right after the ombudsman debate. the ombudsman was quoted many times this morning in his dealings with the citizens. i have the problem that we in the committee find that the commission, in its relations with citizens, often lags behind what the ombudsman actually wants. the commission's responses to the many requests from citizens or project promoters in the european union are often unloving or even crunchy, and that simply cannot be. the very citizens who have a concern and who respond to calls for proposals are often treated so unfriendly that they naturally lose the will to continue working on european projects. what about the citizens who are not involved at all because they have other interests? we are not going to achieve it that way, and if we are now trying to involve the citizens better, then i have to say that this cannot be done with a new communication strategy from the commission. we need the people on the ground and we need to talk to them on the ground. this cannot be done from brussels. the commissioner is a woman of good will. she really wants to communicate. the problem is that the citizens do not want to be served by the commissioner at all, because they say that the commission is in favour of it anyway, but we do not believe that. so you need elected citizens at home, you need the members of the parliament, the bundestag, the regional parliaments, who are also the interlocutors for european affairs. our big problem is they don't feel responsible. we must try to make communication more accessible to the public. we must strengthen the information points in the cities, we must create more information points, because such information points in the town halls appeal to the citizens. of course, we must also make use of the existing european union programmes, particularly in the field of education. the best communication strategy is the comenius, erasmus and leonardo education programmes. if we use them, we will find the citizens we need to build this europe.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not there's been an editorial problem. i therefore propose that we vote against amendment no 21 in the light of the voting list i have proposed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have been asked by the liberal group if i can make a small change. i am happy to do so because it does not change the political direction at all. the last line then reads: "would welcome the willingness of the united states to join in such negotiations with iran". i shall therefore gladly take up the liberal proposal and amend the text accordingly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we would like to have paragraph 1 part 2 reviewed. we announced it in time. please check the vote.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to speak on a point of order. we discussed this morning with the european ombudsman the question of the control powers he exercises through the european personnel agency epso, and he confirmed to us that he exercises these powers ex officio. i would therefore like to ask the colleagues with whom we discussed this morning to accept together amendment no 1 by mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou, because it confirms what the european ombudsman has said.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a city barred by barbed wire. the ghost town of varosha is an unbearable state of affairs in europe! for 32 years, the city of some 30,000 people has been empty. these people can see their homes from a distance behind a fence, and the desire to return is unwavering. i think they have a right to do that. i know, commissioner, that we in this parliament and you in the commission cannot solve the cyprus problem alone. if it had been the european parliament or the commission, we would have a solution today based on the annan plan. but, although we were disappointed by the overwhelming 'no' vote of the greek cypriots, we have to respect it, and i say very clearly that we have respected it. we hope, however, that a solution will be found soon. the return of varosha to its original inhabitants, the bi-municipal administration of the city, the coexistence of cypriots of both ethnic groups in famagusta could be genuine confidence-building measures and further positive developments. commissioner, you have indicated that the finnish presidency is currently working to make possible the direct trade between the eu and northern cyprus that has been promised for more than two years. we are in agreement with the turkish cypriots. but the opening of varosha as proposed by the petitioners could help people who have been waiting for their return for 32 years, and at the same time allow a new coexistence that can pave the way for a total solution. i hope that the finnish presidency will reconsider its proposal in this respect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this magnificent city of strasbourg, where the european parliament has its sole seat and hopefully will have one in the future, was proposed by the british labour politician ernest bevin after the second world war as the capital of european unification. bevin said at the time: "few cities have suffered more from human stupidity than strasbourg". that's why it's the ideal place to overcome human stupidity. i wish something similar could be said about famagusta soon. famagusta is the symbol of a brutal, unlawful, unhuman and senseless expulsion. it could, through a simple act of good will, become a symbol of the overcoming of nationalism and expulsion, with a radiance far beyond cyprus, without any serious problem. i remember once when i was in northern cyprus, i had a driver there, a turkish cypriot who spoke greek well, and he said: 'i have deep sympathy for my greek-speaking fellow cypriots, and our problem is not the greek cypriots, but the turkish army and the settlers who have been artificially brought into this country.' they have an interest in maintaining this quarrel. we should fight it! we should make sure that the two ethnic groups reconcile and that those who were displaced to famagusta can return to their ancestral homeland. this would be a sign to the whole mediterranean region, to europe and to the whole world that people of different ethnic groups can live together peacefully on the basis of the rule of law. cyprus could become an example here for many, many other crisis centres. so i thank the people who started this petition for bringing this up. we all owe them our solidarity, so that they finally get their due and famagusta becomes again a flourishing place of commerce and culture, as it has always been in its proud and traditional history and hopefully will be in the future! (applause from the centre)
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. last month i was able to lead a delegation to ethiopia with my colleague, mrs glennis kinnock, and two african colleagues. we have held talks there with the government and the opposition, as well as with the families of the opposition prisoners. we are very concerned about the situation there! we have seen that the government in particular has no will to draw any real conclusions from the election results on the one hand and from the findings of a commission of inquiry set up by the government itself through parliament on the other. we have asked the prime minister to use these findings of the commission of inquiry as a starting point for a national dialogue. he did not say very clearly, on the contrary, we have had to note that the members of this commission have been put under pressure, some have fled abroad. the report will probably be published in a polished, distorted version if it is published at all. we are grateful that the president of the commission has found very clear words to say to the prime minister during his visit. unfortunately, the commissioner for development's invitation to mr meles to come to brussels contradicts the commission's position. i think it is important that now that we have a new instrument for democracy and human rights, it becomes an effective instrument so that we can support democratic political forces. this formulation must be incorporated into the new rules, otherwise how can we provide legal assistance to the opposition, how can we help members who have assumed their mandate but who have no means to exercise their constitutional rights? i therefore call not only on the commission but also on the member states to abandon their opposition to such a formulation in favour of an effective instrument for democracy and human rights!
a writer. the commission is not it started two weeks ago with a controversial televised speech by khaleda zia, the outgoing prime minister of bangladesh. then, there was heavy fighting in the capital, dhaka. three people were killed, hundreds were injured. the opposition's accusation is that zia has appointed sympathizers to key posts in his transitional government. the head of the electoral commission is biased and there are 13 million invalid names on the electoral register. earlier this week, violence erupted again. all land and water access to dhaka has been blocked, journalists have been attacked and seriously injured. 20,000 security forces used tear gas and rubber bullets in street battles: 17 dead and thousands injured. attacks by islamists on followers of other religions are on the rise. on behalf of the epp-ed group, i condemn the bloody riots, the constant attacks by islamist extremists on religious minorities, christians, ahmadi and hindus, and the suppression of press freedom, as my colleagues have already mentioned. the ruling bangladesh nationalist party and the opposition awami league must finally put aside their personal differences and start a meaningful dialogue. the date for the elections must be observed. the commission must now make the necessary preparations and, in particular, ensure that the electoral register is correct. the civil war-like situation must be ended as soon as possible and the islamists disarmed. the citizens must be able to exercise their right to vote freely without repression if democracy is to have a fair chance in the country. i welcome the european commission's willingness to send election observers to bangladesh and the european parliament should take the same decision.
a writer. the commission is not it may surprise you to learn that i agree with mr strož on many points. i think we need to paint a very different picture of iran. that is why we have drawn up a very comprehensive and very thorough resolution. this shows how much we are concerned about the situation in iran, but it also shows how seriously and how important we take this country. it's one of the oldest cultures in the world. it has been a world power for thousands of years and we must try to bring it back gradually, through wise policy and diplomacy, into the community of states that cooperate well with each other in a neighbourly relationship. but, of course, this requires a fundamental change in iran. there has been talk of minorities. in iran, which is actually a multiethnic state so you can't really speak of minorities , it is an ancient tradition that the different nations and ethnic groups live well together. religious tolerance was also higher than in many other countries in the region. however, today minorities such as the azeri or other religions, not least other islamic sects such as the sufi, suffer greatly from the dominant state ideology of islamism. on the other hand, we see in iran a development that more and more self-confident women are entering politics, that a young generation is taking a completely new path and carrying a great hope for the future. we must therefore see this multifaceted structure clearly for what it is and not isolate it. we must seek contact with the different communities and ethnic groups and the different generations of this people, but at the same time we must say that we do not accept police rule, the suppression of freedom of expression, the persecution of many people because of their faith or because of their convictions. first of all, we must not accept the failures of president ahmadinejad to deal with israel. under his leadership, the conditions in this great country have unfortunately turned negative. it is our duty as europeans to take a strong stand against this. we need cooperation with the united states of america and i hope that it will improve on this issue too, in view of recent political developments.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is wonderful how we complement each other, mr president. i was just about to congratulate you, but first i'd like to start with you. i would like to congratulate you, because yesterday european voice named you mep of the year 2006. i'm very happy for you. i would also like to congratulate my colleagues martin schulz and graham watson on their re-election. as the chairman of the political groups, i know how much the chairmen of the political groups appreciate this. i just heard that daniel cohn-bendit was re-elected, so i'm guessing monica frassoni is, too. congratulations to you too. (applause from the centre) it is always a good experience for a group chairman to be re-elected for another two and a half years. i cannot say that at this stage, but i am all the more pleased that my colleagues have been re-elected. mr president, what you have said speaks to the good european voice of ireland, and you are saying it not only because ireland has benefited so much from the european union, but you are saying it as a committed european, and that has always been the good experience with ireland. whether it is your family or our family in government - the last prime minister from our family was john bruton, who is now our ambassador in washington - it shows that ireland is deeply committed to european unity. your speech today made that clear again. we are delighted and welcome to have you here today. ladies and gentlemen, we are now thinking about the future of europe, and prime minister ahern mentioned 25 march: 50 years of the treaties of rome. i think that the berlin declaration - a joint declaration by the european council, the european parliament and the european commission - is a good opportunity to say to the citizens of the european union: we, the european institutions - even if we have differences of opinion here and there - are united in our determination to lead the european union into a good future. if this is achieved in berlin, then we have sent an important political and psychological signal for the summit at the end of june. the summit will then decide, firstly, on the method of proceeding with the constitutional treaty and, secondly, on the mandate we give to the conference which will deal with it. i say on behalf of our group, and in particular the epp group, that we naturally insist - and we ask for your support, mr prime minister - that the european parliament be involved in such a conference in an effective, strong and efficient way. we hope that it will continue at the end of june and that we will be able to discuss the future of the constitutional treaty under the portuguese and slovenian presidencies. i would like to make it quite clear on behalf of our group, the epp group, that we do not want to start over again - the term 're-negotiation' is completely wrong - but we want to preserve as much of the substance of the constitutional treaty as possible, particularly as regards the reforms in part 1 and the value section of the charter. because first of all, we believe that we need these values. without a foundation of values, the european union has no future. secondly, we must make the european union fit for the challenges we face, whether they concern the internal or external policies of the european union. we must strengthen this european union, we must make it stronger, we must make it more democratic, more effective and more transparent. you have made your point, and we thank you for it. if we walk this path together, we will also succeed together.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i thank you for your congratulations and i congratulate you all, whatever your elected office may be today. i should like to concentrate on the speech by prime minister ahern. i think it is good that mr ahern has come to the european parliament. thank you, mr. prime minister, for coming. it's not a given. not all your colleagues in the european council have the courage to come here and commit themselves to europe. i want to say clearly to you: i commend the heads of government who also publicly support the european project, who come here and say: despite all the difficulties we have, we are with europe. (applause from the centre) because we have too many heads of government who come here, who run away to make a quick exit from the european parliament and perhaps take some funds from some european funds with them, and then go home and say: europe is the problem! we have too many of those people. what we need are men and women in leadership positions in europe - whether in the member states or in the european institutions - who are committed to this project. so, mr. ahern, first of all, thank you for being here. i would like to make a second comment on the content of your speech. i would like to stress that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the five priorities you have set, including the conviction that ireland is a constitutional state on principle, that you want to keep the core of this constitution and that you say we must not move away from this core because the essential content is the basis for the future of europe - all that is great! the only thing that's missing is ratification! so, now, take courage and ratify this constitution! that would have been the icing on the cake of your speech today. i do not want to overwhelm you, because you have at least taken the first step in the right direction. and even if you ratified it in ireland now, we would be only a little bit further along. i mean, at least. then 19 of the 27 states would have ratified. and because 18 countries have already done so or are on their way to doing so, it can and must be said that the majority of the member states of the european union want the contents of this constitution. it's a minority that doesn't want it. i think it's fair to say that this minority needs to move. it cannot be that everyone is discussing the future of europe and those who said no think it is none of their business. the netherlands and france must also be involved in a future process on the basis of the text adopted by the overwhelming majority of the member states. i believe that if we do not stray too far from this text, if we can actually preserve its content, then we will also save the president of the commission from having to walk like a wishing-wheel through the country to find some portfolios for his commissioners. if we need proof that nice is not working and that we urgently need the constitution, then that is what we are experiencing with the commissioners from bulgaria and romania. so, thank you very much, mr ahern on the way to a renewed constitution we need you, and we thank you for your encouraging speech! (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. i listened with great interest to your speech on the future of europe. i think we have reached a point which could easily be defined as the point of no future if we proceed according to the method of 'continue like this'. the future of europe is clearly linked to the future of a constitutional treaty for the european union. but this requires a long-term process of discussion with the citizens of this european union. there are more reasons than those which have been mentioned repeatedly in the past why people are afraid that this european union cannot offer them a future. i think that the text which has been tabled has not answered a contradiction which is unfortunately all too often ignored. we have defined what we have brought to this european union in terms of wealth through the various peoples and nations - namely their very different cultural identities - but we have not succeeded in defining what we will do together with this wealth. asking 'what do we bring?' is one thing, but thinking about what we make of it, how to develop a common political identity, is a process that cannot be done casually, and certainly not by telling people over and over again the same thing, namely that they have not yet understood what we really want. i therefore believe that people's everyday experience of the european union must be taken up and translated into concrete policies that affect their future and also their present. this is particularly true of the question of a european social union. it has been criminally neglected. it is not good for us to talk about individual points and people experience the opposite. we have just witnessed the discussion among volkswagen workers in brussels, and we have seen it on various other points. the european union is reflected in the daily lives of many people, unfortunately in the form of a declining job security, a declining social security. it cannot lead to people engaging with these processes and engaging positively with them. but that is precisely what we need, and i think we should discuss more about how we can create the conditions for cultural identities to develop into common political identities and a citizenship identity of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr prime minister, i congratulate you on your speech to this parliament. i am also grateful for the clear guidance you have given on the constitutional treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that would really tear the soul and heart out of this new treaty, as has been said here. the charter of fundamental rights, the elements of people's participation, the democratic elements, but also the social innovations - all of these go together. the whole thing was a package deal, it was a global compromise, and it cannot be torn apart. the formula must therefore be: we remain firm in the substance, but we are flexible in the form that the new treaty can take. i agree with you completely that such a contract should not be a book, but should be compact, precise and concise. the third part of the contract is a contract that we have every chance of shortening. you also mentioned additional elements. they are then the means of responding to the concerns and fears of the people of the netherlands and france. but we also need a clear idea from these two countries of what needs to be changed. there are colleagues here who seem to know what the people wanted. for me, that no was completely vague. it is not known exactly where it was located. we are therefore waiting for the french elections and the new dutch government to know exactly what additional elements we will need. i would like you to give this speech not only here, but in many capitals of the eu. the council has reached agreement under your chairmanship, and you have a responsibility to rally the friends of the constitution and to push through this project.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. relations with russia are of strategic importance. when we look at the developments in the middle east and take into account the way russia is being used in the security council on issues such as iran, north korea and similar problems, we know that it is in our interest to have russia on our side on such issues. we also know that, in the context of the extension of the mandate to negotiate a new partnership and cooperation agreement, it is precisely issues relating to energy security and democracy and human rights in russia that are to be included in that agreement. to achieve that, you have to negotiate. that is why a veto is not helpful, because then you cannot find a solution to such questions. i also think it is extremely important that the commission and the council take note in their negotiations - you can use this as an argument - that such an agreement must ultimately be ratified by the european parliament and that we will not accept an agreement which does not take into account certain conditions, for example in the field of human rights or energy security, which are crucial in the sense of solidarity between all the member states of the european union. let me make one point which makes it clear that this strategic interest is of course promoted by the european union acting as a unit in foreign policy, but also makes it clear that solidarity can be shown in smaller matters such as the trade issue with poland. if the impression is created that if a third country takes trade measures, in the event that it hits germany or the uk or france, you immediately go up in arms and make a big show, then smaller or new member states feel that their problems are not being taken into account properly, and we have a problem with credibility. that is why i can understand poland in the way this trade issue between russia and poland has been handled so far. there are no longer any measures against a single country, because there is only a single trade policy! i therefore ask the commission and the commissioner responsible for trade to put this on the priority list in future. this was not done in the case of poland, nor three quarters ago in the case of iran/denmark. i think the commission must understand that this is an important message to the people of the member states that we take their concerns seriously and we care about them. it will also make it easier to reach agreement on other matters.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we are not entirely satisfied with these reports. i would just like to say that our group has tabled two amendments to the van orden report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is clear that the so-called flexibility in the closure of the nuclear power plant is contrary to article 30 of the accession treaty. even the commissioner for energy, andris piebalgs, is opposed to the contractual agreements being negotiated. this is where the nuclear lobby sneaks in through the back door. the delay in the closure of both blocks is intended to be a test for other duration agreements and their dilution? kosloduj is one of the most unsafe and dangerous sites in europe. the conditions for accession were and are the closure of blocks 3 and 4 later this year. the bulgarian government must respect the treaties and the european side must not give the impression that parliament is opposed to existing treaties. this puts parliament in a difficult, even embarrassing position vis-à-vis the council and the commission, and the impression that members are not bound by agreements after they have joined would be fatal to further accessions.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to congratulate both countries on the accession of romania and bulgaria, just a few weeks away. you are welcome! this is part of the overcoming of the division of europe, this is a victory of democracy and the rule of law over dictatorship, this is the victory of democratic europe over the violent men of the last century, over hitler and stalin, over shikov and ceausescu. we should see it in that context, but it still needs to be done right by hand for it to work. for this reason, it is important to remember that there are transitional arrangements. this includes the free movement of workers with the appropriate process, as was also the case in the other enlargement treaties. such transitional arrangements do not constitute discrimination against the countries concerned. transitional arrangements are always mutually beneficial, that is the most normal thing in the world, and here the protective clauses have been introduced in addition. i would like to thank the commissioner for stating here in parliament that these safeguard clauses are also applicable in the areas mentioned. in some areas, such as milk and meat, they have already been applied and should there be a need, particularly in the area of legal and internal policy or the use of funds, the safeguard clauses can be applied immediately, as the commissioner has said. we'll take your word for it. this is not a case of mistrust of the two countries concerned, but a completely normal procedure. for this reason, parliament will pursue the monitoring process which is still possible three years after accession. in this way we will surely come together to form a strong european union. i would like to remind you that the debate on the european union's ability to enlarge will be of crucial importance after the accession of these two countries. we want to take this discussion seriously so that we can also bring about the political project of the capacity to act.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not it's good that we get this instrument. we are well placed to stand up for human rights and democracy, even against the will of autocrats and dictators, and thus also for democratic political groups in the countries concerned. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step in the right direction. and those officials who would be afraid to grant such support without the explicit mention of democratic political groups should be encouraged to do so if the concrete circumstances so require. it's not primarily about party funding. i would ask you not to restrict the discussion in the council to this subject. but in countries like belarus we cannot be impartial either, because then we would have to support the lukashenka of the world impartially.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say something about the broadcasting of our meetings. when the plenary of this house meets, as it is doing now, and we discuss various subjects, such as the follow-up to the seventh framework programme for research, it is intolerable in my view that the administration should put all other things ahead of this sitting, with proper video surveillance over the internet and then also to the media interfaces. i would be very grateful if you would also take up this subject which concerns our internal work.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. after more than a year and a half of intensive parliamentary debate, we are now close to the conclusion of the seventh framework programme for research and its specific programmes. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr jerzy buzek, for his hard work, but also all the colleagues who have contributed to the framework programme and the specific programmes. as rapporteur for the specific programme 'ideas', it is of course a particular pleasure and honour for me to see the seventh research framework programme and the specific programme 'ideas' finally bring the european research council to life. why do we need a european research council? the research council is intended to strengthen basic research in europe. it thus fills a major gap in european research funding. until now, research funding in europe has been concentrated mainly on applied research, although almost all innovative, ground-breaking developments are the result of basic research. just think of everyday things like the digital camera or the cd player, which would not have been possible without the theoretical foundations of scientists like max planck or albert einstein. the erc, the european research council, must be a success in order to bring top researchers to europe or to keep our own top european researchers here in the country. the commission has to be able to work independently, as we have repeatedly called for and have strongly supported the commissioner in his approach. this means that researchers must have a say in this european research council, they must decide which projects in the field of basic research should be supported. it is really novel that politicians say we are staying out of the decision-making process on what is eligible, but rather we are letting the research community itself or the scientists we elect to the advisory board make the decisions. i am also very proud that we have decided, or will hopefully decide tomorrow, that the sole criterion for awarding funds within the framework of the european research council should be the criterion of scientific excellence. parliament has called from the outset for the european research council not to become a miniature edition of the directorate-general for research. with your permission, mr commissioner, i do not mean to be critical of the commission, but if the research council is to be something new, it is not the politicians or the highly qualified officials of the directorate-general for research who should have the say here, but - i repeat myself, but i think it is important - the researchers. we have also set the right course here on the part of parliament. the commission will be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the european parliament on the progress of the research programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the council for the fact that in the trilogue we were also able to secure parliament's participation in the decision on the final structure of the council. it was also important to us that the research council, when it starts its work on 1 january 2007, should not become a closed shop. this means that the european research council must be open and transparent and work. we have also made some changes in parliament, for example, that the members of the scientific council are elected here on a rotation system. and of course, we also made sure that, by capping the administrative budget for the research council, the money ultimately goes where it should go, which is to the researchers and not to the administration. the budget allocated to the european research council - at least €7.5 billion for seven years - should be a good basis for starting work here. the research council has the necessary resources to become a european success model. that's exactly what we need. we need to be a beacon of light in european research. and we also need something that has nothing to do with the research council: we need to send out an appeal tomorrow that europe must also identify itself through its research community. europe is a community of peace, europe is perceived as a community of values, as a community of law, we have the european internal market and economic and monetary union. the only thing we need now - and mr busquin has really paved the way with his european research area - is to become a european knowledge community, a european research community. if the research council and the programmes and what we are voting on tomorrow in the plenary can help, then we have all done a good job together. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have finally made it, the seventh research framework programme is on its way. the european union will invest a total of eur 54 billion in research over the next seven years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank in particular all those colleagues with whom i have had the privilege of working in confidence as rapporteur for the nuclear research activities of the joint research centre in recent months. i would also like to thank you, mr potočnik. unfortunately, we have not achieved all that we set out to do. we have not, for example, managed to double research expenditure. the substantial increase in the budget by 50% compared with the sixth research framework programme which we will adopt tomorrow is a step in the right direction. we have fought hard for this increase in the negotiations with the council. it is a positive signal for our research institutes and hopefully will set the mood for a move forward. but we missed the doubling target by a mile. other economies in the world have significantly higher rates of growth in research expenditure. so we will continue to fall behind the usa and japan. china and other countries are catching up with us. the consequences of this will be painful for us and will also be felt in the areas of prosperity, the labour market and social peace. europe does not have the largest research programme in the world, but it does have one of the most intelligent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. as commissioner potočnik rightly pointed out in his introduction, the joint research centre will play a central role in facilitating many key nuclear issues. the first concerns nuclear safety. the member states have different views on the use of nuclear energy. some countries are building new nuclear power plants, others are not. some countries are exploring the new fourth generation reactors, others are not. it's her right to decide for herself. however, security is not limited to national borders, and the joint research centre must ensure that the necessary expertise is available at european level. secondly, it also concerns security surveillance. the dimension of non-proliferation of nuclear technology and weapons has gained new impetus in the light of recent developments at international level. europe must find answers to the pressing questions. i therefore welcome the fact that the seventh framework programme is further strengthening the institute for transuranic materials, which is the world leader in this field. thirdly, it concerns the preservation and transfer of knowledge in the field of nuclear technology, a subject which is very close to my heart. we need to ensure that young, excellent scientists across europe are tackling existing problems with new ideas. but we must not lose the knowledge we have already acquired and must therefore ensure that existing and newly acquired knowledge is exchanged even more within the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. parliament has done its job with tomorrow's vote, but there is still a lot of work to be done by the member states, the commission and, above all, the research community. i call on the member states to invest even more in research activities than they have done so far. they should, for example, take advantage of the opportunity to invest structural fund funds in building research and development capacity in their countries. the creation of new research structures is not a task of the seventh framework programme for research, but a task of the member states and the structural funds. the seventh framework programme for research can fortunately really focus on research excellence. i call on the commission to implement the seventh research framework programme as quickly as possible. i call on them to draw up clear, transparent, well-thought-out, targeted and fair calls for tender, to evaluate them objectively or have them evaluated and to implement them in a practical and unbureaucratic way. the approach we have found here in parliament is certainly not the worst. finally, i would like to call on the european research community, the researchers, the inventors and discoverers, to seize the opportunities offered by this research framework programme. parliament has done its job, now it is your turn. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is the world's largest exporter of goods and services. (applause from the centre)
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. for the first time, agricultural research will have its own chapter within the research funding. around €1.9 billion is available for innovation in food, agriculture and biotechnology from 2007 to 2013. the committee on agriculture and rural development expressly welcomes the explicit reference to agricultural research. agricultural research now has additional opportunities to receive european support in the context of energy and environmental research. in this way, we not only contribute to sustainable agricultural research and development, but also help farmers to implement the 2003 agrarian reform and to move towards internationally competitive production systems. innovative pilot farms in the agricultural and food industries, agricultural research institutes, ministries, chambers and associations, all should prepare now and take advantage of the european opportunities for promoting innovation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in short, to miss morgan, we would of course be glad if tony blair not only fought but paid the bill. i believe that parliament has thrown the stone in your garden. we hope you'll work with it now. the problem we will have, in addition to the research framework programme, is that we will now have to put together the cip, the research framework programme and the financial instruments. we have followed a path as a parliament for which the council had promised us additional financial aid. we've been on this path now with money from the program. it was not an easy step for us. we have taken this path because we believe it is the right one in terms of an overall strategy. we have to be very clear that we are paying for this, the funding of innovation, with money from the research programme. we also see ourselves in an obligation. parliament remains committed to supporting the risk sharing facility. i mean, we are not out now, but we will support you, but i say this very clearly because this was a big step for us. we will also have to support this topic in terms of content. in that respect, it is a great success. but then it's up to you to put it all together.
member of the commission. mr president, on behalf of the commission and my colleague mr verheugen, i would like first of all to thank mr ferreira as well as the finnish presidency. i am very happy to be able to represent my colleague on these issues since to a great extent it does affect consumer protection and safety. it is clear that this agreement would not have been possible without intensive efforts from both sides. it is very timely, coming as it does just before new year’s eve, a time when the most fireworks are used in member states. the directive will create an internal market and thus uniform and better framework conditions for pyrotechnic articles, which comprise fireworks but also airbags and seatbelt pretensioners. the directive is urgently awaited in particular by the automobile supply industry and by consumer protection organisations. it does not make sense for 27 member states to prescribe different technical regulations for pyrotechnic articles, while their citizens within a europe of open borders can easily shop for fireworks in neighbouring countries. the protection of consumers will therefore be decisively improved because pyrotechnic articles sold to consumers anywhere in the european union must in future fulfil the essential safety requirements of the directive and will be subject to conformity assessment. moreover, for campaigns which market the products in several member states, the uniform standards will contribute to a substantial reduction of the bureaucratic burden. the commission is well aware that the use of fireworks is subject to different traditions and customs in the member states. therefore we can agree to the amendment proposed by parliament that certain fireworks do not fall under the directive if they are produced by manufacturers for their own use and if their use by the manufacturer himself has been approved by the respective member state. for the same reason, it was also necessary to grant to the member states the possibility of taking national measures regarding certain categories of pyrotechnic articles. this concerns in particular fireworks in categories 2 and 3, which can pose somewhat higher risks. therefore, the use of bangers and flash bangers by the general public will remain forbidden in many member states in future. consequently, such fireworks will be excluded completely from category 1, for which the member states cannot lay down further restrictions. this exclusion is specified in essential safety requirements and will be taken up in a mandate which the commission will give to the european standardisation committee after the adoption of the directive. the commission confirmed this by making a declaration during the negotiations with the council and parliament. i am also pleased that an agreement has been achieved with the council regarding the labelling of pyrotechnic articles, where a balanced solution between high safety requirements on the one hand, and avoidance of complicated and burdensome requirements on manufacturers on the other, has been found. in conclusion i would like to point out that, once again, the negotiation process has benefited very much from the close collaboration between parliament, the council and the commission. the commission can therefore agree to all compromise amendments and i am confident that we can achieve the adoption of this directive at first reading.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his cooperation. we have achieved a great success. the directive on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market can be adopted tomorrow at first reading, and we have already reached agreement with the council. the directive harmonises 25 different explosives laws in the european union. we've cut a little more red tape. we shall go a long way towards completing the internal market for trade in fireworks, airbags and other pyrotechnic products with the directive. it is no longer necessary to produce products specific to each member state. this also saves enormous costs. the industry can now be guided by uniform requirements throughout europe. i have been particularly active in promoting a simplified procedure for professional fireworks users. the objective of this simplified procedure is to ensure that the manufacturer or importer implements its own quality assurance system for professional fireworks. however, it is regularly inspected by competent authorities. we have thus transferred more responsibility back to the companies in this area and avoided too much bureaucracy. in the field of vehicle technology - airbags and seat belt straps - we have been able to introduce special regulations. this is where high safety standards are needed, without overriding the labelling requirements for airbags already fitted to vehicles. in particular, consumers - and i would like to emphasize this - will benefit from the new directive because it will bring more security. there have been some very serious accidents involving fireworks, as safety requirements vary from one member state to another. a procedure with the same safety standards is now being introduced in all member states. we shall achieve the internal market in this area tomorrow with the vote on the pyrotechnics directive, while at the same time creating greater consumer safety.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank the commissioner for this debate, but i also thank my colleague, mrs antonyia parvanova, who made this possible in the first place by her question. commissioner, you have opened a public hearing on the mobility of patients. this is the ideal approach to answering questions such as: what are the legal gaps in a single health market which is not a true single market? what could be common standards for patients' rights in europe? what is the access to information for patients, not only about their rights but also about medicines? this information is limited in europe and is an essential feature of prevention for health. what measures, what funding opportunities and what productivity would result from a properly run health tourism for the european union? we should believe in europe as a health zone, that should be our vision! perhaps this public hearing could be the first step in the right direction.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate, which i have listened to with interest. i think that the conclusion drawn by the rapporteur, mrs lynn, is realistic and i was very pleased to hear the committee say that parliament's opinion and the commission's opinion are very close. the debate highlighted the most important principles, namely the principle of non-discrimination and active inclusion, and shed light on or followed up some issues from various sub-perspectives. as the debate has repeatedly reflected on changes to the european legal framework, i would like to note that a feasibility study will be completed this year to examine the possibilities of improving the european union's legal framework for disabled people. ladies and gentlemen, it is also appropriate to mention 2007, which is the year of equal opportunities, which i see as a very good opportunity to mobilise society as such.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs pilar del castillo vera, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, entitled 'keeping up the pace - a europe of entrepreneurship and growth' (2006/2138 (ini)) (a6-0384/2006).
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. small and mediumsized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy, as we have seen time and again. they have the largest share of the workforce in europe, but they still have problems. i would point out that in july 1994 we received the first commission communication on this subject, which addressed many problems. recommendations were made in december of that year, a second communication was issued in 1998, and in 2000 experts found that less than half of the measures had been implemented in the member states. today, we have to say that only 55% of the measures have been implemented. it is now necessary for action to follow the words in the member states. i would like to mention one important area, namely the transfer of the company. it is not being taken into account in the overall picture, either by the authorities responsible for taxation in the member states or by the entrepreneurs themselves, who must themselves work to ensure that their business is transferred to a new owner in good time. there's work to be done on all sides. we have acted as a parliament, including in the seventh framework programme for research in small and medium-sized enterprises. enough of the talk, let's see action.
i can understand that some speeches here in the chamber will be welcomed or rejected by the visitors, but i would ask you very sincerely to refrain from expressing any opinion from the gallery.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to say two things. first of all: while we are all very sympathetic to criticism of the situation - and the commission is not shy about criticizing the situation - we should not overlook one thing: the economic data for europe are upwards. this year's growth is far above expectations, we have a really noticeable fall in unemployment, we have an improvement in productivity in european companies, and we feel very clearly that the priorities of the member states are changing towards improving the framework conditions for entrepreneurship. secondly, there are in fact fewer people in europe, compared with the united states of america, who are prepared to start or run their own businesses or, as one member of parliament has just said, to take the risk of creating jobs for others - including with their own money. there are very interesting reasons for this. there are cultural backgrounds to this. this is why the commission has proposed very strongly to link entrepreneurship and education. the possibility of being introduced to entrepreneurship must be provided in schools and universities. in the countries where this is done, we see remarkable success. where it is not happening, there are simply not enough businesses. and a company that doesn't exist - it's that simple - can't create jobs either. and right now, we're experiencing a very interesting thing, which is that learning by doing is still the best. i have started the enterprise experience project, which was mentioned in the debate, with the aim of having all the senior officials in my own departments work for at least one week in a small or medium-sized enterprise. the first 50 have now returned, and the result is fascinating. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of smes in the community. but on the other hand, the companies that have taken our officials in to work for them say they have learned a lot from it and have a much better understanding of what is possible at european level and what is not. i would really like to encourage member states to take similar initiatives. the development of enterprises is so rapid that it is essential that those who create the conditions for the enterprises really know exactly what is happening there and what the consequences of their actions are.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. the written declaration (article 142)
mr president, with regard to amendment 2 by my group, i should like to tell you that the van orden report brings this parliament away from the legal basis of the accession protocol. wir haben in dem beitrittsprotokoll festgelegt, dass das atomkraftwerk kosloduj abgeschaltet wird. es gibt keine korrekturen dieser auffassung in bezug auf die sicherheit durch den rat oder durch euratom, so wie das von der ppe-fraktion behauptet wird. ich fordere deshalb die kolleginnen und kollegen auf, unserem änderungsantrag zuzustimmen, damit wir nicht gegen das beitrittsprotokoll verstoßen.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a problem, after what mr busquin said. the commission yesterday delivered a clear opinion to which mr casini and mr prodi referred. that is now being questioned by mr busquin. mr prodi and mr casini have indicated that they are withdrawing their amendments. before this vote takes place, we very much need confirmation once again. i would therefore ask that we give mr potočnik the floor again and that he repeats his statement from yesterday. (protest) i have to go. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have different views here, and we must be able to vote in a way that makes clear to everyone what we are referring to.
in writing. i reject the report on bulgaria. it has nothing to do with the fact that i do not see this country as belonging to the european community or that i do not welcome the new colleagues. the point is that in my view the report contains serious shortcomings, such as the question of nuclear energy in bulgaria or the weak calls on the commission to examine safeguard clauses carefully and, if necessary, to apply them in good time.
in writing. i am firmly convinced that bulgaria and romania are part of europe and as such should become full members of the eu. i think, however, that the time for the coming turn of the year is premature, since both countries still have shortcomings in many areas in the application and implementation of european standards. in view of the repeatedly noted shortcomings of both countries in meeting the accession criteria, in particular in terms of the fight against corruption and the functioning of the rule of law, i consider it unacceptable that the safeguard clauses provided for in the economic, internal market and justice and home affairs fields are not automatically applied as from 1 january 2007. for these reasons i could not agree to the reports in today's vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very disappointed that parliament has failed to send a clear signal today that europe is a community of values and that it cannot accept the breeding, processing and disposal of human life embryos . i hope, however, that the commission's statement has some credibility. i find it really shameful that the commission's statement is already being called into question today or given a direction of interpretation which actually raises the question: if what mr busquin says is true, why did the commission make a statement at all? the commission has made a statement, and many member states have insisted on it, to make it quite clear that member states, directly or indirectly, such as the federal republic of germany, should not be required to co-finance research which is clearly punishable in germany. that was the very purpose of this declaration. i hope that the next council meeting will make this point very clearly again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. so i think today was not a dark day, but one that we can clearly see once again: the commission's statement can only be understood as meaning that not only the use but also the production of embryos - and in particular the destruction associated with the production of those embryos - is not supported by european funds.
in writing. we welcome the adoption of fp7. on the other hand, we underline that the compromise found on funding of research using human embryos and human embryonic stem-cells does not reflect the position of the epp-ed group as fixed before the first reading in june. in a vote after discussion on many occasions, a big majority of the group supported amendment 319 by niebler and others, who sought to fix a deadline. we regret that the european parliament did not support this amendment, especially because only 19 more votes were needed for the necessary majority. the epp-ed accepts that, according to the rules of procedure of the european parliament, amendment 319 cannot be tabled for the second reading. this does not change the position of the epp-ed group in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. they say this is unprecedented. i was expecting that. i checked it out. 75% of all question hours were cut or postponed this year. this is the reality. yet we are told again and again that it is an exception.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. my group will probably agree with 99.9% of this compromise, which was drawn up by guido sacconi. if anyone could have walked the difficult road between scilla and charybdis, it was probably guido sacconi, who was always ready to talk, who always had his ideas in mind and yet tried to find a compromise that would bring on board large sections of the house and the european public. what are we talking about? we're talking about learning something about chemicals that we don't know today. we talk about protecting nature, but above all the health of the people who use chemicals as consumers or as workers. that's what compromise is for. but of course a compromise is always a compromise. if no one is really happy at the end, then that's probably the best proof that it's a good compromise. guido sacconi is certainly not one hundred percent happy, and neither are we all. and yet i am convinced that it is the best we could achieve. it's better than a lot of other proposals i've seen. that is why i shall be voting in favour on wednesday and i shall be voting in favour with conviction. but what do we have on paper? many say it is a monster. it's not a monster, of course. one monster was the forty laws we had before that. it is a compact package that is not easy for everyone to read. but the one who makes the effort can read it. it's also good that we said, in five years, we'll review the scope. what will happen to medical devices or other individual products? do they have to be included in the scope or should we take them out? that's reasonable. it is also true that we have made improvements in data protection. data must be protected with all the requirements for transparency and information . we also need to ensure that research interests are actively supported and that people are still able to do research at universities and other institutions. it's all good. what's not good? it is not good how the medium-sized enterprises will do. mr verheugen said so, and i am grateful to him for that. the people who could pay the price for our ambitious legislation are, if we are not careful, small and mediumsized enterprises. she's the one to think about. i ask you, mr dimas and mr verheugen, to change the definition of small and mediumsized enterprises. it's long overdue and it'll help some of them. but i also ask you to set up a switchboard that helps, that translates and actually makes sure that small businesses are helped, because those who are affected don't know what transition period applies to them, when they have to register something and when something applies to them. in conclusion, let me say that if we are serious - and i say this to mrs oomen ruiyten and to all the others - we will make sure that we get a good and powerful agency, wenn, quickly. that means money. you, dear council presidency, take matters into your own hands. tell the colleagues we need money for this. we in parliament must do the same. i am sorry, mr ouzký, but i usually stay until the end of a debate after i have spoken. but i'm going to the house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. this compromise bears the signature of parliament. for the second time - the first time was with the services directive - it is parliament which is making a decisive contribution to a solution in an important piece of legislation. it is good that the solution has been found here in parliament. it is a compromise, however, there was no other solution at the moment, and mediation would certainly have been very problematic. it is therefore right to agree to this compromise, even if i do so with considerable reservations. with this reach regulation, we are making a revolutionary advance in our knowledge of the approximately 30 000 substances that the industry deals with. this is a dramatic step forward for the environment and health in europe. you, mr president-in-office, have made this quite rightly. but why, i ask you, have you not said a word about the fact that we are not only putting the responsibility for the substances on the companies, but also putting a considerable cost on them? that we are introducing new bureaucratic procedures in europe, and doing exactly the opposite of what we are saying in our sunday speeches about cutting red tape and achieving the lisbon objectives. i think it is fair to say that we want this environmental progress, but we are also imposing a considerable cost on business and industry. whether it can withstand the competition, as mr verheugen and i hope, remains to be seen. the fact is that there are costs in the room that could have been lower. the finnish presidency has refused to grant testing facilities for the low-voltage range. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. it would have been better to have resorted to the parliament's solution, which we found together with mr sacconi - whom i thank for his work - at the first reading. what's next? the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are applied in the member states. i would ask the two commissioners, mr dimas and mr verheugen, who know better than anyone else that the reach system tends to disadvantage small and mediumsized enterprises, to work with them as partners in implementing it and in a spirit of partnership, and to ensure that the european economy can withstand this burden.
mr president, mr guido sacconi, rapporteur, and commissioners verheugen and dimas, i would like to thank you for your work. i am grateful to you, mr president-in-office, for allowing us to conclude that we have finally reached a compromise. what have i been listening to all week ? florence is the extension of the chancellery, he wants to impose the will of the german chemical industry and he has even interrupted the negotiations. it's all nonsense! the aim was to put the necessary pressure on the boiler to bring the different wings of this house closer together, namely the rightly very committed health and environmental politicians and the economic politicians. that was the problem that wasn't so easy to solve. i think we've come to a reasonable compromise here. everyone is scolding and everyone is dissatisfied and in the end this is the result of this compromise. if you do not want to do that, you should not participate in a parliamentary process. it is not as simple as some of my other esteemed green colleagues believe. there are different wings in this world, and that is why we have always had controversial debates about the white paper over the last three years until now. i have not seen this in any other report - i have been here for 18 years now - as i have seen it in reach. we have even fought some quite senseless proxy wars, and the climate has not always been free of strain. but one thing was always clear: we had a real pillar, and that was that reach was never questioned by the industry. i really enjoyed it. i would remind the two commissioners that they have announced that they will withdraw 40 old directives and regulations which are now obsolete. i'll look into it. that is your challenge, alongside the implementing regulations, and that is what you really need to do, so that we can have an advantage and we can thin out the jungle in this area. the three-stage process of registration, evaluation and authorisation is exactly right. industry will have to show that it sees the release and release of data to the agency not as an end in itself but as part of modern economic policy. i am convinced that where there are better alternatives, in the future, when it makes economic sense, there will also be ecological alternatives. that is what we want to promote. i think and hope that this will not hurt the industry but, on the contrary, will encourage it. it was always important that we focus on manufacturer responsibility. this is not an end in itself, but something which the industry must do in the future. the question of imports is open, and i do not think it has been handled well enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we need a political debate about how much of their know-how companies have to give away. of course we need consumer protection, but we also need protection for our businesses, where we find jobs from monday to friday!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the image of the mountain has been used many times today. all i can say is that the mountain gave birth to a mouse. the compromise we are now discussing is a lazy compromise, and it is not to be taken lightly. parliament is clearly in a state of disarray when we look at the starting position of the first reading. the compromise is a christmas present to the european chemical industry, and the german chemical lobby's handwriting is clearly visible. the european citizens are not being told why the european parliament has sacrificed compulsory substitution. reach will not provide incentives to replace chemicals of very high concern with safe alternatives. the heart of substitution has been sacrificed to the interests of the chemical industry. this is a shame, because in future too, man, nature and animals will be subjected to a major test. it is shameful, above all, because chemicals do not need to be replaced even when viable alternatives exist. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is a misconception, a travesty, because the industrial poisons of europe are appearing where they should not be, namely in the blood of babies and adults, in breast milk, in drinking water and in the fatty tissue of polar bears. it is also wrong to say - as my predecessor has just said - that research is being carried out on nerve-damaging substances, such as those we find in this alarming brain study. there will be no mandatory test for this. so these substances will continue to be on the market even though there are viable alternatives, and that's the really shameful thing. this compromise is also a mockery of transparency. it's not just a coincidence that the members of the chemical agency can hide their names and financial interests. no, it also means the disempowerment of consumers. because they'll continue to grope in the dark. not only are they exposed to the risks, they are powerless to defend themselves against them. for very few chemicals, consumers have the opportunity to find out the information in a lengthy, individual process. in the age of the internet, it has not been possible to provide consumers with access to this information via the internet; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. so reach is a fraudulent package. parliament has leaped like a tiger and landed like a bedspread.
if you remember when we received the white paper from mrs wallström and mr liikanen on 13 february 2001, you can imagine how far we have come today. i would like to thank the two commissioners very much for putting more emphasis on the competitiveness of our own economy and our jobs in their time and responsibility. i have always assumed that the president of the council is bound by the common position as much as possible. if you listen to the speeches here - and mr sacconi has done a brilliant job - you might get the impression that the communist group and the greens have a majority. i'll have a sandwich. they do not have a hundred votes in the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is important, mr verheugen and mr dimas, that the implementation of this regulation does not become a huge bureaucratic monster, but that it really becomes an example of better legislation, and that is why it is essential that it is easy to use. mrs roth-behrendt has pointed this out. if we ask ourselves today what has not been achieved, then for me the most difficult issue is the treatment of substances in imported products. no one has a solution to this question. what is the use of extremely strict legislation when the substances in imported products are coming into the european union and we have a relocation of a plant away from the european union? the way the compromise was made, he's responsible. we would not have needed all the tests for smes, and it would have been useful to simplify the system by exposure and use categories. it is regrettable that this has not happened. we shall nevertheless accept this compromise and i hope that this european chemical legislation will become a benchmark for chemical legislation worldwide. that's our job. we have then secured our jobs and improved, rather than weakened, the competitiveness of our industry.
mr president, commissioners and members of the council, ladies and gentlemen! we are in the middle of a long debate on the biggest piece of legislation this parliament has ever had to tackle. a compliment to guido sacconi for his work. the fact that, despite the extensive text, a very broad interpretation is still possible has been demonstrated by my predecessors. parliament has clearly given its signature to this proposal. the world of chemicals and the belief in safety has changed considerably since seveso and bhopal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council and the commission must now work to bring about a functioning and effective agency as soon as possible. it will cost money and involve bureaucracy. the agency is the key to a functioning reach. recruiting sufficient numbers of qualified professionals is a challenge. the agency must work quickly, accurately and without errors in order to improve the reputation of reach as a model for other states and communities of states. the question of intellectual property is settled sufficiently. we will have to watch carefully whether we can live with the current form of substitution in the long term. we must also be careful to see how the legislative procedure affects small and mediumsized enterprises. only if all the points are balanced will reach live up to our claim to the lisbon process. reach must not become a box that is not filled even after two or three decades. this is the measure by which europe will have to measure itself. in the overlapping areas, i would call for medical devices to be excluded, since this regulatory framework is coherent and sufficiently regulated, and otherwise there will be incalculable delays in the authorization of medical devices. we will examine in due course whether reach is sufficient in its present function, whether the rules are too strict or too lax. we must not abandon further development through comitology, but must monitor its application regularly and critically.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked on this difficult dossier, and above all mrs fourtou, who has fought through this complex set of rules with great success. the rapporteur for our group, christopher heaton-harris, is unfortunately unable to be present today, so as the coordinator responsible for this dossier i am able to speak today on behalf of my group and also on his behalf. the european customs code is a very important project which will remove existing barriers in the european internal market and is of global importance, particularly in terms of piracy of products and intellectual property. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. i think that this report which we have on the modernised customs code will help to simplify existing customs procedures and that we will thereby also help to improve the competitiveness of european companies. a critical point - and i want to concentrate on a few points - was article 14 on the licensed economic operator from the outset. mrs fourtou has spoken about this. i think that we in the committee on the internal market have found a good compromise which gives these people more freedom in the exercise of their activities. the epp group will therefore withdraw its amendment no 57 and support the compromise in the committee on the internal market. we are making it clear with this compromise that we want more freedom for our companies, and we should also communicate to the outside world that the modernised customs code is a regulation that we have drawn up for our companies and in their favour. the european customs code will not be a barrier to greater competitiveness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the article allows member states to introduce further simplifications beyond the customs code in the framework of bilateral or multinational agreements. the old customs code already provides for this possibility of closer cooperation. so it's already in use in practice. it would be detrimental to our companies if we were to abolish the regulation now, and i think we have a good transfer to our colleague audy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's efforts to reduce the high number of accidents and injuries and to significantly improve the situation in the member states are certainly welcome, and the rapporteur has said a lot about this. but do we really think that these measures will reduce the number of accidents in the countries? i think the opposite will be true. we are using these measures to commit funds in the countries which can be used for these measures. i would like to make a comment on the costs that are always listed. of course, the number of injured worries me. today i read at reach how much we're going to reduce health care costs if we make improvements here. the figures are correct, of course, but we're not going to reach them. what we are achieving with this document is bureaucracy, even though we all swear that we want to reject and reduce bureaucracy in the european union. the countries of the european union are well placed to deal with this problem. they collect their statistics, they take the necessary measures, they know the situation on the ground much better than we do in brussels or strasbourg. if we imagine that we can tell the member states something new by our statistics, we are going the wrong way. this is the wrong way. it is not possible, for example, to influence the behaviour of drivers in sicily or finland from brussels. the only way to do this is to implement measures on the ground, and that is why such measures should be regulated only in the context of subsidiarity and only there. i would like to exaggerate a little: if you say today that many people fall off ladders and injure themselves when they hang curtains, then you can find in some states that because there are traditionally no curtains there are no accidents. who wants to compare? it's the same with a lot of other things. so i think we are going the wrong way here, we should rethink these measures and focus on bilateral measures that really lead to a reduction in accidents. but this proposal will not achieve that.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the present commission proposal does not alter the existing rules on the eradication, control and monitoring of animal diseases and zoonoses. the aim is to update some of the accompanying instruments of the community's animal health policy. we welcome this, and particularly the announcement by the commission that it will shortly be presenting a detailed report on european animal health policy. this would be the right time or opportunity to discuss wider changes to the current rules and, if necessary, to set up a new legal framework. we agree with the commission's explanation of the aims of the proposal and with the rapporteur. we support the proposed amendments to council decision 90/424/eec and the rapporteur's critical remarks and observations both on the financing of the system of monitoring animal transport and on the system of financing of unforeseen diseases, outbreaks of disease and diseases associated with lasting damage. the fight against animal diseases and diseases always requires a high level of financial resources. providing these at short notice is often the problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we hope in secret that the proposed amendments will improve the implementation of the co-financed programmes in the framework of freedom from animal diseases.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the committee on agriculture and rural development for its work on this dossier, and in particular the rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf, who unfortunately was unable to be here today. the commission's discussions reflect the high interest in the labelling of compound feedingstuffs. the commission proposal is the logical consequence of the judgment of the european court of justice last december. the proposal simply seeks to align our legislation, namely directive 2002/2, so that it reflects this judgment of the court of justice. i fully understand and acknowledge the need for political debate on possible improvements to the current labelling system for compound feedingstuffs. i am particularly grateful for the wide agreement on the part of the european parliament that today's proposal is not the appropriate framework for this debate. the commission's rolling simplification programme for 2007 includes the modernisation and simplification of feed legislation. this is the aim pursued by the commission in the context of the impact assessment process which will take account of interesting new ideas on the labelling of compound feedingstuffs which have been discussed in parliament over the past few weeks. as i recently informed the committee on agriculture and rural development, the impact assessment will pave the way for the legislative proposal to modernise our legislation on the labelling of feedingstuffs, which is expected to be ready in the second half of next year. this will be an opportunity to fully consider how best to modernise all aspects of legislation on the labelling of feed.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not my group supports the rapporteur's call for clarity and transparency in the trade in compound feedingstuffs. we also acknowledge that he has made great efforts to find a compromise solution. the discussions in the committee on agriculture showed that there was a great diversity of opinion, particularly on the open declaration of compound feedingstuffs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this was not necessarily due solely to the contentious nature of the subject but was mainly due to the unusually complex legal procedure. i would remind you that we are discussing a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending a 2002 directive amending the 1979 directive on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs following a judgment of the court of justice of the european union of 6 december 2005. the co-decision procedure was used, although the committee on agriculture normally has only consultative powers. after much back and forth, a line was found in preliminary discussions with the council which my socialist group can support. the european commission has promised us that it will present a revision of the whole feed declaration next year. i hope that this will then really bring clarity and transparency to farmers, consumers, industry and not least to us politicians.
i'm not going to tell you. we are discussing today, following a judgment of the ecj, the placing on the market of compound feedingstuffs or the declaration of compound feedingstuffs as a correction to directive 2002/2. the directive does not concern health protection; in that respect the judgment of the court of justice should be accepted. however, we had a wide-ranging discussion in the committee on agriculture and rural development and subsequent to its proposals, which required rules on the labelling of feed ingredients by weight and on the indication of percentages. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular. i would also like to support the ppe-de group's proposals and in particular the request, as we have stated in my adopted amendment, that no further changes should be made to the existing act now in order to act quickly. the commission is expected to present proposals for a comprehensive reorganisation of feed law by mid-2007, as announced. this is the time to discuss proposals which take into account both consumer concerns and farmers' interests in accurate and detailed information on the ingredients of feedingstuffs, as well as the industry's interest in adequate protection of trade secrets. it could also be a time to reconsider possible future uses of high-quality animal protein or protein components, which were banned after bse and are not accepted at the moment. we all know that only the highest quality and optimum composition of feed can guarantee animal welfare, optimum performance and high quality of food.
president of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. mr president, the libe committee has already submitted to the plenary the reports by mrs kudrycka, mrs segelström and mr la russa on the legislative proposals for which the commission is requesting the application of the urgency procedure. we consider that the compromise reached with the other institutions is politically acceptable and we therefore express our support for the adoption of the compromise by the plenary during this part-session.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, i would like to say on behalf of the ppe-de group that we are in full agreement with this and i think that the other groups can also give their agreement.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament, the council and the commission have been fighting for a long time over the future instrument for financing development. in the end, a largely viable compromise was found. the new instrument is designed to help us further achieve the millennium development goals. this is a very important objective which we have repeatedly advocated here in the european parliament and in the committee. i think this is a very important sign from the european union, in view of the recent un assessment of its effectiveness, especially in the fight against poverty. it is clear that the efforts of the rapporteur, mr mitchell, and of the entire committee on development to amend the original regulation have paid off. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sorry to say that i am very critical of the rapporteur. mr mitchell, you are not only supporting efforts to achieve the text of the compromise text as you have announced, but you are also making the proposals yourself. i am very much in favour of the amendments, but i am also against the amendments which are very difficult and outrageous in several respects: they call for nothing less than the abolition of women's reproductive health as an objective of development cooperation. with your requests to delete recital 18 and parts of articles 5 and 12, you are not only deleting the wording you do not like, as you have announced, but you are also deleting other objectives: the right to a risk-free motherhood and to universal access to comprehensive, safe and reliable sexual and reproductive health care and services, the reduction of infant mortality and the fight against poverty-related diseases, in particular hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria. this is not just a compromise that you have overlooked. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that is a scandal and i think it would be a real shame if parliament were to accept your amendments tomorrow. my group will reject it with all its convictions. i think it is very useful to bring together the eu's very confusing funding possibilities into a single instrument. the result, however, must not be that important issues are simply dropped. since you are now calling the compromise into question, i can already tell you that my group will in future be calling into question one aspect of the new financial instrument in particular: the financing of the fight against illegal migration and increased border controls from development cooperation funds. what has been smuggled into this compromise under article 16 (2) (c) perverts almost the whole positive approach to the thematic line of migration and asylum policy as formulated in the other passages of article 16. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the insistence of the council and the commission, a major aspect of development finance will be added in the future, namely trade. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external trade policy is a very good one, and i hope that the council will take it up again in the near future. if you are only trying to help the countries of the south to sell the raw materials needed in europe without any disruption to europe, we will question and criticize that. it is not the sale of raw materials but fair trade in manufactured goods that offers the societies of the south a chance to overcome poverty. two weeks ago, the president of the european investment bank, philippe maystadt, warned in the financial times that the political conditions europe is imposing on financing are too high in competition with chinese or russian companies for africa's raw materials. where does this argument lead? we must not forget that the european community is a great power, and that it is a great power. i find it very remarkable and extremely welcome that the current financial instrument and our compromise stipulate that criteria such as 'decent work', on which the european parliament will also be making a report shortly, must be respected. i think this is also a very important signal in terms of demands that the european union should not make such high political demands in the future to fight poverty and promote development, because i think this is the wrong way. instead, let us use the new instrument and the lessons learned about the importance of coherence and policy to make better deals. the aim is to convert bauxite into aluminium on site, but in an environmentally sound way and with decent working conditions and wages. the new instrument is useful if it creates the conditions in the fields of education and health without which productive economic activity in the service of local society is no longer possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this joint debate is good because in future we will have a common legal basis with differences depending on whether we refer to the developing countries or the richer, industrialized countries. that is why it is good that we are having this debate together. the rapporteur, david martin, has rightly pointed out that we must strive for greater logic and greater systematicity when it comes to representing the interests of the european union in our external cooperation. he has argued - and i am glad the commission has respected this - that we need further differentiation, and that we need to take account of the specific interests of countries, that we need stronger evaluation as well as early review. i would like to add a few points which mr papastamkos has already raised. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what do i mean? we already have very close relations with certain countries, we have free trade agreements and partnership agreements, but the logic of our cooperation through our financial instruments does not always follow our political logic. we should therefore also try to achieve a strategic intensification of financial cooperation. it is not possible to have free trade agreements, such as those with mexico or chile, to envisage further free trade agreements in the future and then not to follow any logic in cooperation. it is also not logical not to give more support to the least developed countries than to those which are already in the process of recovery, which are called emerging countries in english. we need a stronger specification like this in the future. it is also important that we take parliament into account not only in the financial instruments under the codecision procedure, but also that parliament is involved and must give its consent when we enter into dialogue to conclude bilateral agreements. otherwise, parliament's involvement will only lead to a rift between the commission and the member states, and there will be no full and democratic support. i would urge the commissioner to make it a point in her discussions with the commission and the member states that parliament must give its consent in all areas so that our system of values, which we always talk about, is not only safeguarded when we talk about other countries, but that we also maintain it when we make policy ourselves.
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to thank you once again for this closing debate. we had long negotiations, which at times were not easy, many formal and informal trialogues. as always, every party has to make its points clear, and sometimes that takes time. however, the important thing is that we get a good result in the end. i have listened very carefully to all of you and i think we can all live with this result and we can look to the future. there is now a new set of financial instruments and we want to ensure better external action and better visibility in favour of development, stability and human rights. let me now say a few words about some specific items mentioned in the debate. on the question of sexual and reproductive health and rights, i am aware that the issue is of a very sensitive nature wherever it has come up in all the different fora. it becomes an even more complex matter in a union of 25 member states, all of which have their own different traditions. for this reason, the respective provisions in the development cooperation instrument represent a finely balanced compromise, which i admit was difficult to achieve and which should not be reopened. these provisions are largely taken from the old regulation on aid for actions on sexual and reproductive health and rights in developing countries. hence, these provisions already reflect a certain consensus as the old regulation was approved by parliament in codecision. transferring the issue from the development cooperation instrument to a separate regulation would not facilitate the problem, but rather protract the discussions on this very sensitive matter. such a solution would also go against the aim of simplification, which was the guiding principle for the reform of the external action instruments. the respective provisions on the development cooperation instrument reflect a balanced compromise, which most likely would not be improved by regulating the issue of sexual and reproductive health in a separate regulation. i should also like to say a word on the question of the main thrust. the commission reaffirms that eradication of poverty and the pursuit of the millennium development goals are at the core of the primary objective of its development assistance. the commission commits itself to prioritising basic health and education and social cohesion as a whole in its programming and implementing role for country programmes. moreover, the commission will endeavour to ensure that a benchmark of 20% of its allocated assistance under country programmes covered by the dci will be dedicated by the year of review, 2009, to basic and secondary education and basic health care. but i also have to say that the dci also contains a thematic programme on migration and asylum, which is the successor of the old aeneas programme. the contents of this thematic programme are the expression again of a finely balanced compromise, in particular with the member states in the council. in the light of the challenges which the european union is currently facing in the field of migration, the thematic programmes will respond to those needs. indeed the root causes of migration will primarily be addressed through our geographic cooperation – i have just spoken about that. those who have prospects will not migrate, but there are many others. it is combating illegal migration on the one hand, and working for legal migration on the other. we must not close our eyes to the fact that migration, and especially illegal migration, is one of the big challenges of our time that we have to face. i look forward to putting those instruments to work, together with you. we have to look to the future. one of the most challenging questions throughout the negotiations on these new co-decided instruments was the role of parliament in the strategic planning, as expressed in the strategy papers. based on the declarations attached for the interinstitutional agreement on the new financial perspectives, the modalities of a democratic scrutiny dialogue have been fleshed out in an exchange of letters with the committees concerned. the first pilot country strategy paper will soon arrive in parliament. we now look forward to the implementation of that democratic scrutiny dialogue. regarding the ici, i should like to say to mr martin and mrs mann that, as you know, the legal base is article 181(a) of the ec treaty, which foresees the consultation procedure with parliament in the legislative process. but of course the commission is always ready to exchange views with parliament on aspects of cooperation with industrialised countries too. we will certainly take the utmost account of any resolution that parliament might adopt in that respect. if, in the developing countries, we have not yet always seen the results we wanted to see, that is also because sometimes good governance has not yet been achieved. that is another very important factor i should like to highlight because we are providing a lot of funding and we try to do our best. unfortunately, however, sometimes good governance is not there. in conclusion, negotiations are always complicated, but what we wanted to have was simplification. it is so important to simplify in order to achieve visibility and efficiency. reducing more than 40 different legislative instruments to seven policy-driven instruments has been difficult but i believe that in the end it has been a rewarding challenge. three new instruments are already in force: pre-accession, the neighbourhood policy instrument and the stability instrument. four instruments will be adopted shortly: the dci and the ici, the nuclear safety and the human rights and democracy instruments. everyone who has spoken today of the positive results of our negotiations on the dci and the ici has also seen that. what this whole exercise has shown is that if we, the three institutions – the commission, the council and parliament – work together in a constructive manner, in the end we can produce results of quality. again, i look forward to working together with you to secure a really good, efficient and visible implementation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today.
the next item is the report by mrs christa klaß, on behalf of the delegation of the european parliament and the council, to the conciliation committee on the protection of groundwater against pollution and degradation (com (2004) 0391 - c6-0080/2004 - 2004/0127 - cod)) (a6-0188/2005).
the rapporteur. the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union. the environment is a vast field. air and water are equally essential for all human life on our continent. groundwater is one of the most important and sensitive resources we have as humans. groundwater regenerates very slowly, both in terms of quantity and pollution. the cleaning of polluted groundwater is only possible with enormous costs and technical effort, if at all. the air we breathe is showing that all the measures we have taken over the last decade are not enough to prevent climate change with all its negative consequences. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the water resources are properly managed. the protection of the groundwater ecosystem is therefore of the utmost importance. i have fought for this central cause as rapporteur and i thank all those who have supported me in this. it is you, ladies and gentlemen, who are the first to be affected. without the convincing votes of the european parliament at first and second reading, the result we have achieved in the conciliation negotiations with the council, with the strong support of the european commission, would not have been possible. i thank the council and the representatives of the european commission for their constructive cooperation and support in the search for compromises. what have we achieved? the protection of the groundwater ecosystem and the precautionary approach were explicitly included. groundwater conservation means that even clean water in good or very good condition must be protected. it means not taking action until the bad state defined by the limit and threshold values has already been reached. the reversal and deterioration are regulated so that not only the transition from good to bad condition, but also continuously increasing values within a condition class are taken into account and action must be taken. the threshold values for the substances listed in annex 2, part b, to be set by the member states, shall take account of human and ecotoxicological findings as well as hydrological conditions. so the background values to better reflect the different conditions in the different regions of europe. the introduction of a review clause was particularly important in order to verify the effectiveness of these measures. the note on the nitrates directive in annex 1 has been deleted and the reference to the nitrates directive in annex 4 has been added. the nitrates directive and the water framework directive, in conjunction with this groundwater subsidiary directive, set similarly stringent conservation and restoration objectives. the new article 11 on evaluation is important in this context. the european commission reports must include an assessment of this directive in relation to other relevant environmental legislation, including the nitrates directive, including compliance with these provisions, for groundwater. the text of the directive is now clearer and clearer. terms such as background concentration, starting point or significant upward trend have been defined. vague and interpretable claims have been deleted. the member states are given greater flexibility in implementing the scheme, and contractual arrangements are possible, for example between farmers, water treatment companies and local authorities. the european parliament will have greater scope for participation in future adaptations of the directive. the amendments to the lists of pollutants, indicators and limit values are subject to parliament's objection under the new comitology procedure and the removal of individual substances from the list can only be done in a codecision procedure with parliament. losses of income in agriculture caused by management obligations to protect groundwater can be compensated under the rural development regulation. we looked for compromises and we found them. i firmly believe that we can bear all this and defend it. i ask the translation services to correct any inconsistencies in the linguistic version. the new groundwater directive will make an effective contribution to the protection of our groundwater, and i therefore ask all members to support the outcome of the conciliation committee!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a great success that the groundwater directive has not been watered down. the proposals now being made are indeed a step in the right direction, although we would of course have expected more. we know that 80% of drinking water comes from groundwater, but 40% of europe's groundwater is already polluted. in germany, the contamination of the rivers by perfluorinated surfactants in north rhine-westphalia and bavaria has made it abundantly clear how dangerous our number one foodstuff is. it is a success that the groundwater directive now contains the legally binding requirement to prevent pollutants from entering groundwater. this is hopefully a starting point for strict and efficient measures for sustainable water protection. the european parliament has, fortunately, drawn up the 'shopping list' of exceptions from the second reading. the lazy excuses for agriculture with nitrate limits are fortunately off the table. farmers must also comply with the unambitious limit of 50 micrograms per litre. in germany, nitrates linked to cancer have been found in groundwater at levels up to seven times the limit. this is a very worrying situation. to effectively protect our most precious resource, we would actually need a limit of less than 25 micrograms per liter. nitrate pollution remains the biggest and most costly problem for european water protection. i therefore consider it a serious omission that neither the european parliament nor the council wanted to make a move towards nitrate control in order to set more ambitious targets. but it is a great success that it has now been confirmed and recorded that the groundwater itself must be protected. we still know too little about the properties of our ecosystem. preventive groundwater protection is ten times cheaper than follow-up measures, which are often impossible. the groundwater directive to be adopted must be the starting point for further environmental protection measures. as rapporteur for the environment committee, i will pay particular attention to the high levels of pesticides in groundwater in the forthcoming legislative procedure on pesticides, because this too will be an important step towards greater protection of groundwater.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today. (the sitting was suspended at 11 a.m. and resumed at 11.30 a.m.)
president of the commission. mr president, today you are asked to give your opinion on the appointment of the two commissioners that have been nominated by bulgaria and romania, mrs meglena kuneva and mr leonard orban. it is the first time that an accession treaty explicitly makes provision for consultation of the european parliament on the appointment of commissioners from new member states. i very much welcome this important role given to your institution as it increases both the democratic rights of parliament and the commission’s accountability. i stand here before you today to ask for your approval of our two new colleagues. i do this because i sincerely believe that they both fulfil the highest standards. the approval by the european parliament of the appointment of the two commissioners-designate will allow the council to formally appoint them. mrs kuneva and mr orban will thus become full members of the commission as of 1 january 2007. as commission president i am particularly happy and proud that mrs kuneva and mr orban – two remarkable personalities – will join my team. both have worked incredibly hard to help their countries to successfully complete their final preparations for accession. with their experience and their european conviction, both will bring a valuable contribution to the collegial work of the commission on moving europe forward, including the institutional settlement necessary to ensure a more democratic, transparent and efficient europe. in the course of the last weeks many of you had the opportunity to get to know the two commissioners-designate, be it in a bilateral context or through the hearings. mrs kuneva and mr orban have successfully passed in the relevant parliamentary committees. it is my firm belief that both candidates in the course of the hearings proved their personal integrity and independence, their general competence and professional experience, as well as their deep and genuine european commitment. the promotion of linguistic and cultural diversity in the european union touches the very substance of our european values and identity and is the prerequisite for communicating europe and multicultural dialogue. i am sure that mr orban is the right person to do this job. the protection of consumer rights is central to the interests of each and every one of our citizens. i am sure that mrs kuneva is the best person to do this. 1 january 2007 will be a truly historic moment. the accession of bulgaria and romania will complete the fifth enlargement of the european union. enlargement has not only contributed to peace, prosperity and stability throughout europe but has also made all of us richer socially, economically, and culturally. with bulgaria and romania becoming members of the european union, we will see the fulfilment of the ambitions and hopes of so many people who have fought for freedom in europe for so long. the new member states will now be firmly anchored in the community of european values which inform and permeate the public purpose of the european union. their rightful place at the heart of this community will give them new confidence and new dynamism which i am sure will generate benefits for the whole of our union. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not to be honest, i'm a little surprised i'm here to speak. but life is always full of surprises. i was pleased to hear what the president of the commission said. the hearings took place and the results were such that both mrs kuneva and mr orban were approved by the relevant committees. it is an honour and a pleasure to say yes to these two commissioners. we in the epp-ed group will endeavour to work very well with both. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the right to consult commissioners is an important right of the european parliament, which takes it seriously. we note that the commission also takes this right of the european parliament seriously. that is why mr vosgenian, the first romanian applicant, did not even make it to the hearing, because he would not have survived it. the fact that you, mr president of the commission, have drawn the consequences and taken action to get another candidate was a right step and it shows that the democratic structures in europe work when the institutions take their tasks seriously. this hearing procedure is not a formality but a genuine examination procedure. the two candidates, mrs kuneva and mr orban, have passed this examination procedure well, in the view of the socialist group. we believe that they have risen to the challenge. that is why we shall vote in favour of the nomination of these two candidates. however, the letter you wrote, mr barroso, in reply to the questions raised, does not clarify the portfolio which the president of the commission has given to mr orban. this shows that the search for the portfolio of a commission of 27 members allows only one interpretation: this commission is set up on the basis of the treaty of nice. the treaty was not, in the opinion of those who drew it up, suitable for fifteen countries. it is not suitable for 27 states. (applause from the centre) that is why we are institutionally at a crossroads. we must not ignore this criticism, but it is not to the detriment of mrs kuneva and mr orban, nor should it be seen as a negative thing. well, mr orban and mrs kuneva, we have not known since the hearings that you are not ardent supporters of the social democratic movement. you're forgiven for that, but every man and woman has the right to be wrong. however, we appeal to you, if you are members of the whole college, to ensure that this college does not lose sight of the political balance between economic and social responsibility that is necessary in europe. we trust in your wisdom with our vote. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the report by mrs ruth hieronymi, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the coordination of certain provisions of the member states concerning the pursuit of television activities (com (2005) 0646 - c6-0443/2005 - 2005/0260 (cod)) (a6-0399/2006)
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all those who have worked in parliament on the proposal for a directive on the various audiovisual media services. i would like to congratulate in particular its rapporteur, mrs hieronymi, and the co-rapporteurs and the fictitious rapporteurs who spared no time or energy in drawing up parliament's opinion. these efforts have been rewarded as many of the amendments we are considering today improve on the commission's original proposal presented on 13 december 2005. i would also like to highlight the excellent cooperation between parliament, the council - whose finnish presidency has done an excellent job - and my services. the proposal for a directive on audiovisual media, which modernises the television without frontiers directive, will be regarded as one of the important pieces of legislation adopted during this parliamentary term. it meets two requirements: firstly, it makes it possible to adapt our audiovisual enterprises to the considerable technological and commercial developments; secondly, it reflects a political will to ensure the continuity of the values which are essential to the formation of public opinion and to our social life. on the one hand, technical and commercial aspects must be taken into account: new modes of television consumption such as ip/tv or vod, the switch to digital technologies leading to an increase in the number of offers, the arrival of new players on the market, telecommunications companies, internet service providers, large international investors. on the other hand, it is necessary to take account of values such as the protection of minors, human dignity, consumer protection, the promotion of cultural diversity and media pluralism. the commission proposal will therefore enable all companies wishing to invest in audiovisual media to do so on a level playing field and at european level, the level of the internal market. the principle of complying only with the legislation of the country of establishment as a condition for the full exercise of the freedom to provide services in the internal market, on which the 1989 directive is based, remains the same as in the modernised directive without any substantive change. i thank parliament for supporting me in this fundamental requirement which contributes not only to the strength of our audiovisual industry but also to media pluralism by opening up national markets to european competition. the main points of the commission's proposal are as follows. firstly, to make the directive applicable to audiovisual media services with a definition of such services that is flexible enough to stand the test of time while being precise enough to provide the sector with the legal certainty it needs. secondly, to divide or group the different services into two categories which meet a double criterion of differentiation: the difference in choice and control of users and the impact of these services on the formation of public opinion. linear services, which constitute the first group, correspond to television broadcasting with a sequential grid of programmes, this is push content, regardless of the platform, traditional platform, ip/tv or mobile tv. the other group non-linear services are provided at the request of the consumer; this is the content of the pull, selected from a catalogue, video on demand services, for example. as regards rules, audiovisual content in the first category, traditional television, i.e. broadcasting/television, should be subject to a set of rules comparable to the current rules, but modernised and lightened to take account of the developments i have mentioned. in addition, the use of the country of origin principle should be allowed for the second category of audiovisual content, provided that the harmonised basic rules, in particular on the protection of minors or the prohibition of incitement to racial hatred, are respected. next, barriers to entry in the audiovisual sector should be reduced by simplifying the current rules, in particular in the field of commercial communications, to ensure an equal level of protection of the general interest. madam president, i am very aware that many members are very sensitive about this and that some of them are calling for stricter rules on advertising. i want to be very clear on this. i do not want to see american-style television, which means programs interrupted at all times by isolated spots. the commission therefore reaffirms the limit of 12 minutes per hour and maintains the principle of exception for isolated areas, except for sport. at the same time, we must bear in mind that to buy quality content - sports, films, documentaries - the public and private broadcasters need advertising revenue. if we want europeans to continue to have the choice between free and pay-tv, we must accept that there are advertisements. in addition, the use of co-regulation and self-regulation as a complementary means of implementing the directive should be encouraged. madam president, this is the first time that this possibility has been introduced in a legislative text. the general interest should also be reaffirmed in terms of the protection of children from harmful content, the protection of human dignity, the consumer's right to transparency and the promotion of european works, which are an expression of our cultural diversity. ladies and gentlemen, today you have the opportunity to enable the european content industry, which occupies a very important place, to become even more competitive and more integrated in the european internal market, while maintaining strong ethical requirements. i invite you, during the debate and the votes, to seize the opportunity to send a message to the europeans that television is modern and to the professional sector that it is necessary to invest, not only to create value but also to ensure that the creative content of tomorrow is european. this can only be achieved if the legal framework is better adapted to television in the 21st century. the commission takes these considerations as its sole basis for examining parliament's amendments. madam president, i shall have the opportunity to explain in more detail the commission's position on the amendments at the end of the debate. thank you for your attention. i can already tell you that the commission intends to accept a very large number of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by thanking the commission, madam commissioner, and the council, both the austrian and the finnish presidencies, for their excellent cooperation with parliament. i would like to thank my colleagues, the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs, in particular. it is thanks to them that the committee on culture and education, as the lead committee, has been able to work in excellent cooperation with the committees on the internal market, the economy, industry, civil liberties and equality between men and women. our common goal was and is that television as a mass audiovisual medium should remain both a cultural and an economic asset in the future. freedom of information and freedom of opinion in a common pan-european internal market cannot be regulated by the market alone. that is why it is important that we come to a revision of the television directive today. the television directive has so far covered analogue television services; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic communications networks. it is the express wish of parliament and its committees that television and television-like services should in future be judged on their content, regardless of the technological platform. the main purpose of the audiovisual mass media is decisive, in that information, educational and entertainment content is produced and compiled under editorial responsibility, which is then addressed to the general public and distributed via electronic networks. this means a clear distinction with the other services of the information society and in particular the directive on electronic commerce. this is the legal clarity that the new audiovisual services need and that this directive has met and taken into account. it is only when the main purpose of this directive has been achieved that it applies. to be clear, private or non-public e-mails, electronic editions of newspapers, all of which do not fulfil this main purpose, are not covered by the directive. freedom of the media is based on the principle of the country of origin in the european union. the new directive also applies a strong country of origin principle. however, this has required addressing the concerns of those member states which see or are concerned about abuses or circumvention. the european parliament's compromise has now been very balanced on this point. it takes both aspects into account with the aim of making the most of the lisbon process and thus of the economic strengths of new electronic media services. in this context, we have reached broad agreement on the scope and the country of origin principle, as well as on issues of co- and self-regulation of youth and consumer protection, the right to short-term reporting, the promotion of european content and better access for disabled people. we are in a different position, and this will be shown in the discussion on advertising. i am in favour of this, as the commissioner is: no more advertising 12 minutes but more flexibility. i had to agree to a painful compromise, however, on the question of product placement. i very much hope that better labelling will help us to achieve the greatest possible legal certainty and clarity for consumers. overall, the revision of the eu television directive is a real fitness programme for a future-oriented european television, and i would like to ask for your support! (applause from the centre)
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, i am pleased that our line, which was adopted by only two votes against, has been largely incorporated in the report of the committee on culture. i would like to thank you very much for that, madam rapporteur. we have been working very successfully in recent weeks, and we should of course thank all those involved, to maintain a strong principle of country of origin. this is the basis of the directive and should not be weakened in the interests of a functioning internal market. i believe that opening up to advertising liberalisation is essential to preserve the dual system of our media landscape and to safeguard free-to-air, advertising-supported television. the liberalization should be achieved by abolishing the block-advertising offer, the 30-minute spacing rule for advertising insertions in television films, cinema films, children's and news programmes and the authorization of product placement. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. a ban would be far from realistic. a scientific study shows that product placement is still practised in many member states despite the fact that it is prohibited. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i believe that, in view of the current situation, a balanced solution can be offered with the positive list. in addition to the liberalization of advertising regulations, the re-regulation of the scope of the directive is one of its key points. as we know, television content can now also be received via the internet or mobile phones. here we have taken a technological approach that ensures that future developments and platforms are taken into account. as long as these essential points are taken into account in the plenary vote, we can face the challenges of the digital media age with confidence and at the same time preserve the great good of european television culture.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank mrs hieronymi and the shadow rapporteurs of my committee, in particular mr kamall, mrs hedh and mrs wallis. mrs hieronymi has worked hard to cooperate with the other five committees in the context of intelligent cooperation, and the committee on the internal market has worked out some compromises in advance, which were also reflected in the vote of the committee on culture and were taken into account. this applies in particular to the area of the directive's scope which is important to us. new technologies are driving new offers and new consumer behaviour. the digital revolution is bringing new, powerful players, such as telecommunications companies, to the market. in order to prepare the directive for the future, it was necessary to broaden its scope. but we have also succeeded in making this area of application clearer and more restrictive than in the original commission proposal, and this is undoubtedly a joint success of the committees. (the president cut the speaker off)
i'd be happy to explain, mrs. rühle. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. but as a reporter for a committee, you only have one minute. i leave it to you to settle this satisfactorily within your group. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the committee on women's rights also thanks the commission's rapporteur for her good cooperation and willingness to help. we want to ensure quality european television, that is, the diversity and independence of the media. the new regulation of the directive must not, however, open up new grey areas. we are particularly concerned about the controversial product placement. it used to be frowned upon as a form of advertising. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take account of the fact that the product placement market is not yet fully open to competition. we have made a clear rejection of product placement in the women's committee, and we also want to strengthen youth protection. we want to ban pornography, gratuitous violence and images that violate human dignity from audiovisual programmes. we also want to limit advertising. advertising is not everything. we must ensure that the advertising hours are not extended. i am in favour of maintaining the 45-minute rule, and i am also in favour of not including alcohol in the daily programme to better protect children and young people.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too believe that the revision of the television directive is right, because that is how our reality has changed. we are responding to the digitisation of the media by revising the television directive. we now have video on demand, internet tv, web streaming and all new platforms. it is therefore important that all audiovisual media services are covered by this directive. that is why we have changed the name of the directive. but we don't regulate the internet as such; the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include content produced by private consumers and private homepages. freedom of the press and freedom of expression on the internet are not threatened by traditional broadcasting rules, such as prior content control. the green group believes that the amendment of the directive has achieved three things: it gives more opportunities to independent producers, and it clearly defines what we mean by this. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve access for disabled people and to establish a europe-wide right to breaking news, because this is a matter of diversity and democratic access to information for our citizens. but there are two major criticisms. we greens do not want the americanization of european television. i am not opposed to the united states in principle, but i want to promote and maintain european quality television. all those who support the commission's proposal - including mrs hieronymi - believe that the only way forward for european television is to americanise it with product placement and individual commercials. we should all bow to the pressures of the advertising market. i do not share this position explicitly. i want to keep the separation of content and advertising. i don't want to mix it up. i don't want single spots every few minutes, i don't want six minutes of advertising in 36 minutes, like ppe and pse want for all formats. i want to be able to watch a tv game without being disturbed. the existing advertising possibilities are sufficient. i ask mr schulz - even if he is not present - if you want the commissioners to drive bmws and drink lion's milk at a crime scene in munich. or i ask mrs prets and mr poettering, do you want to allow product placement in a tv game to boost vw sales? and i call on chancellor merkel and minister of culture neumann to use the german presidency of the council which is now beginning to send a clear signal against product placement and not to be half-hearted in their resistance. the report you have submitted, mrs hieronymi, is politically incorrect in my view. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not affected by the introduction of new products. this will make product placement a reality in all european countries for certain formats. i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, do you really want this? i think it's self-deception, too. on the one hand, product placement should be allowed, on the other hand, people - that is how the directive is worded - should not buy the products. this is ridiculous! we can sell ourselves for stupid. i think this is a typical lazy compromise. i urge you to be brave. vote against product placement and single spots! defend quality european television! i would like to see a vote on the free production aid. these are the amendments tabled by us greens. we should be proud of our quality television and differ from the united states on this point in particular. i thank the other members and the commission for their cooperation.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today is a great day for this house. we have worked together on the budgetary regulation for two years, most recently in excellent cooperation with the commission. this parliament has made it clear to everyone that the financial regulation is an important legislative procedure for us. the improvement of budget implementation, the correction of the weaknesses of the 2002 reform and the adoption of justified criticisms of highly bureaucratized procedures and cumbersome procedures were our objectives. we have achieved that goal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thank you all very much. the directorate-general for budgets, headed by commissioner grybauskaitė, has played a very happy and sensible role. thank you very much for that. the council too played along well at first, only to be frightened by its own courage. it's too bad. that's no way to treat your friends! i am not going to go into detail. this europe needs more commitment from the council on the permanent issue of improved quality of control in the member states. minister wideroos, please state that the council accepts the result of the conciliation reached with parliament on 21 november. if not, parliament will not vote on the 2007 budget on thursday. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the finnish presidency leaves a very bitter aftertaste in this house and deprives itself of a great success of its presidency of the council, which was to achieve a real de-bureaucratization in europe, which is mostly due to our amendments. but we are very grateful to the council for supporting and promoting them, especially as regards the question of closer administration to the public, greater transparency, better control conditions to protect european funds and the database in which criminals who have acted to the detriment of the eu are admitted and excluded from eu funds for ten years. these are milestones on the way to better management of eu funds, and you could be proud of us for that. we shall make these points concrete and manageable in the implementing rules. we are guided by the budgetary regulation and the need to deal with these new points in detail. let me make it clear: the commission alone has the responsibility for adopting the implementing regulation. parliament and the council are only consulted. we cannot accept that you should put such cheap pressure on the commission as you have tried to do in the last few days, because that would ultimately curtail the right of this house to hear the matter. the fact that the control of eu funds, recovery and the implementation of uniform transparency standards are a problem is the only reason why we have tabled amendments to the financial regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. parliament cannot be deprived of its right to comment. we are concerned with playing a constructive role in the handling of eu funds. we have learned our lesson from the past and are reaching out to all who want to do the same.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. before i make my speech, i would like to say to my dear colleague salvador: i have also been involved in budgetary discussions in this house for 12 years and i have never seen a budget rapporteur stand up after giving his speech and stop listening to what the members have to say! the european parliament, as a body of political thought, is involved in a number of internal disputes during the budgetary procedure. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. we agree that cooperation with the agencies has improved over the last two years, but that does not mean that good can't get even better! that is why we have given the agencies homework to do before they can have all the money allocated to them. they must send us their work programme with a list of tasks and the information on what has changed in the tasks compared with the previous year and why. they must also implement the personnel guidelines already agreed. these are the tasks for the agencies, which they can also take over themselves. but there are others who must act. the commission, on the one hand, has to approve the staff plans submitted and submit them to us quickly - and i emphasize this - quickly. the second is our colleagues on the specialised committees, who are asked to evaluate the work of the respective agencies on the basis of the work programmes. this too must be done very quickly, so that the agencies are not punished for something for which they are not responsible. so no small talk, please. by fast, i mean by the first quarter of next year, everything has to be done!
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. just a few words on the 2007 budget, the first budget of the new financial perspective. i think we have to ask ourselves very seriously whether it is wise to start by taking money out of the pockets of citizens and businesses in a difficult bureaucratic procedure, transfer it to brussels with a lot of bureaucratic effort, and then distribute it to the member states with even more bureaucratic effort. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can only ask the commission, in particular, mrs grybauskaitė, to take the initiative in 2008-09 when we have to think about how we can prepare for the next financial perspective. i would like to mention a second keyword. the european commission is delegating more and more tasks to agencies, including executive agencies. i am waiting for the commission to come forward with proposals showing its willingness to withdraw staff too. we have now completed the largest enlargement in the history of the european union. twelve member states will have joined the european union on 1 january 2007. we need fewer staff, a lot of the commission's tasks have been transferred to agencies. i am also waiting for very concrete proposals here on how to de-bureaucratize europe. we are not doing this by looking at the laws, as mr verheugen does, but by cutting staff, so that there is no bureaucracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i very much regret that this was not done to the extent that would have been desirable in the run-up to the deliberations in this house.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i now have to 'recommend' our james elles, so i gladly accept the speaking time and i would like to thank him and his colleagues for the praise and suggestions. i would ask that we stand together as we have done so far in completing the reforms on the budgetary regulation. i am happy to accept as rapporteur the task assigned to me by mr paulo cassaca, to keep to the subject. there is also a website on the experience of the financial regulation, which i have set up, where the institutions or informants from other eu institutions can give us their information on how the process with the amended financial regulation is now. i believe that for the first time we have succeeded in bringing together - and this is the great merit of the rapporteur, mr james ellis - the planning and the execution of the budget, as well as the question of control. this is a task which we should take very seriously in the years to come.
before the commissioner has the floor, i would like to ask again if there are any questions to the commissioner that she could answer.
you know, the only way to do that is to have a little time left. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
member of the commission. i'd like to thank all the debaters for their discussions today. it was indeed a very big job - all the political groups and the committee on budgets really worked very hard, and i would like to thank them too, because it was a politically responsible job. political populism was avoided and all decisions were taken in the interests of europe and all european peoples. i would also like to thank my people, my directorate, who are sitting here and who have put so much effort into making this discussion possible today, which is what we are doing now. i would also like to thank the secretariat, both the committee on budgets (cobu) and the council people, who also managed to go beyond their personal ambitions and overcome their mistakes to finally deliver the decision we have on the table today. so i would like to ask all of you, including you, the european budgetary and financial leaders who have spoken here today, to try and, as always, influence your colleagues in the european parliament to vote in favour of the adoption on thursday of the new budget for europe, the enlarged europe of 27.
the joint debate is closed. the vote on the james elles and louis grech report will take place on thursday. the reports by mr gräßle and mr pittella will be voted on tomorrow. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is question time (b6-0448/2006). we shall deal with the following questions to the commission. part one
question no 37 by sharon bowles (h-0963/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: workers from romania and bulgariathe commission's report on the application of the transitional arrangements laid down in the 2003 accession treaty shows that the overall impact of the mobility of workers from those eu member states which joined the eu-15 in 2004 has been positive. is the commission therefore disappointed that some member states, such as the united kingdom and ireland, have decided to restrict the rights of romanians and bulgarians to work in those countries once romania and bulgaria become full members of the eu on 1 january 2007? does the commission believe that this will have any negative impact on the economy in these member states and the eu as a whole, or that more people will be forced to work illegally as a result? in view of the fact that the united kingdom, ireland and sweden (which did not apply restrictions after may 2004) have experienced a decline in unemployment, rising employment and strong economic growth, does the commission consider that the concern expressed by some member states about an 'inflow' of migrant workers is a genuine concern?
member of the commission. as a matter of principle, the commission is in favour of full application of the four freedoms, including the freedom of movement of workers in the european union. one should remember that this freedom is one of the core principles of the treaty of rome. however, the accession treaty with bulgaria and romania, like those of the previous enlargement, lays down transitional provisions on the right to free movement of workers. essentially, these provisions leave it up to each current member state to determine whether, during a transitional period, to grant bulgarian and romanian nationals access to their labour markets. this is thus a prerogative of each and every member state. the commission plans to send a letter to all the member states recalling their obligations under community law and asking member states to provide the details of any national measures that might be introduced for the first two years that follow the accession of bulgaria and romania. at the same time, let me draw your attention to the commission’s report on the functioning of the transitional arrangements for the enlargement of 1 may 2004, and in particular to the finding that the arrival of workers from the accession member states has had a beneficial effect and actually helped to reduce imbalances in national labour markets, without the newcomers largely taking the place of local jobseekers. this applies, of course, to those member states that have facilitated the free movement of workers. this report also found that there have been overall positive effects on the economies of the eu 15 member states, with workers from the new member states contributing to a better functioning of the labour markets, to sustained economic growth and to better public finances. it also found that restrictions on labour market access may increase the incidence of undeclared work. the commission believes that those findings are still valid and trusts that the member states will consider them closely when deciding whether to introduce transitional measures applicable to bulgaria and romania.
member of the commission. thank you for your question. it is perfectly possible that this might happen, but only time will tell, which is why we are constantly analysing developments in the labour markets in the eu and its member states. there are two basic scenarios, which may vary from one member state to another. namely, a given member state may benefit from having the possibility of receiving workers from the new member states, owing to its demographic profile and the challenges posed by an ageing population. at the same time, it may be that another member state has labour market problems, and higher unemployment, and that the national government consequently decides that, given the circumstances, it would benefit from the transitional arrangements. that is why we have decided to leave this matter to the member states to judge, and why we have given them the option of applying the transitional measures.
member of the commission. i have taken note of the decisions of the united kingdom and ireland. it is without doubt a prerogative of those countries, as for any other member state. prior to these decisions, i used the united kingdom and ireland as a benchmark when arguing the case for opening the labour markets of the other member states to the candidate countries. i am proud of having in my previous capacity helped the prime minister of the member state i know best to draft his speech on 1 may 2004 when he declared that member state – finland – was likely to remove the restrictions on free movement of workers from the new member states. that particular member state maintains the same liberal practice for bulgaria and romania. the point is that on the basis of very reliable studies there are overall positive effects, but at the same time we want to leave it to the member states – and we have to leave it to the member states because that is the decision of the council of the european union, which is the highest decision-making body in cases of this kind in the union.
member of the commission. i am glad to note that mr stubb has made a rapid career move from the back benches to the front benches here. that is impressive and remarkable. i want to tell you that we are continuing to analyse developments in the labour markets in the european union and all the evidence shows that those countries that have applied a liberal practice of receiving workers from the new member states, such as the united kingdom and ireland, have benefited in terms of overall economic growth and better functioning of the labour market. therefore we can continue to argue the case so that we have positive benchmarks, like those two countries and other countries such as the member state you know best. after we have argued the case, then it is the prerogative of each and every member state; and of course we have to trust the judgement of each and every national government, because they should know best the circumstances in the country and what is best for the country and its citizens.
question no 38 by mr david martin (h-1022/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: duty-free sales in the light of new aviation safety rulesafter the introduction of the new eu aviation safety rules on 6 november 2006, concerns were raised about the impact of these new rules on the worldwide market for duty-free products. this market is of vital importance to many european luxury goods producers, such as the producers of scotch whisky in the author's constituency. the new rules include provisions for passengers which continue to allow them to purchase liquids (packed in tamper-proof bags) at sales outlets in the airside area of airports. however, these provisions apply only to community airports and air carriers. as a result, neither retailers offering duty-free products at international airports outside europe nor airlines from non-eu countries can sell sought-after goods such as high-quality scotch whisky to european travellers travelling between eu airports or eea airports. what steps does the commission intend to take to enable duty-free sales to european cross-border travellers and to safeguard the market which is of vital importance to scottish whisky producers, their employees and the regional economy?
member of the commission. i thank mr martin for his question. the aim of commission regulation (ec) no 1546/2006 is to address the new threat to civil aviation that is posed by homemade liquid explosives. as such, it prohibits passengers on flights departing from community airports from taking liquids in hand luggage in individual quantities greater than 100 ml. however, an exemption has been granted for liquids sold at airport shops and on board aircraft when certain security conditions are met, including the tamper-evident bag system. given that community legislation does not apply in third countries, it is currently not possible to ensure that airports in third countries or non-community air carriers have security requirements that are equivalent to those applied within the european union and the european economic area. consequently, such airports and airlines cannot benefit from the exemption. the commission will consider whether it is possible to work with third countries to develop a means of establishing equivalence of security measures.
member of the commission. thank you for that question. i wish to begin by underlining the fact that one cannot compromise on security. the commission and the community is doing what it can to further open up the system in place with regard to the european union, although it will probably be quite difficult to achieve significant results in the very short term, and therefore before christmas, as this calls for negotiations with third countries in order to achieve similar positions to ours. regarding your point concerning the publicity campaign, the commission has been working with the international airport and airline stakeholder organisations concerned so that they can inform their members in third countries about the new eu rules. in addition, the commission has assisted those stakeholders in their campaign to inform passengers by developing standardised information posters and leaflets that their members can use as part of their own information campaigns.
member of the commission. the commission is of the view that in fact they do contribute to increased security in real terms, because, obviously, physical checks are carried out on passengers in order to determine that there are no such liquids. any liquids would be carried in transparent bags. secondly, there is also the question of perception: passengers feel that something is being done and that one would think twice before trying to take on board things which could be suspect and which would be spotted.
member of the commission. this is not my direct area of responsibility so my reply is that i have taken note of the remarks you have made and i will pass them on to vice-president barrot and to commissioner kyprianou, who has responsibility for consumer protection.
question no 39 by mr rack (h-1048/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: compensation for delays in air transportintra-european air transport is increasingly subject to long delays with great inconvenience to passengers. does the commission consider that it is possible to revise regulation (ec) no 261/2004 (oj l 46, 17.2.2004, p. 1) so that, as in the case of rail passengers, compensation in cash is paid to air passengers according to the length of delay?
member of the commission. according to the air passenger rights regulation (ec) no 261/2004, airlines are not obliged to offer passengers financial compensation when stranded for long delays. however, the regulation requires that passengers receive assistance from the airline, including food and drink and accommodation as necessary. in addition, the montreal convention, the updated version of the warsaw convention which was transposed into regulation (ec) no 889/2002, dealing with rules for international carrier liabilities, provides for certain rights in case of delays, from which the airline’s liability is limited to 4150 special drawing rights, which is approximately eur 5000. in this case, the passenger must demonstrate a causal link between the damages he or she has suffered and the incident provoked by the airline. according to article 17 of regulation (ec) no 261/2004, the commission will submit to parliament and the council a report on the application of this regulation in the eu member states. a call for tenders has been launched in order to contract an external consultant to give input with regard to quantitative and qualitative data. the study will deal in particular with issues related to delays and cancellations, as well as with the enforcement of the regulation concerned. the commission cannot at present prejudge whether additional measures will be proposed to improve the protection of air passengers. the commission will have to wait for the final results of the assessment made by the external consultants.
member of the commission. i would like to point out that the important difference between the previous regulation and the present one which is based on the montreal convention is that passengers are entitled to receive direct and on-the-spot information, assistance and rerouting facilities, whereas the montreal convention only covers ad hoc claims to be presented in a court, as you rightly indicated, for possible damage caused because of a delay. i will, however, pass on the remarks that you have made to vice-president barrot in order to see whether anything further can be done, although as i pointed out in my reply to the question, the commission does not envisage coming up with additional measures before the final results of the assessment – which is being carried out by an external consultant – are known.
member of the commission. as a general comment, regulation (ec) no 261/2004 does not provide for any extraordinary circumstances linked to denied boarding. if because of technical failure an airline replaces the original aircraft with a smaller type, and some of the passengers are denied boarding because not all of them can board that aircraft, and they have to stay behind at the airport, those stranded passengers have to be assisted and offered financial compensation as provided for in the regulation. it is only for reasons of health, safety or security or inadequate travel documentation that passengers can be refused embarkation on a flight. i will also refer to vice-president barrot for his attention the specific comments you have made with regard to last night’s events concerning air france.
member of the commission. you are right that security measures and additional security measures – and this links up to the previous question – have a cost. however, one needs to underline that if we really want to tackle the question of security on board aircraft then cost considerations can only be secondary. however, having said that, i will again pass your remarks on to vice-president barrot, to see whether there is scope for trying to identify possibilities of cost-sharing in this regard.
this brings us to the second part of our question time. since we have only about half an hour left, i can only allow a total of 10 minutes of question time per commissioner. i would ask all those who are asking to take a moment to reflect on this.
question no 40 by chris davies (h-0991/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eu action to end by-catch discardswhen will the commission introduce measures to end by-catch discards by fishing vessels?
member of the commission. it is somewhat premature to give details because if one starts going into detail now before discussions with the stakeholders, it could be somewhat alarmist, as always happens in fisheries. our intention is to heavily involve the regional advisory councils and to involve the stakeholders in how to manage fisheries in a way in which we try to tackle the cod problem effectively. there is, as all of us know, a serious problem with regard to cod sustainability. in most, if not all, community waters it is in a virtually depleted state. it is possible for it to be rescued, but we need to be inventive in this regard. the general idea behind a cod by-catch fishery is that, for as long as cod is not recovered, you do not target cod. thus fishers would not target cod, but they would be allowed to land cod caught as a by-catch within certain limits. in that way you can provide an incentive for the diversification of fisheries into other fisheries so you would not thereby be targeting cod and at the same time you would reduce the unnecessary and very costly discarding of cod. these are initial ideas which we need to ponder further and which we need to discuss primarily with the stakeholders, to see whether there is a way forward, or whether, as in many other respects, we end up concluding that the system as it operates is giving better results in certain respects. but i hope that we will manage to work out a system which will give much better results than those we have at the moment with regard to cod and to cod recovery in particular.
question no 41 has been withdrawn. question no 42 by mrs teresa riera madurell (h-1040/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: commission action following the recommendations contained in parliament's resolution on women's networks: fisheries, agriculture and diversification the resolution of parliament on women's networks: fisheries, agriculture and diversification, adopted on 15 december 2005, contains recommendations from the committee on women's rights and gender equality. this resolution called, inter alia, for measures to improve the living conditions of women in the fishing sector and of their families and communities. what measures does the commission intend to take to support the efforts of these women to secure their social and economic rights and to improve their legal and social standing? does the commission intend to take measures to ensure full application of the principle of equal treatment and equal opportunities for women and men in the field of education and access to finance and credit, including micro-credit? how does the commission intend to improve the effective participation of women in representative, decision-making and advisory bodies in the fisheries sector at european, national and regional level? has the commission taken any specific initiative to improve the particular situation of female shellfish farmers?
member of the commission. i will look into the feasibility of creating such a pilot project which would be specific to shellfish gatherers and how their situation on all fronts can be improved. i can only say at the moment that i am favourably disposed in that regard, but i need to study it further before i can give any commitment.
we are now moving to the next part of question time, and i welcome commissioner špidla to that. questions 43 to 45 will be answered in writing. question no 46 by mr lambert van nistelrooij (h-0972/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: economic and innovation opportunities associated with demographic change population ageing and related demographic change are seen as a threat to the labour market and the 'knowledge-based economy' of the eu, its member states and regions. but it can also be seen as an opportunity for new jobs in a growing market of new products and services that improve the quality of life of older people, as well as for economic growth and for increasing europe's competitiveness. this is the approach of the so-called 'silver economy'. recent calculations in germany have shown that a decisive response to the needs and interests of the sometimes increasingly wealthy elderly could lead to 900 000 new jobs over the next two decades. there are no other sectors or businesses with more growth potential. the challenges posed by population ageing have not been clearly outlined in a horizontal manner in the commission's communications on 'the demographic future of europe - from challenge to opportunity' (com (2006) 0571 final) and 'european values in a globalised world' (com (2005) 0525 final), the green paper on 'demographic change' and the main policy programmes aligned with the lisbon strategy, such as the structural funds, the seventh framework programme for research and development and the competition and innovation framework programme. exceptions are the commission's innovative 'ambient assisted living' measures, the i2010 initiative and the commission's communication on eaccessibility, which is now part of the einclusion programme under the third pillar of i2010. what does the commission intend to do to encourage member states and regions to include the concept of a 'silver economy' as a horizontal policy measure in their innovation-friendly reform programmes under the lisbon strategy for 2007 and beyond? does the commission intend to coordinate the design of its policies on the various issues of the 'silver economy'?
member of the commission. the question of the age of retirement is a highly sensitive one, which cannot be answered very clearly and fixed by a decision at european level, and is therefore entirely a matter for the national states. i would like to stress that this is a legitimate question and that the commission's strategy is not to set a fixed age. the commission's strategy, which i strongly support, is to extend working life, to extend the actual time a person spends working in his lifetime. it is less important to set an administrative age, it is far more important to create the conditions for people to end their working careers later. very often you will notice that the administrative age is set at 65, whereas the average age for leaving an economic career in europe is currently 59. i would also like to emphasize that there is an extended average life expectancy in good health, which is 62 years on average in europe, but there are very substantial differences between countries. that is a question that must of course be taken into account in the debate. i would like to emphasise that the concept of an inclusive society is based on the fact that work has a character of active inclusion in society in addition to its economic character. i think that sociological research shows very well that early retirement at a time when one has not reached one's potential is perceived as a disadvantage rather than an advantage. let me return to your basic question. the commission does not intend to set and recommend any administrative, fixed retirement age. on the other hand, it is of the opinion that, in view of demographic ageing, in view of the significant increase in the age at which people are entitled to receive a pension, it is appropriate to increase the total time spent in work. to do this, a number of measures must be taken, of which the administrative extension of the retirement age is, at least from my point of view, among the less significant.
member of the commission. firstly, it is very important to increase the overall capacity of the labour market in the european union through those measures which we consider productive and important in the labour market. these are: increasing employability, skills, retraining, supporting people when they lose their jobs and the concept of flex-security, i.e. in particular active support for people in transition. this transition may not necessarily mean just job loss, but it may also mean a change from one type of occupation to another. these are all very important questions which need to be included in the basic solution to the problem you mentioned, i.e. the activation of the european labour market. the second is to assess and eliminate any discriminatory or inequitable elements in relation to pension systems and social protection and social insurance systems. the commission considers all of this important and is publishing it in this way. another measure, again part of the lisbon strategy, is to increase the employment of people aged over 50. at the same time, one of the very important objectives is to eliminate the gender pay gap, i.e. to reduce the gender pay gap, as this is one of the main causes of the pension age gap. the commission takes a comprehensive approach in this case, which looks at the labour market, social security systems and pay inequalities. i think this attitude and this approach is rational.
question no 47 by mr bernd posselt (h-0982/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: demographics and educational attainmentin its recent studies on demographics, has the commission also examined the impact of the so-called educational attainment on population trends in norway and does it intend to compare similar models in non-member countries such as norway and member states such as france?
member of the commission. madam president, mr president of the council, the commission has not yet carried out any studies on the impact of the various benefit systems on the birth rate. demographers generally agree that it is difficult to separate the effects of different types of cash benefits from other, or perhaps decisive, factors affecting fertility. however, the commission believes that the search for examples of good practice should not be limited to the member states of the european union and that we could certainly learn from the nordic countries that are not members of the european union, i.e. norway and iceland, in dealing with the problems of demographic change. following up on its communication 'the demographic future of europe: taking advantage of the challenge' adopted on 12 october 2006, the commission intends to set up a group of government experts on demographic and family issues to assist the commission in future activities and to serve as a basis for the exchange of good practice. it is also worth recalling that, in parallel with the adoption of the demography communication, the commission decided to consult the european social partners on reconciling work, private and family life. the social partners were invited to assess whether further improvements are necessary, in particular in terms of working hours, flexible working conditions, new possibilities offered by information technologies, the availability and quality of childcare, care for the elderly and other dependants, leave including parental leave and leave to care for a dependant or a child or a disabled family member. as the norwegian social partners are members of european organisations representing the social partners, it is assumed that their experience with parental benefits will be taken into account. the commission will also support the german presidency in the creation of a european alliance for families. the commission considers that such an alliance could help to identify and exchange best practices between member states. the aim would be to improve the conditions of eu families and give europeans the freedom to have as many children as they want. ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from my more extensive speech that the commission has not yet directly assessed the problem of cash payments and that this question will be the subject of further examination.
i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your very good answer and for the courage with which you have tackled this subject, which many of your predecessors shunned. i would just like to ask you: are you also planning measures to promote child- and family-friendliness in european societies in the intangible sphere, and are you also thinking of involving non-governmental organisations, private associations and private individuals in this, in order to integrate civil society into this work?
member of the commission. because time is really very tight, so let me say very briefly that yes, because material conditions are also an essential component of our lives, the quality of life and the support of people and families, and just as it is absolutely clear that without using the capacity of ngos, it is not possible to make progress in this area. the broad involvement of ngos, associations and various unions is therefore expected, as mr posselt indicated in his question.
questions 48 to 53 will be answered in writing. question no 54 by mr tarabella (h-0955/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: failure of consumer policy in the single marketthe latest eurobarometer survey, conducted in march 2006, has once again shown the total distrust of consumers towards the single market and their complete ignorance of their rights and the possibilities of solving their problems. can the commission explain why the existing legal instruments are inadequate and/or poorly implemented to the extent that consumers are deterred from making cross-border purchases? how does it intend to protect consumers from the growing disadvantages caused by the explosive growth of online shopping? why does it not take into account the thousands of complaints it receives from its own networks concerning cross-border purchases, travel, health services, etc.?
member of the commission. madam president, the survey referred to by the honourable member does indeed confirm the commission's view that much more needs to be done to strengthen consumer confidence in the internal market. but if we think about where we started from, where we started from and where we are today, we should not adopt such a totally negative attitude. the progress is significant and can be seen in the measures we have taken and their implementation in recent years. the commission is certainly not complacent and is constantly working to strengthen consumer confidence, but the member states also have an important role to play. although low confidence is due to many factors, one of them is clearly the lack of a harmonised consumer protection system, which means that consumers do not know what to expect when they shop across their national borders. but they must recognize that much has been achieved in recent years to solve these problems. but it is clear, of course, that more needs to be done, particularly in terms of existing legislation and its implementation, in order to increase consumer confidence. both the measures taken and those planned are intended to deal with the growing number of unfair and illegal practices. what has been achieved at european union level? first of all, i would like to assure you that the commission has never ignored the complaints it has received or is receiving through its networks. on the contrary, it is precisely these complaints that have triggered action in the past, for example, to adopt legislation against unfair commercial practices. they also form an important part of the evidence base and information for future action, for example for time-sharing. with this legislation on time-sharing we will cover travel products which escape the legislation and thus do not provide an acceptable level of consumer protection. the other legislation i referred to, the unfair commercial practices directive 2005/29, prohibits aggressive practices such as pressure selling, misleading marketing and unfair advertising. consumers in the european union will have the same protection whether they buy locally, from other member states or via the internet, and the horizontal nature of this protection will allow it to also cover new practices that will emerge as the market evolves. in addition, the directive 2000/31 on electronic commerce imposed information requirements to ensure that consumers are fully informed as to the identity of the trader, the commercial nature of internet communications, the actual price, and the technical means. regulation 2006/2004 on consumer protection cooperation will enable the competent national authorities to take swift action to combat crossborder ruthless and unfair traders, wherever they are in the european union. in the proposal for a regulation on the law applicable to contracts, the so-called 'rome i regulation', the commission proposal will significantly increase consumer confidence by giving them the advantage of the legislation they are familiar with. we also have the european consumer centres networks or the financial dispute resolution network which inform consumers about their rights and help them to secure their rights through legal recourse and through out-of-court settlement of cross-border cases. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of consumers. a green paper will shortly be adopted for consultation with the general public. the aim is to find ways of modernising and improving existing legislation in order to further increase consumer and business confidence in buying and selling across the internal market's borders. the issue of consumer confidence will of course also be considered in the context of the forthcoming strategy for consumer policy. as you can see, although our investigations show that there are still significant problems, i think it is clear that the commission is not complacent, it is not passive, but is taking measures which are part of a comprehensive programme to tackle the shortcomings identified by the investigation.
member of the commission. we are going to look into how all the legislation has been transposed and we are checking it through our review of the acquis. we will make sure first of all that member states have properly transposed this legislation. if it appears that even if the transposition has been done properly there are still problems in the internal market and still trade barriers or discrepancies in consumer protection between member states, we will make sure that these are corrected through additional initiatives. so we are following this very carefully and will make sure that member states properly apply all the european legislation when it comes to consumer protection. as you know, as of 1 january my colleague mrs kuneva is going to take over consumer protection and she feels very strongly about this issue as well.
question no 55 by sarah ludford (h-0965/06) subject: the use of the euro in the european union subject: genetically modified ricewhile the commission's decision of 23 october on the mandatory testing of imports of genetically modified organisms is welcome, many aspects of this are of great concern. the competent authorities of the united states have repeatedly certified that their rice is free from the unauthorised gmo llrice 601; however, this was found in the deliveries. in view of this, how can eu consumers have confidence in the reliability of these certification schemes? genetically modified rice from the united states has been reportedly sold in uk supermarkets with the approval of the uk's official food regulator, the food standards agency (fsa). does this build trust in the fsa? how could the authority's decision be in line with eu law? the uk government has proposed to allow the joint cultivation of gmo crops and conventional and organic crops. how will the commission prevent infringements of eu legislation on contamination?
member of the commission. it is true that this is a very important issue for us and it is clear that no unauthorised product can enter the market in the european union. we have a very strict system in place to ensure that no product slips through the very high standard assessment procedure. the question of the contamination of us long grain rice, involving unauthorised gm llrice 601, proves that this is not just a statement but a fact. our reaction has shown that we intend to apply our legislation in every possible case. as soon as the commission was informed of this contamination of us rice, we took every possible measure to prevent unauthorised products from entering the market. first, we introduced a requirement for certification of every single consignment arriving in the european union. but when we became aware that shipments of us rice certified as gm-free tested positive at the port of arrival in the european union, the certification requirement was strengthened by the imposition of systematic counter-testing of each consignment originating in the us. furthermore, it is also important that this counter-testing be carried out on the basis of a harmonised and very strict sampling and testing procedure, which guarantees reliability and comparability of the results, so our consumers can be assured that every consignment of us long grain rice is tested twice, both in the us and on arrival in the european union. i have to remind you that member states bear the primary responsibility for enforcing these requirements and verifying that they are fulfilled by business operators. the commission has systematically reminded national authorities of this obligation to carry out adequate checks and withdraw contaminated products. the uk food standards agency has clarified its approach by agreeing to the conclusions of the standing committee on 11 september 2006. in that context, member states commit themselves to checking all stored bulk consignments of us rice already on the european union market. when it comes to products on the shelf, our legislation provides that member states will take all appropriate measures to ensure that these are tested and removed from the market if necessary. but the aim is to provide the legislation. it is up to the member states to ensure that measures are taken in the most effective way. on the issue of cross-pollination, it is important to remember that no gm crop can be grown in the european union unless it has been evaluated as safe for the environment and human and animal health and authorised for cultivation. member states are developing coexistence strategies to ensure that they can limit as much as possible admixtures of gm and non-gm crops and address the economic consequences. the competence for this lies with the member states, following the recommendations and guidelines of the european union. however, the special characteristics of each member state – the landscape, the environment, climate conditions – make it important for them to take the most appropriate measures. we know that many member states, including the united kingdom, have defined or are in the process of defining approaches to ensure that gm crops can coexist with conventional and organic crops. member states are obliged to notify national coexistence measures to the commission and the commission follows this very closely.
member of the commission. as long as we have gm products throughout the world that are not authorised by us, we will always have to be alert and to take all measures available. i think the fact that we identified early on that we could not rely on us certification and that we introduced our own testing system proves that we are very serious about this. on the uk issue, any product containing an unauthorised gm component has to be withdrawn because it is on the market illegally. that is an obligation for all member states including the uk; this was made clear to them and they understood that. it is true that the european food safety authority said that there was no imminent danger to human health, and the uk repeated that, but, as far as the commission is concerned, any product of this sort that has not been authorised through our procedures is on the market illegally and has to be removed. after we made it clear to the uk authorities that this was the legal position, they adjusted their position. in this respect, we make sure that member states also apply the legislation, which is very strict, and no unauthorised product can reach the consumer. after some discussions, the uk has corrected its position.
questions which have not been dealt with for reasons of time will be answered in writing (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.50 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. you are wrong if you expect me to join in the praise of this global adjustment fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fund is basically a fire extinguisher if european economic policy does not go hand in hand with social cohesion. it is based on modest and minimal resources, a reserve which has to be raised only when european policy is not socially balanced and has therefore failed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it would have been better if the council had put more money into the budget for longterm regional and sectoral restructuring, modernisation and employment. it is really thanks to the rapporteur, mrs bachelot-narquin, that despite the opposition in parliament and in the council, she has ensured that a really improved proposal now becomes the legal basis for this fund in a single reading. it is really good that she has taken our amendments on board. the european parliament has abolished discrimination against older workers and has given them the same opportunities for continuing to work as their younger colleagues. it has brought the principle of gender mainstreaming into the same weight as we have in the european social fund, and - this is very crucial - it has brought about the fact that this fund is also available for microcredit, so that working women can get a capital base that is appropriate to them when they have to become self-employed out of the threat of unemployment because they have no other choice. that is precisely the point: you have no other choice because europe has had a bad trade policy from the start. we have also supported the rapporteur in this area, because she has helped to improve the use of this fund.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the approach of the globalisation fund is quite right. it should show solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs as a result of international relocations. the aim is to provide temporary income support for training and integration measures in order to create new employment opportunities. but thinking well is not the same as doing well. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if you have high hopes but fail to live up to them, you will be left with lasting frustration. the fund is flawed in its regulatory policy, since it does not address the causes of redundancies but only the symptoms. the authorisation procedures are too complicated, the bureaucracy is too large and the costs are too high, but above all it is not suitable for smes. the reduction of the threshold from 1 000 to 500 redundancies was rejected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the fund is to be involved if a member state reports 1 000 redundancies in its smes in a nine-month period. the employment committee had asked for 12 months. in our member states, much more structural investment is needed, on the one hand in research and innovation and on the other in high-quality education and training. the european union is providing short- and long-term support through lifelong learning programmes. in addition, esf funds are used to finance retraining, the acquisition of qualifications and the integration of older workers. the globalisation fund has been pushed through the institutions at a rapid pace. in its present form it does not even begin to meet the high expectations of the citizens.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i thank my co-rapporteur and the commission. we have tried to get the institute up and running as quickly as possible by working very well together. it was a very successful job. i would ask you, mr president, to instruct all services to check all translations for gender-sensitive language. in my language, german, despite repeated requests, there is no guarantee that gender-sensitive language is used everywhere. since the european parliament was set up, we have been a force for equality here. for almost 10 years now, we have been discussing how best to create an institution that would bring together gender mainstreaming and the best outcomes from all countries in a cross-sectional task. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what does that mean? what does that mean? in practice, this means that the gender institute is financed from the former equality programme. the budget is cut in half and the core programme has been transferred to the progress social action programme. that's the price women pay. if one side says that the institute is too expensive, one must say: no, the women paid too much! but we have taken the institute further here in parliament with the great support of the women's associations. we want it to work independently and to start a central collection of the best practices for the best and most successful equality. we want all these examples from all the countries to be brought together and the gap to be closed between the legal situation on equality as we have it in the european treaties, which is also confirmed in article 3, and the actual discrimination that takes place on a daily basis. we want women to no longer earn about 30% less than their male counterparts. it may be different with the presidents of parliament. you can laugh about it, but if the woman on the assembly line earns 30% less than her male colleagues, it's no longer funny. we want all member states to be informed about how to successfully combat violence, forced prostitution and sexual exploitation. we want to exchange ideas on how to end gender discrimination in the 21st century. we have reached a rapid agreement in committee - i have already stressed this - . of the 50 amendments which we adopted at first reading, 35 were adopted immediately with the commission's strong support. we have had to fight for other amendments. we have been very keen to have a hearing on the management of the institute - i stress, i am not gender neutral here, i expect a female director to be appointed - but have had to fight for it. we've got a small board of directors. it is not conceivable that each member state would be represented on the management board, which would mean that in the end 33 people would control and only 13 people would work. no one can tell you that. we want the european institute for gender equality to work alongside the european institutions and to make our work in parliament more efficient through scientific input. but how is it possible - and here i see the big drop of water - that the council decided last week that the institute should come to vilnius? that is far from the decision-making centres. a labour institute like the gender institute is not meant to represent or flatter a country, but it should be close to our decision-making centres. that means weakness. we wanted to have support for the work of the institutions and we wanted to see an efficient work that helps to achieve political and real equality. i therefore think that we have made a good proposal and i ask the house to agree to our compromise which has been negotiated with the council. i am asking for broad support for the european institute for gender equality. we have cleared the way for a rapid agreement and i thank all those involved once again. i would also like to thank the commission in particular for its repeated efforts to bridge the gap in the negotiations between parliament and the council. i would like to thank once again all those who have worked with me, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups. with the launch of the gender institute, which is expected soon, we have reached a milestone. but there is still much work to be done to meet the big challenges. i thank you for your willingness to cooperate here, but at the same time i ask the question: who is really in a position to fill this institution with staff? it must be someone who brings not only expertise but also the necessary insight into the european institutions. the committee on women's rights will be very careful here to ensure that we do not get anyone from the council or the commission into this institution who cannot fulfil this task. if we tackle the whole thing with the great support of a network of women's organizations, as this is suggesting, then it will be a huge step forward for the european women's movement to have this institute.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to thank the rapporteurs. it is a huge step forward if this gender institute is soon to become a reality. europe needs an independent, self-contained gender institute to ensure that the goal of equality between women and men is not subordinated to other anti-discrimination measures. that's why it's very important that we've made it clear that we want a strong woman at the helm of this institute. the commission is also proposing to set up a gender institute, since discrimination against women is still a reality in europe. there are many areas where we need not only more statistics but also innovative solutions. i hope that this institute will not only become a data-collection site, but also a truly innovative contribution to solving gender discrimination. i would like to conclude by saying something that is very important to me. the european gender institute cannot replace concrete policies and laws, and it must not become an alibi for inaction on legislative initiatives. (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs for their fruitful and constructive cooperation. the vote on the report has been postponed several times, but i think it was worth the wait and the negotiations have shown that we can now reach a compromise with the council at first reading. it is important that the regulation is launched at first reading because member states need instruments to achieve the air quality targets we have set. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat air pollution. this alarming figure must be minimised. the compromise which will be put to the vote tomorrow is significantly different from the commission proposal because a second stage has been added by the environment committee. the so-called euro 6 level brings ambitious and realistic limits. the present compromise finally addresses the problem of particulate matter effectively. this is achieved by the introduction of particulate filters. the limit value for the particle mass is reduced from 25 mg/km to 5 mg/km compared to euro 4. this represents a reduction of 80% in relation to the current euro 4 emission standard. in addition, the number of particles shall be measured at the latest when the euro 6 level enters into force on 1 september 2014. measuring the number of particles will reduce the particularly harmful pm2.5 particles, which in turn will lead to progress in improving air quality and public health in europe. the greatest progress in reducing motor vehicle emissions is being made in the case of nitrogen oxides. the first stage will be a reduction to 180 mg/km for diesel cars and 60 mg/km for petrol cars. this corresponds to a reduction of 28% for diesel cars and 25% for petrol cars in respect of nitrogen oxides compared with the current euro 4 emission standard. the biggest step, however, will be taken at the planned euro 6 level for diesel cars. at this stage, the emission of nitrogen oxides is reduced by 56% from 180 mg/km to 80 mg/km. as regards the timeframe, i would like to note that the euro 5 level must be met by 1 september 2009 for new vehicle types and the euro 6 level by 1 september 2014. in fact, the introduction of euro 5 and euro 6 vehicles will be accelerated because this regulation gives member states the possibility to tax vehicles with euro 5 and euro 6 emission standards before 1 september 2009. a glance at the history books shows that, for example, in 2001 vehicles with the euro 4 exhaust gas standard were already available on the market, although the euro 4 exhaust gas standard only entered into force on 1 january 2005. euro 5 not only improves air quality in europe, but this regulation and the compromise reached also improve the rights of european producers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gas supply to the community is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. chapter 3 of the regulation also strengthens the rights of consumers by stipulating that consumers can continue to choose their own workshop. this has been achieved by ensuring access to repair information and by establishing a new format, the so-called oasis format, in this regulation for the provision of repair information. i would also like to mention that the euro 5 regulation is a good example of how to reduce bureaucracy in europe. the euro 5 regulation repeals 25 directives. i would like to expressly welcome this in the interests of better legislation. finally, i would ask for support for the compromise reached so that consumer rights can be strengthened and air quality improved. the compromise was negotiated as a package and any deviation from the overall package would inevitably lead to a second reading. a second reading would mean that the euro 5 instrument for improving air quality in europe would be put on hold and that improvement in air quality would be put on hold.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs very much for their good cooperation. the euro 5 regulation will ensure two things in future: firstly, unrestricted access by independent workshops to the necessary repair information and secondly, demanding emission limits for modern cars, which will lead to better air quality. effective health protection and the strengthening of small and mediumsized enterprises - these are objectives which i fully support. that is why i shall vote in favour of the compromise we have negotiated with the council. the first point, access to repair information, is as follows: modern cars are equipped with a wide range of electronically controlled vehicle components. these cannot be repaired without specific information from the car manufacturer. this is why free workshops need access to this information. this is also important for consumers. in future, they will be able to choose which workshop they take a car to for repair or maintenance. this promotes competition and thus also leads to lower prices. the aim, however, should be to eventually incorporate the regulation of access to repair information into the new type-examination framework directive. the regulation is better regulated there in terms of both law and subject matter than in a regulation on emission limit values. the council has welcomed the idea we have developed in the committee on the internal market. the second point is the new emission limit values. the new limit values make the use of soot particulate filters virtually compulsory. this is an important step towards better air quality. it is also true that it is already setting new euro 6 limit values. this means planning and investment security for car manufacturers and encourages innovation. we shall adopt tomorrow a euro 5 regulation which will provide for greater health protection and at the same time strengthen small and mediumsized enterprises.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteur first of all for the excellent work he has done here. matthias, that's a great compliment, i don't praise social democrats every day! the open cooperation between the rapporteurs was crucial in enabling us to reach a good compromise and agreement at first reading. the soot particles problem in diesel vehicles is virtually solved with euro 5, particulate emissions are reduced by 80%, and with modern engine and particulate filters, the exhaust of many new diesel cars will produce cleaner air than is sucked in from the front. we are also taking a huge step down in nitrogen oxides for diesel. as rapporteur for the air quality directive, i can tell you that i wish all technical systems were as clean and energy-efficient as our modern cars. i am pleased that we have been able to agree on a realistic timetable for the introduction of the new limits, which takes account of the product cycles of the modern automotive industry. the 'green side' of the house wants an earlier introduction of euro 5 and euro 6 and stricter limits for nitrogen oxides. we all want to see this, and the green party is right to say that the technology already exists. of course there are. but we cannot pursue a policy of illusions here. companies not only have responsibilities, they also have risks. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's energy policy. it's not going to do much good to the environment if we don't get the old cars off the road because the new, clean cars are not affordable. it's not the new cars that are the problem. more than half of all cars in europe are euro 3 or below, so our aim must be to renew our fleet. we have been generous with the exemptions for the m1 vehicles, but i think that is justified, because the environmental impact is comparatively small. the fact is that off-road vehicles are popular and there is a trend toward larger cars. but it is not the legislator's job to criticize that. in a market economy - and i want to keep reminding you of this in environmental decisions - the final decision to buy is ultimately the customer's. i come from a system of the former gdr where the state and party leadership decided for us what the better car for the individual is. i don't want to go back there!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have to say, we shadow reporters had a lot of fun with our reporter matthias groote, too. we have been more or less in agreement, but at the end of the compromise i wondered whether the leadership of the negotiations was really in the hands of the environment committee. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i would like to explain briefly my position, which is somewhat different from the one mr krahmer has presented in this 'green side of the house'. i note that parliament is clearly not prepared to give a firm hand to incentives for technological innovation which would have a positive effect on the environment. particulate filters, such as we now require for euro 5 so sometime from autumn 2009 , are already available today. i do not understand why we are now putting in place an artificial political delay. the technology for reducing nitrogen oxides is also available today. i do not understand why they should be required only from 2014 and 2015. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also have a great deal of reservations about the fact that we cannot now introduce tax incentives for an ambitious nitrogen oxide reduction technology. the lack of ambition of this euro 5 and euro 6 regulation culminates symbolically in this extremely generous derogation for heavy off-road vehicles. i do not understand why these scum-throwers in particular should be excluded in the long term - that is, well beyond this decade. i think that this is simply an unacceptable and unreasonable political signal.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr groote, who comes from the autoland of lower saxony, a german state where a great many cars are built, and who has therefore taken the trouble to take account of the industrial location. we have heard - i will not go into it - that there is a compulsion to act immediately. we followed him. the development of the euronorm is undoubtedly a decisive step forward in european environmental policy, a step which the automobile industry can live with. as has been pointed out on several occasions, the positive effects of the euro standards are so great that non-european countries are already taking our standards as a model. i would like to illustrate this by the example of china, whose development i am following closely in my capacity as a member of the chinese delegation. i have just been in shanghai for six weeks, at the china automotive industry forum, where i spoke about europe's environmental activities in the automotive sector. it was learned that china will introduce emission standards in line with the euro 3 standard in 2007. this will reduce emissions by 30%. the next stage, equivalent to the euro 4 standard, will be reached in 2010. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental standards of the community are respected. this can also be described as a welcome side effect of the barriers to entry. i am particularly pleased that the scope of the euro standards has been extended beyond the european area, since a europe that stands alone would have relatively little impact on the world stage and would have a negative impact on our competitiveness. the acceptance of all the parties involved will enable us to vote tomorrow on a balanced proposal for the euro 5 and euro 6 standards. but now it is also up to the highly profitable fuel industry to become more involved in the process and to improve the environmental performance of fuels so that the burden of costly improvements is not borne solely by the automotive industry.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament asked the commission in the spring of this year to draw up a report on the question of integration capacity. this was done on 8 november, but in our view not in a satisfactory way. enlargement has been one of the most successful policies of the european union so far. the area of peace, stability and economic development has been considerably enlarged. it is the contribution to the reunification of europe. we also know that in the candidate countries, but also in other european countries, the european perspective is an essential instrument for the internal reform process. these two positive elements should always be seen as headlines. however, after enlargement to 27 countries and possibly 28 countries soon with croatia , we must be concerned about the future of the european project. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. or do we want to let them drift as an economic project? these questions must be answered clearly. we must recognize that we cannot go any further with the current institutional structure of the european union. the constitutional treaty provided for the last enlargement. that is why we must first complete and consolidate the last extension before we can seriously consider any major further measures without destroying the project itself. that is why the constitutional treaty - mr stubb will say more about this - has a certain conditionality. we need to discuss other questions that need to be answered clearly so that we know where the journey is going, for example in relation to the next review clause and the financial perspective due in 2008/2009, so that we know what the consequences of each enlargement will be for the european project. in any case, we cannot continue in many areas - agricultural policy, structural policy, etc. - as we are doing now. what are the consequences for certain member states, what do they get less money for, what do others have to pay more for? that needs to be clarified in order to pursue the project seriously in this way. it is quite clear that the commitments we made to the western balkan countries, for example in thessaloniki, must be respected. no one is asking for an end to negotiations. we know that there is a need for urgency and that the heads of state and government must push forward the constitutional process because croatia is at the door. but we must also make it clear that full membership is not the only instrument, at any given moment and in any given case, for the immediate or long term, with which we can credibly fulfil the european perspective. for these reasons, questions of development and neighbourhood policy or questions of multilateral groupings of states with a european perspective arise, so that the peoples have something now and not in fifteen years' time, when negotiations are finally concluded, which have not yet begun. so we have to develop a lot more imagination. i am thinking of the example of ukraine, where unfortunately a lot of time has been lost, to our own detriment. the european perspective of such countries is also in our interest and not only in the interest of the countries. that's why we have to do something. but one thing must be clear: if we do not make progress in the internal development of the european union and yet expand, there will be an internal circle in the long run. that means that we will then have first- and second-class members of the european union. to put it in a formula: constitution or court city. that's another possible consequence. the countries which are particularly keen to push for enlargement are precisely those which are hindering or seeking to prevent the deepening of the european union. i have credibility problems with countries like that. in the case of turkey, we have proposed a formula with a number of colleagues to absorb the new development. i hope that's possible. it is regrettable that turkey's legal obligations are not being met and that this is being postponed once again. on the other hand, it would also have been the wrong way to end the negotiations. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate on the two reports shows that there is a welcome consensus in this house that we need massive institutional reforms before we can take on new candidates. we all know that the european union is not in a good state. it is therefore right that this house should put the european union's capacity to absorb new members at the centre of enlargement policy. it is not a new criterion, as some colleagues sometimes claim. it is an important element, but one that has been neglected in the past. the enlargements of the past were successful, but in 2004 the union was enlarged without deepening beforehand or at the same time. the idea of ever closer union has thus been put at risk. the idea of renewing this idea must be a guiding principle for us as european parliamentarians. to do this, we need effective institutions, political will and above all the support of our citizens. we can only get that if we're credible. credibility also means that we must be prepared to explore new avenues and to explore alternative options for cooperation with future candidate countries. the same applies to the connection of these countries. the alternative is not, as elmar brok has said, the constitution or the court city. our vision should be constitution and court city. i think that we should have this debate in brussels and not in strasbourg.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by briefly commenting on the commission's report on the enlargement strategy, which is divided into three parts, and for good reason. a key element of the commission's strategy is the communication strategy required. if we politicians are right to interfere in this debate, we should maintain this communication strategy for ourselves and not insinuate into reports something that is not contained in them at all. it is also unfair to use national feelings, party sentiments, etc., to speak against the enlargement strategy or against the constitution. i am very clear about this, and i am referring to the report by mr brok. of course, there are some very ambivalent parts to it. but if you have taken the trouble to read this report as a draft, you will know that it was only after massive changes by the liberals, the greens and the socialists that it reached the result we are discussing today. i think that the attempt by some of the conservative group, but also the socialists, to present the candidates as those who have to pay the price is irresponsible, and i ask for our motions nos 12 and 14 to be approved, because the enlargement policy as it stands is a policy of peace. we want to stick to that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would point out to the ukip representative that under the constitutional treaty any country has the right to withdraw from the union. but no country has done so and no country will do so, not even the united kingdom, because being in the european union is much more advantageous than leaving the union. i'd be quite relieved to hear that. we are all familiar with the propaganda of colleagues who make speeches and then leave the chamber. it's not worth talking about. we all agree that we need to do the drilling now. it has been promised since maastricht. there were 12 countries then, now there are 27. so it's high time that we get to the bottom of this. this will also apply to all future enlargements. we have an amendment which gives the impression that croatia and south-eastern europe can now be excluded from this requirement. no, deepening must come before any new country joins the eu. it must also be made clear that the problems are not the fault of the candidates but of the eu itself. that has been said here. it is our task to inform and educate the public about the objectives and benefits of enlargement - also for our own countries. all the old countries have gained enormous advantages from the accession of the new member states. we export much more to the new countries than we import. so it is a win-win strategy, which unfortunately has not been communicated in this way to the public. we'll have to make up for that. i would like to mention one more problem, namely the ratification procedure for new accessions. if individual countries now also announce referendums on the accession of a new country, we shall have a problem. we must also deal with this issue. all in all, congratulations to the twins. that is the right course for the european parliament to take.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the enlargement of the european union is one of the most effective instruments of foreign policy and conflict prevention in the history of the european union. but we also face challenges and opportunities. after the enlargement of the european union to include romania and bulgaria, we are faced with the enlargement to include croatia, and in a later round to include turkey, but also the western balkans, which we must not forget in this context. the extension and deepening must be done simultaneously, even if this is a difficult task. the institutional framework must be reformed. our problem is not so much a problem of our citizens, nor is it a problem of the candidate countries, but it is a problem of the european elites. i therefore appeal to my esteemed colleague mr brok to follow the example of helmut kohl, the great european who had the courage to bring enlargement and deepening closer to our citizens. it is time for a new initiative to resolve the cyprus conflict, it is time for the isolation of the turkish north of the island to be ended. i am pleased to hear that the greek side of the island has agreed to this. but this also means that we need a new initiative led by the united nations to finally resolve the cyprus conflict and to dissociate turkey's negotiations with the european union from the cyprus conflict.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we cannot predict when we will be able to welcome new states into the european union, but three things are clear: firstly, bulgaria and romania will be followed by other countries joining the european union. secondly, all european countries which share our common values and meet the copenhagen criteria have the right to apply for membership of the european union. thirdly, the treaty of nice is not a suitable basis for future enlargements. it follows from all this that it is high time for comprehensive and profound reforms of the union of 27. this assessment was correct six years ago when the laeken declaration was adopted. today it is more relevant than ever. i believe that deeper integration is essential before further enlargement. in my view, the constitutional treaty is the key to the future viability of the european union. it is not appropriate to require the candidates to do their homework alone. i hope that next year we will be able to find a way out of the constitutional crisis that is equally acceptable to all 27 member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it will be crucial for the integration capacity not to pursue a minimalist reform of the european union say, just the institutional . there must be no retreat from the constitutional treaty in 2009. it is also crucial that the gap between the union and its citizens is bridged. it is not only the citizens of france and the netherlands who must be given a clear signal that they are prepared to draw consequences from the 'no' vote in both countries, and that these consequences will be taken into account in shaping european policy in the future. in my view, this means first and foremost that the creation of a social europe must finally be placed at the centre of european policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mr brok and mr stubb for their reports and to address the accession problem of croatia. croatia is a country which has made considerable progress in recent years and is therefore able to meet the political and economic challenges of the copenhagen criteria. it does not test the eu's capacity to absorb. the eu should therefore provide a swift, clear and targeted integration strategy for croatia. we cannot hold this country hostage to the internal problems of the eu and should remain flexible on the accession question. the eu has little to do with this. but for the democratic future of croatia, accession means a great deal!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unlike a colleague who spoke earlier, i do not consider enlargement to be an instrument of foreign policy but an instrument of european internal policy. the european union's enlargement process must not therefore overstep the frontiers of europe by including a large non-european or only partial european country such as turkey. the european union would then become a eurasian entity like the council of europe, complemented by a single market. this is not something that anyone who is in favour of a europe which is really capable of acting can hope for, one which can take the place of our nation states in essential functions. i am a firm federalist and i want this europe. on the other hand, we cannot close ourselves off from clearly european countries. i therefore object to attempts to interpret the brok report - which can be interpreted in one way or another - in such a way that adoption of the constitution is seen as an absolute condition for the accession of a central european country such as croatia. the european people's party, the cdu and the csu have only recently made it quite clear in their resolutions that croatia, because of its size, its central european orientation and its preparation, is an exception in this enlargement process and that it should have been in a context with hungary and slovenia. it is, so to speak, a leftover of the enlargement process which we are currently completing. not formally, but in fact. i therefore oppose any attempt to make interpretations here which would make croatia, as mr horáček rightly said, a hostage of the constitutional process. of course we need to push the constitutional process forward in this decade, of course we need the constitutional treaty, then we can go further by admitting clearly european states, such as the states of south-eastern europe between croatia and greece, to the european union in the next decade, with macedonia at the top, which already has candidate status. these are countries which are entitled to full membership and we are committed to this right. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to talk about communication. i too object to the concept of the foreign policy instrument in connection with enlargement, but with a different justification than mr posselt. i think we do have problems. we can see whole brigades of well-meaning world strategists with a trunk full of foreign policy instruments rushing through europe and beyond, with the motto: danger of civil war if you have a problem, come to the eu! it is clear why some citizens of the union say: thank you, i am not an instrument. i'm not here to solve foreign policy problems. that is not why i consider myself a citizen of the union. i want nothing to do with such a european union. the second point on communication: what is the relationship between the constant pleading that we must respect our commitments and our willingness to show toughness towards candidate countries in negotiations and in the run-up to negotiations in order to get them to accept and respect their commitments? then, in this debate, congratulations, mr posselt! all sorts of back doors will be opened, as to how you can get your special favourite into the eu without the previous adoption of the constitution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. there is no reason to speak of expansion fatigue in a reproachful tone. if you think that this is just a matter of facts, you should look into these communication problems.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. because of the importance of the following votes and the scope of reach, over the last five years, 5000 amendments have been tabled, 1000 amendments have been tabled, the document now has 1000 amendments, i would like to make two brief points. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr guido sacconi, very warmly for his work with the other shadow rapporteurs. it was a tremendous job, mr sacconi, and you did it very well, and i thank you very much for it. (applause from the centre) this brings me to my second point, mr president: what has happened in the trilogue? we have met five times with the finnish presidency of the council. it wasn't always easy, but there was a short break. the result is before you today in amendment no 191. that is the essence of our vote today, and in the spirit of a compromise involving as much of the european parliament as will never be seen again, i would ask you to give your assent to this motion. the other amendments, dear friends of the green group, will be obsolete or will jeopardize this important and valuable compromise.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i shall be very brief, because it is only a question of translation. in order to avoid any misunderstanding in the translation of the term production aid and to clearly link it to the german origin of the term 'production aid', i would like the following linguistic clarification: where the words 'production aid' have been used in the text, they should be replaced in the english language by the term 'production props'. in french, they are to be translated by aide matérielle à la production and in german by produktionshilfen.
we voted on amendment no 44 and the original text was even adopted.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i propose that we accept amendment no 29, but include a part of the original text, so that it would read at the end: 'which make up the european identity', as an addition to the socialist proposal. this would then be a combination of the two texts.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not in view of the recent developments in the negotiations on turkey, we must adapt our text accordingly. we have tried to do this on the basis of socialist amendment no 16 and have put it into a form which reflects the realities since the foreign ministers' council on monday. this motion is in print, or i can read it to you. the rapporteur and the applicants agree on this point.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
in writing. smes and their employees cannot be satisfied with all the results of the reach compromise. neither the ep's proposal on the facilitation of testing at low levels nor the concept of improved definition of exposure and use categories was taken up. this puts a heavy burden on businesses and reduces their competitiveness. despite these considerable weaknesses, i have agreed to the compromise because it also bears the signature of the committee on employment and social affairs, in which i was the author of the opinion. my reasons: the new directive replaces 40 individual regulations and thus creates legal certainty throughout europe. the knowledge of over 30 000 substances will be considerably improved, and safety risks for consumers and chemical workers will be minimised. the introduction of the safety report for substances below 10 tonnes of annual production was abandoned. this avoids the need for large documentation and costs, especially for smes. the protection of trade secrets has been greatly improved. in the case of particularly dangerous substances, authorization is granted indefinitely; supply bottlenecks can be avoided. the extension of the registration period for the first stage to three and a half years is also a considerable relief for the chemical industry. the success of the implementation of the directive, which will come into force in 2007, depends on the good cooperation between the central chemicals agency, national authorities and companies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. reach is an example of how not to do it. reach is not an example of better regulation in the eu. that is why i did not agree to the new chemical law. much will now depend on the management of the new chemical agency, but it is certainly in danger of becoming bureaucratic. over 5 000 pages of regulations are disadvantaging smes in europe in particular. the eu's repeated plea for better, simpler legislation is not met by reach. the consumer protection impact of reach is questionable and the additional burden on the european economy is certain. this is a major problem and we are well advised to avoid such legislation in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the basic concern of reach, the protection of people, the protection of the workplace and the protection of the environment is positive. this type of approach to the protection of man and the environment is, however, bad for europe as a whole. it leads to a massive build-up of bureaucracy, it means over-regulation on several thousand pages and it leads to long-term displacement of jobs and thus to the reduction of employment. i think we in europe should not vote for this. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. since the compromise 191 was better than the alternative on the table, the decision was difficult overall. i have therefore neither agreed to this poor compromise nor rejected the whole subject. i therefore abstained.
in writing. i have just voted against the globalisation fund. the commission's approach to helping workers who have lost their jobs as a result of international relocations through training and integration measures is correct. but the implementation leaves much to be desired. the fund is flawed in its regulatory policy, because it does not address the causes of redundancies but the symptoms. the approval procedures are too complicated. the bureaucracy is extensive and costs are considerable. it is not particularly suited to smes. the reduction of the threshold from 1 000 to 500 redundancies was rejected. in addition, for less than 1 000 redundancies, only 15% of the appropriations may be allocated instead of the 20% target. if a member state reports 1 000 redundancies in its smes over a nine-month period, the fund may be used. the employment committee had asked for 12 months. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available are used to the full. if the eu raises high hopes but does not deliver on its promises, this will lead to frustration among citizens. this is the position shared by my colleagues in the cdu/csu group in the ep.
it will be noted that you were prepared to express a different opinion at this point.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since our debate, which unfortunately took place in the framework of a mini-plenum, the situation in russia has continued to deteriorate dramatically. i can only appeal to president putin to protect the lives of the prisoners - the so-called yukos managers and all other political prisoners - so that they are not killed in mysterious ways too. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the territory of the member states. the world public will be watching president putin very closely. i thank mr horáček for including in this excellent resolution the important passage concerning the yukos managers, urging that they be finally released or at least treated in accordance with russian law and placed close to home. i would like to use this explanation of vote to make a personal statement. i do not know whether i shall have the honour of speaking again under your presidency, so i would like to thank you for the excellent way in which you have exercised your office of vice-president here.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
president of the commission. mr president, mr foreign minister, ladies and gentlemen, there were several reasons why the european council last june was an important milestone. i would like to mention one in particular. i believe that the council meeting last june has definitively put to rest the idea that there is some sort of arbitration between the union's institutional progress and the implementation of new policies. in the past, it was often suggested that if you spoke of the political agenda, the agenda focused on results, on concrete projects, this was a certain way of avoiding the institutional debate. if you spoke about the constitution, on the other hand, you were accused of navel-gazing, of being obsessed with the technical aspects. i think that idea is buried forever. the two-tier strategy adopted last june shows how the two aspects are linked and how they can be mutually reinforcing. indeed, as long as we have to work with a union that is less efficient and less democratic than we know it could be, our efforts to deliver the policies that our citizens expect will never be fully convincing. every time we advance policies that improve the lives of our citizens, it can only build confidence in a new step forward on the path of european integration. the finnish presidency has shown a perfect understanding of this reality, which is why six months of pragmatic and targeted progress has been made. these six months have shown that there is a real understanding of what parliament, the council and the commission can offer europe when they work together. the results are there: agreement on sensitive issues such as reach, the adoption of the globalisation adjustment fund - i am particularly proud of this because, as you know, it was an initiative of the commission - a rapid reaction to the lebanese crisis, the smooth preparation of the accession of bulgaria and romania - a sensitive subject! - and efforts to make the union's external policy more coherent. the conclusion is that progress has been made. we now come to the european council, this week's council, which will focus its reflection on the fundamental issues, on which the finnish presidency has already shown a determined and proactive union. first, i would mention innovation. the debate in lahti on this subject was of a high quality. this debate has left the impression of european leaders who are really committed to action in favour of innovation and i think it is fair to say that innovation is now at the top of the political priorities of the european union. i welcome this. as you will see from the annual progress report on the implementation of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, which we published yesterday, this is happening not only at community level but also at the level of the various national policies. i therefore believe that what the european leaders said in lahti was not empty words: there is significant progress in many member states. but if we want to bring about real change in the european economy, we cannot ignore the european dimension. we need to make more efforts at national level, but we also need to seize the opportunity to make the most of the european dimension. your institution, parliament, has also drawn attention to intellectual property rights, joint technological initiatives and standardization as areas requiring action at european level. i believe that the european council will take this work forward. as regards innovation, as regards energy and climate change, the council will no doubt prepare the ground for a european council in spring 2007, which i believe will be very important in this respect. i welcome the fact that the european commission has been able to participate, and in a very substantial way, in these efforts in the form of our proposal for a european institute of technology. the european institute of technology will not only contribute directly to innovation in europe, it will also be symbolic - it is true that sometimes symbols are very important - it will be symbolic, i mean, of the way in which the european union can show ambition and prove itself innovative. the support of members of parliament for the european institute of technology is both welcome and essential. i hope that parliament and the council will make the european institute of technology one of their priorities, so that it can be operational as soon as possible. i would like to thank the finnish presidency for its unwavering support for this great project for europe. immigration, then: no image struck more deeply in the minds of people this autumn than that of these men and women who were willing to risk their lives to reach the shores of europe. there was a real urgency to act and i am glad that europe has risen to the occasion. our comprehensive approach to immigration, coupled with closer cooperation at maritime borders and the strengthening of instruments such as frontex, further reinforces our response, which has been serious, far-reaching and with concrete implementation. the adoption of this approach by the european council would show unequivocally that this is a common problem, to which the union will provide a common solution. it is true that we still have difficulties in this area, but i believe that the approach we have, the overall approach that the commission has formulated, can be the solution for europe. we need to get to work now, consider this a long-term challenge. the use of internal and external instruments should therefore be coordinated by strengthening the dialogue with countries of origin, transit and destination, which implies greater attention to integration and also to intercultural dialogue. we must face the facts: to act effectively, we must have the right tools. it is therefore important to improve our decision-making to move more directly into action, and this in the area of immigration and, in general, in the area of justice and home affairs. i shall be very energetic in the sense of what the representative of the finnish presidency has just said. if the member states really want to show that they are determined to work together in the fight against illegal immigration, in immigration policy, in justice and security, now is a good opportunity to show that will: by making the decisionmaking process at european level more efficient, simpler, more practical, faster! it would make no sense to deprive ourselves of the institutional possibilities that already exist today. mr president, the final area i would like to raise is enlargement final in order of presentation but by no means final in order of importance. to some it might not seem that the issues we face this week show the policy of enlargement as being effectively delivered. i want to explain why this is wrong. in the first place, i find criticism odd when we are only a few weeks away from another step forward for enlargement. the vote of this house yesterday not only showed your confidence in two new commissioners but also symbolized the importance this parliament attaches to the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union. it also symbolised the key role this parliament has played in making enlargement possible and making it work. the benefits of the 2004 enlargement are clear to the europe of 25. i have no doubt that we shall look back on the move to 27 with similar satisfaction. however, the european council will focus on two issues: integration capacity and the accession negotiations with turkey. the commission's report on integration capacity is the recognition that there are legitimate questions about the implications of enlargement. everyone here knows that there has been no attempt by the union to conceal the consequences of enlargement. why should we, when the evidence before us points so strongly to the benefits? however, we must respect concerns and redouble our efforts to show how seriously the union takes its responsibility to ensure that enlargement works. yes, enlargement works for the incoming member states and for the european union they join. we should all accept a responsibility to engage more strongly in this debate. i have said very often that enlargement cannot proceed bureaucratically or even diplomatically: it has to be done democratically. we have to win the confidence of public opinion in europe. two weeks ago the commission made its recommendation on turkey. as a result, this week the council agreed to suspend negotiations on a number of key chapters. this is a clear signal that a breach of legal obligations cannot be accepted. at the same time, it is clearly in our own strategic interests to continue with the negotiation process. both sides need to play by the rules. we hope that the turkish side will show its willingness to fulfil its obligations. we understand it is important to show how credible we are when we speak about the conditions for enlargement. we need public support for enlargement in order to show not only that we are credible and that our commitments should be respected but also that we are fair and firm in the analysis of the progress the different candidate countries make in their accession process. we know that we need to keep candidate countries motivated. enlargement is such a positive force for progress that it is in all our interests that candidates pursue difficult reforms on a road that is bound to be long. croatia has made a good start and, if the reform effort continues, is likely to be the next acceding country. the countries of the western balkans have also made progress, and we have offered them a clear european perspective and should show them that we are serious about that european perspective for the balkans. we need a renewed consensus on enlargement that both recognises the strategic value of enlargement and ensures our capacity to function while gradually integrating new members. the commission will continue to stick to the core principles: respect for commitments made, a vigorous and fair assessment, and a search to improve the quality of the process. the enlargement process has shown itself to be as resilient as ever. in conclusion, i would like to say that i sincerely hope that the european council this week will confirm that an enlarged european union will be ready to face the challenges of today and tomorrow. thank you for your attention. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the president-in-office has said that we must look to the future. i believe that this is the task we face today, that we look to the future of the european union, but also to the future of europe and the world as a whole. the best presidencies are those which do not do anything spectacular but work with good will and determination. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. i hope that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow at the summit in brussels - the epp group will prepare it tomorrow afternoon - we will be able to give an orientation on enlargement. the last point made by the president of the commission was to ask us to send a signal that we are keeping our commitments. we are also open to countries which have a very normal claim to become members of the european union one day. this is true not only for croatia but also for the balkans, but it is subject to certain conditions. we must keep our commitments. pacta sunt servanda, but on both sides. i would like to express my sincere thanks to you, mr president, and to the commission for your foresight, your steadfastness and also for the fairness with which you have dealt with the turkish question. the european union is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam, but it is a party to the treaty of amsterdam. on the other hand, if turkey does not fulfil its obligations, as it does with cyprus, despite the fact that it promised to solve this problem and to recognise the customs union, which it has not done, we must not accept this as a matter of resignation, but there must be a message that expresses our position and also affects our own credibility. if we had not sent a signal to turkey, we would have lost our credibility, and who would have believed the end of the european union? the commission has therefore proposed and the foreign ministers have agreed on a very responsible approach, which has led to a good compromise. the european union must now be able to take in newcomers. i thank the finnish presidency for discussing in many bilateral talks how we can reach a solution to the constitutional question. i was glad to hear you say, mrs lehtomäki, that it seems that all governments agree that we need reform. this is a fundamental agreement to the content of the constitutional treaty. i would like to say, with all due calm and determination, that the epp group is in favour of the implementation of the reforms as set out in part i, and we also need to establish, as it were, the legal basis for the values we have described in part ii. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is the condition for what we, the european people's party, want to achieve. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was the proposal of the president of the commission to adopt a joint statement by the european council, the european parliament and the commission on 25 march. we think it is very good and we support it. we also say to the governments: if anyone opposes the involvement of the european parliament, then there will be at least a problem with our group. we want a joint declaration that commits us to reform and expresses our values. let me add one last thought on a subject on which we must develop our awareness, namely the issue of climate change. we can do whatever we want on this earth. but if we have climate change leading to a disastrous situation, and also to the impoverishment of wider areas, then our political efforts will not succeed either. the issue of climate change must therefore become a political priority for the european parliament and the other institutions as well. i wish the president-in-office of the council, the president of the commission and, of course, our president of parliament, who will always play a very active role, every success in our joint efforts and in our common europe at the summit.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are entering a decisive phase in european politics. the second half of this parliamentary term will be marked by the resolution of some of the questions and problems which are essential for the future of europe. i would therefore like to begin by saying on behalf of my group that we are ready to engage in constructive dialogue with the other institutions - with the council and, in particular, with the commission - in the second half of this parliamentary term, in order to find a common way out of the impasse in which the union finds itself. we have rightly had a number of criticisms in parliament during the first half of the parliamentary term, including from the commission. but we are prepared to work closely with the commission - also in the preparation and, above all, in the evaluation of the forthcoming summit - if one principle is true: the european internal market will be socially shaped or people will turn away from it. we have set out some guidelines at the congress of the party of european socialists, at which my colleague, poul nyrup rasmussen, was re-elected as our chairman, with the demands we are making at this summit. he will shortly be speaking for our group on the social dimension of europe. so, social security or people turn away. but what would happen if humans turned their backs? what if the european integration project is threatened with failure in its present state of stagnation? then the tasks you have described, mr barroso, cannot be completed. the cards are on the table. it's easy to describe what we have to do. climate change is not a topic that you discuss after hours. if the 2.3 billion chinese and indians claim the same energy consumption as we europeans and europeans or the americans, then the growth rates of their economies are the end of this planet. we can reduce co2 in europe as much as we want; the co2 emissions there will be many times higher than anything else. we must act and europe must take the lead. the cards are on the table. russia is not a pure democracy. we need to talk about russian domestic policy! but russia is a state that we need to solve all the international conflicts that burn under our nails. no iranian or middle eastern conflict can be resolved without russia. russia is threatened by north korean nuclear weapons. i am grateful to the finnish presidency for this. you have worked hard to prepare the partnership and cooperation agreement and to start the negotiations. i hope that the polish government will eventually come to see that we need this cooperation agreement and this partnership agreement. the international conflicts i have described, particularly the middle east conflict, are a real and acute danger. peace must be worked out with many clever steps. one of the steps we need to take to build a bridge to the destabilised neighbouring regions of europe is the accession perspective for turkey. what has now been decided is a correct decision. it is above all a signal to the turkish government that it is willing to continue negotiations with it. i appeal to the turkish government not to slacken in its reform efforts, not to give in to domestic tactics and say, let's do a short anti-european interim number, then we will get some more votes, and then after the elections we will say, we did not mean all that. this is not working! but we can't do it on our end, either, sending out a different signal every day. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. do you want the prospect of accession for turkey or do you not want it? so it's a bit of a struggle to find any argument to say that this is not going to work - the cyprus solution, so to speak - it's not going to work. therefore, a good decision by the commission, an inappropriate reaction from ankara. i hope mr erdogan will come to his senses. but overall, this prospect of accession is essential for the security of europe. i say that, by the way, even though i know there's a majority of people who are skeptical. but politics also needs to have the courage to say, "i know that people are skeptical and that my constituents don't see it that way". but then you have to do the work of persuasion and present the arguments and not give in to the day-to-day political opportunism that might win the next election. but to break the bridge that we are building to the islamic world when turkey reaches europe is much more dangerous than losing an election once. the cards for this summit are on the table. the problems can be dealt with. i have tried to describe what we can contribute as a social democratic group. (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is not yet time to assess definitively what the finnish presidency has achieved in the second half of 2006. we shall be able to do so next week in the light of the outcome of the summit. but i think we have to take a very salient point that has been particularly moving our work over the last few days, and that is the question: how do we feel about ourselves and about all that we have created over the last 50 years? are we prepared to defend this against those who want to join the union? i say this with great passion because i know from experience, particularly in talks with turkey, that although we talk about the same terms, we mean very different things. we must also make ourselves clear about what binds us together. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. but that is not how europe works internally, and it is not how we will be able to sell it successfully to the outside world. i am hearing again now that although eight chapters in the negotiations with turkey are being suspended, another chapter could be opened. we will not succeed if we do what caused us problems at the end of the last enlargement round, namely, if each council presidency wants to surpass the previous one in the number of chapters it has reopened or will close. we must define for ourselves clearly what we stand for and what links us together - i am not very much connected with mrs berès, as i have just said - we must clarify this internally and then we will be able to bring it out in the open. this should be the signal of the december summit and the finnish presidency.
president of the council. mr president, i recall that the ignalina nuclear power plant is due to close in 2009 and that there are certain safeguard clauses relating to this deadline. thirdly, the commission is responsible for deciding on safeguard clauses following a legitimate request from a member state, and it is therefore not for me to assess the use of the safeguard clause. as regards the reference to a new nuclear power plant, i would like to point out that this is a very long-term process which does not resolve short-term issues. the construction of energy networks, i.e. infrastructure in different directions, is therefore a very important step towards increasing energy security in the member state concerned.
president of the council. mr president, deforestation is one of the most significant contributors to the global climate change problem, accounting for about 20% of the total greenhouse gas emissions from human activities, i.e. about a fifth of the total emissions from human activities. the european union is committed to achieving the ultimate goal of the unfccc by limiting the global average surface temperature increase to a maximum of 2 degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels. achieving this objective will require a significant reduction in the overall amount, in line with common but differentiated responsibilities and capabilities. as tropical deforestation is a major contributor to total emissions, developing countries have and can play an important role in mitigating climate change by reducing emissions from deforestation and promoting sustainable forest management. such actions would also help those countries to adapt to climate change and would also have other beneficial effects. the eu therefore stresses the need to explore different options to reduce emissions from deforestation and to exploit synergies with other fora in this regard.
president of the council. mr president, the council has not reached a final decision on this specific question, so i am not in a position to answer it. but i am referring to the work that the european union is doing, for example, in the field of development cooperation, to curb deforestation and forest clearance. this issue has also been discussed at the nairobi climate conference, so its importance and weight have been recognised.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has not yet started the preparatory work on this matter. it shall take the necessary decision in good time to fulfil its obligations under the protocol on the enlargement of the european union annexed to the treaty of nice. but at this stage it is impossible to estimate exactly when this will happen. it should be noted that if the negotiated constitutional treaty enters into force, it will help to resolve the matter.
president of the council. mr president, it is a little difficult to assess whether it would be better to start quickly, but it must be remembered that these questions are all interrelated, the whole institutional package, which in turn is linked to the constitutional treaty, which includes the composition of the commission. i repeat that the council has not yet started its preparatory work.
president of the council. mr president, since the beginning of the year, the un special envoy martti ahtisaari has been actively advancing the negotiations between the parties, mainly using a bottom-up approach. in july, mr ahtisaari organised the first belgrade-pristina high-level meeting in vienna, attended by the presidents and prime ministers of both parties. belgrade and pristina expressed their completely opposite positions on the situation in kosovo. the european union's strategic objective remains to achieve a rapid and lasting settlement of the situation in kosovo without jeopardising the democratic process in serbia and the overall stability of the region. following the announcement that the serbian parliamentary elections would be held on 21 january 2007, special envoy martti ahtisaari stated that he would present the proposal to the parties immediately after the elections, as he did not want a solution on the status of kosovo to be used as an electoral weapon in the forthcoming serbian elections. the european union remains fully supportive of un special envoy ahtisaari and his efforts as leader of the political process for the future status of kosovo, as well as his recent efforts to prepare a comprehensive solution. it is in the interest of the union that the process should lead to a positive outcome. success is essential, as it would offer positive prospects both for the people of kosovo and for the general stability of the region. the european union is preparing its future presence in kosovo as part of an international civilian mission and preparations for an eu rule of law and police mission are under way.
you know that the people of kosovo have suffered a lot, so naturally they are afraid of the constant displacement. do you think this is the last of the postponements, that the final report will really be presented in february or march? what do you say to the fears caused by the plans for the partition of kosovo and the territorial claims against kosovo, as contained in the new serbian constitution?
the commission's vice-president mr president, i apologize for the delay. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be a matter of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to apologize. that said, i am all the more confused that i have to pay tribute to the excellent work of parliament on this very important issue of the directive on driving licences. i would like to thank mr grosch very much for his very high quality report. i warmly and sincerely thank him and the committee on transport and tourism for their support for the commission's proposal. the many reactions to this proposal during the legislative process show how much you care about this subject. this is understandable: the driving licence is the most commonly used diploma in the european union today. almost 300 million people rely on a driving licence for mobility and, of course, for their daily lives. the number of experts in the field, or those who consider themselves experts, is almost as high as the number of people who have a driver's license, and everyone has a different opinion on the subject. however, after the political agreement reached in the council last march and the vote in the committee on transport and tourism at the end of november, a broad consensus is emerging, confirming that the objectives proposed by the commission are shared by the other institutions. although the process took a little longer than expected, we are now on the verge of obtaining agreement with the council on a very sensitive proposal at second reading. we have clearly seen the need to apply the new comitology procedure to this proposal for a third directive on driving licences. this will improve the transparency of the process of amending its technical annexes. the informal negotiations between parliament, the council and the commission quickly reached agreement on this point. i therefore welcome very much parliament's amendments on this particular subject. i would like to take this opportunity, mr president, to recall briefly the three objectives pursued by this proposal for a directive on driving licences, and i will here refer to the very relevant remarks made by mr grosch. the first objective is to help combat fraud. a single model of driving licence, in the form of a plastic card, will eventually replace the 110 existing models. the administrative validity of the licence will be limited to ten years and may be up to fifteen years. we're going to strengthen the principle of one driver's license per driver and introduce an optional microprocessor. that is the fight against fraud, which mr grosch has very well mentioned. the second objective is to improve road safety. well, yes, we are introducing a full driving licence for the most vulnerable users of two-wheelers, namely moped drivers. we are introducing a gradual increase in access to motorcycles and heavy duty vehicles. we are giving a new definition of categories b and b+e for driving heavy car/trailer combinations and, finally, we are introducing compulsory initial and continuing training for examiners. this point seems to me particularly important. the third objective is to facilitate free movement. we reaffirm the principle of mutual recognition of driving licences within the european union. we are harmonizing the rules relating to the validity of driving licences. we are harmonizing the frequency of medical examinations for heavy goods vehicle drivers. in conclusion, i would say that the text of the common position, together with the amendments relating to the comitology procedure, is a very good compromise. i feel that the final text is balanced and that it is a real step forward compared to the current directive. thanks to the excellent work of mr mathieu grosch, we have taken a step forward in achieving our common objective of halving the number of people killed on the roads of the european union by 2010. if you allow me, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will take up the wishes of your rapporteur, mr mathieu grosch, that the member states do not wait until the last possible moment to introduce this european driving licence, which will be a strong sign of our european citizenship and of the responsibility that every driver takes when driving a car.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'll make this short. first of all, i would like to thank mathieu grosch in particular for his work. but first we have to make it clear to outsiders what he has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was, however, mathieu grosch who, in cooperation with his shadow rapporteurs, negotiated for weeks and months to get a proper common position of the council, acceptable at all. we must make this clear, otherwise the citizens will think that we are simply accepting the common position. no, we thank mr grosch and his colleagues for negotiating for weeks, so that the council has put forward a common position agreed with us. two other brief remarks: i am one of those members who opposed the compulsory exchange of passports and the time limitation of a passport. but we agreed that in the interests of road safety and the protection of identity cards against counterfeiting it was acceptable for citizens to exchange their driving licences after 26 years. some of us may not have to do that anymore if we're wise. in this respect, 26 years is a good compromise, and we can accept that. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we hope that many member states will put all these measures into effect earlier. i would like to ask you to ensure that the member states also implement swiftly what they have promised, namely the exchange of data on driving licences. we will only be able to combat driving licence tourism if the member states exchange the relevant data and know that they cannot issue a driving licence to this or that citizen because there is still a barrier to entry for him. so let us encourage the member states to build up the information network quickly.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur very warmly. i think he spent most of his time trying to find common ground with his colleague from the jarzembowski group. he did it, after all. it was the hardest part. i'm very happy for you. after a debate that began more than 10 years ago, at the beginning of the 1990s, the single eu driving licence in the form of a cheque card is finally becoming a reality, replacing the 110 different driving licences. it needs to be renewed every 10 or 15 years with the latest lighting. although no medical examination is required, it has been an accepted reality in italy for years. the eu driving licence contributes to road safety by preventing driving tourism. drivers who have been caught speeding or with alcohol in their blood and have had their driving licence revoked can now go abroad and obtain a new licence. this practice poses serious risks to road safety. the road-traffic offenders often avoid the months-long driving test and the urgent medical and psychological examination by going to poland or the czech republic. with the eu driving licence, that will no longer be possible. there is no longer any chance of all-inclusive packages that allowed alcoholics, drug addicts and speedsters to obtain a new driving licence abroad. this not only saved the street roadies from the tedious waiting times, but also the costly medical and psychological examination at a cost of 1 000 euros. given the high number of accidents caused by racing and drunkenness, this is an important contribution to road safety. in fact, sample checks revealed that 75% of german drivers with foreign driving licences had previously had their licences withdrawn because of alcohol or drug problems. the eu driving licence prevents this abuse, because thorough data exchange prevents it. unfortunately, my home country, germany, was on the brakes and after 15 years of decision-making, it also imposed a transitional period of 26 years until the holders of driving licences had to change their grey patches. this is not only a social injustice at the expense of future generations new drivers already have their second license due to the renewal deadline before the old ones even have to be changed for the first time but also another state tolerance of organized crime due to the delayed exchange of data. in the interests of road safety, and especially because of the long decision-making time, parliament and the council should have refrained from any transitional period and established a uniform system of validity for old and new driving licences. member states are free to reduce the time limits, so i urge you to do so so that the eu driving licence will become a reality in 10 years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the vote tomorrow will finally put the european driving licence under control. it took a long time, it was a compromise, but it was effective and it was a significant step forward. perhaps the most important advance is the end of the unspeakable driving tourism. for example, if a driver's license is revoked in germany because of alcohol on the wheel, it is easy to obtain a new one in a neighboring country for a small fee and then drive legally on european roads again. this scandal will be over. he's being dried. it got away with it, and that's a good thing. the free movement of cars in europe is a win. however, with over 110 different licence models, controls are more than problematic. the so-called "graue lappen" in germany, issued in the 1950s or 1960s, with a pretty youth photo that has been in the washing machine at least four times, is certainly a wonderful piece of nostalgia, but no longer suitable for identification at police checks. the 26 years of exchange now negotiated are too long for me personally - as they are for many other colleagues, obviously - because they are closer to a biological solution than to a real practical solution. it has been pointed out that member states can achieve this earlier. we'll see about that. all the accident statistics clearly state: most of the road deaths are among young men between 18 and 25 years of age on motorcycles. this is why it makes sense to have a gradual approach to obtaining a motorcycle licence. it saves lives and increases road safety. i should like to thank mr grosch, the rapporteur, on behalf of my group. you negotiated well! that is why there will be no transitional periods, no exceptions and no restrictions in the vote tomorrow, but we will support you wholeheartedly and with all our votes so that we can bring this to a successful conclusion together. thank you for your work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the need to renew personal identification documents, such as passports and identity cards, at regular intervals is probably a matter of course. not so with driver's license documents. although the name has changed several times and the photo is over 40 years old, some people still drive their old "lappen". does this not open the door to lawbreaking and to driving tourism? is this not often the cause of inconvenience at traffic controls? even the registration plates of motor vehicles registered in the eu have a recognition value. they thus contribute, even if only in a small way, to the development of a sense of european identity. the 110 valid driving licence models, on the other hand, reflect a patchwork of europe. is that what the critics of the directive want? it is time for a european driving licence in the form of a credit card. the council's common position reflects in essence the will of parliament and promises great progress in road safety. we should approve it tomorrow so that it can be implemented as quickly as possible. i am not sure why we are allowing member states such long transitional periods. i call on my home country, germany, to lead by example and to act more quickly on its own initiative. if all countries do this, the positive developments of the driving licence directive could be effective during the period of the eu's third road safety action programme, i.e. until 2010. unfortunately, the council's decisions are not always in line with the lisbon strategy. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. and if a b licence is sufficient to drive car and caravan trailers up to 4.25 tonnes under certain circumstances, but not to drive a more maneuverable motorhome, then i do not understand the logic. what a shame!
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for this enriching debate, which has confirmed the very broad support which the compromise negotiated between our three institutions enjoys today. i would like to congratulate all of you, and in particular mr mathieu grosch, your rapporteur, on this excellent result. i would like to remind you, in response to some of the negative remarks that have been made, that we are morally committed to a major objective, ladies and gentlemen: to halve the number of road deaths by 2010. so it is up to each one of you to measure your own share of responsibility in this regard. we have taken a comprehensive approach with the member states, based primarily on the quality of vehicles. we have, together with my colleague mr verheugen, drawn up a road map for car manufacturers to introduce gradually all the systems involved in the safety of the vehicle. secondly, as a second point of support for our approach, the commission adopted on 5 october 2006 a proposal for a directive on road infrastructure safety management. we want to ensure that safety is taken into account from the design stage to the construction stage for all users, including motorcyclists. the third point of support is obviously the personal behaviour of each driver and in this respect the text which you will have to approve tomorrow provides, in my view, a major element. i would like to stress once again, mr president, how much the european parliament has really taken the european interest into account in this matter. in proposing and securing significant projects - for example, the gradual replacement of old driving licences and the conditions for the implementation of gradual access to certain categories of vehicles - the european parliament has really shown, if necessary, its concern to promote the interests of european citizens. some concerns have been raised about motorcyclists. the safety of motorcycles is a matter of great concern to us. despite improvements in road safety in general, motorcyclists are the group most exposed to road accidents: one in five deaths on european union roads is a motorcyclist. it is to reverse this trend that we have emphasized in this directive the gradual access to the most powerful motorcycles. more experience, targeted training or a proper examination will help to achieve this. it's not about paperwork. on the contrary, it is being simplified, but it is logical that some training should be provided to motorcyclists. the training of motorcyclists is a vital point. an annex to the directive is devoted to this subject, annex 6, the content of which may change according to needs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement which will be put to the vote tomorrow is an important step in the framework of our road safety action programme. when we consider the 40,000 deaths - or fewer - that still occur on the roads of the european union every year, we can think that the european parliament is doing a very useful job, and that it is undoubtedly saving a number of lives with these new provisions. i therefore sincerely thank parliament and the rapporteur for the quality of the work they have done.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to present to you today the amendment to the regulation on double-hull tankers. the proposal aims to bring the regulation into line with the political declaration made to the international maritime organisation in december 2003 by the presidency of the european union on behalf of the member states and the european commission. that statement was extremely clear. it was intended to inform all the contracting parties to the marpol convention that no member state of the european union would allow oil tankers flying its flag to use one of the exemptions provided for in the convention, namely the use of single-hull vessels for the transport of oil. as regards the prohibition on the carriage of heavy petroleum products in single-hull vessels, the regulation in force today applies only to vessels entering waters under community jurisdiction. this means that a member state can theoretically, and contrary to the public commitment of 2003, allow the transport of heavy petroleum products in single-hull tankers flying its flag, i.e. one of the european flags, as long as these vessels operate outside community waters. this situation, ladies and gentlemen, is unacceptable. we can only imagine the consequences in a third country if a black tide is caused by an oil tanker flying the community flag, even though europe is providing its own protection! i would add that almost all the member states have already formally informed the international maritime organisation that they would not make use of this option. our political commitments to maritime safety vis-à-vis our partners must be made concrete and legally guaranteed. that's the point of this proposal. i would like to thank mr le rachinel and the committee on transport and tourism for their support.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the ppe group thanks the rapporteur for his report, which was drafted in a timely, clear and precise manner, and we can follow it. i also hope that the council will accept our amendment as promised, so that we can complete this dossier at first reading. mr president, you are quite right: we must abolish the still existing exceptional provision on the non-use of double-hulled tankers. i think the last sentence is quite classic, which we take over as an amendment from the rapporteur, who simply says that oil tankers carrying heavy oil, regardless of their flag - and therefore also beyond the member states - should only enter ports and port regions or anchor in areas under the jurisdiction of a member state if they are double-hulled tankers. this is important, because we have already had very difficult situations in the baltic sea, and i hope that what we said in 2003 - that heavy oils can only be transported in double-hull tankers - will now finally be enforced. if we are to conclude the commission proposal with the amendment quickly at first reading, we should remind the council that we have seven individual proposals to deal with next year in the erica 3 package. i hope that the council will work with us as quickly as it does to improve flag state controls, port state controls and liability. i am curious to see whether next year the council will have the same courage as the commission and parliament to take action against marine pollution.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not if you want to know the consequences and effects of bad and old tankers, you have to go to the breton or galician coast and talk to the coastal inhabitants. the names erika and prestige are remembered horribly there. the commission's erika packages were a sensible response to these disasters. this includes regulation 417/2002 on the accelerated introduction of double-hull tankers and the ban on the transport of heavy oil to and from european ports by single-hull tankers. the commission's proposal that tankers flying the european flag and carrying heavy oil should now be double-hulled is consistent and means a bit more safety on the sea. the commissioner, you see, parliament can readily accept and applaud your proposals. the commission should be given credit for such good and unobjectionable proposals just before christmas! if the international association of independent tank owners, intertanko, is not happy with the commission's proposal, the european parliament need not be sad. the rapporteur, mr le rachinel, to whom i would like to express my sincere thanks on behalf of my group, was well advised not to give priority to intertank but to maritime safety. i therefore expect that we will have a good vote in parliament tomorrow, and that will make our seas a little safer.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not so it's about these two changes. what's the evidence for the change in the quaestors? we had five quaestors at a time when parliament had 500 members, so in practice there was one quaestor for every 100 members. if we kept the 780 members we had planned, we would have a very large number. if we increase the number of quaestors to six, as the committee has proposed, that would be one quaestor for every 130 members of the house, so that is still a higher number than it has been for many years. i believe that the complexity of developments and problems arising within the house in 25 languages - i am now adding catalan and irish, for example - justifies, in terms of the procedures and decisions, an increase in this number from 5 to 6 for a certain period of time. the same applies to the increase in the number of deputy members of the committee. we now have - this is an undeniable fact - the highest number of members that this parliament is ever to have, in human terms, from january 2007 to mid-2009. this exceptional number of members is the reason why a higher number of members are expected to be appointed to committees for the same period. of course, this is not just about the procedure, but also about the fact that colleagues are now holding such a position and now the new bulgarian and romanian colleagues are coming, who are of course also entitled to such positions. so you would have to take that position away from some colleagues and give it to the new colleagues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there would be frustration and disappointment that you could avoid with this dimension. i admit that something may not have gone perfectly. we could have seen this aspect six months earlier and perhaps we should have seen it. it would have been more appropriate to discuss these matters calmly with all the groups in the house. the fact that the idea came to the responsible authorities very late, unfortunately, gave the impression that a meeting had to be held on monday and voted on on thursday. i ask for your understanding. in political life it can happen that an adequate idea is arrived at later than would be appropriate for the procedure. i would ask for your understanding and i am happy to admit that this fact was a little incomprehensible to some of my colleagues. but there was no malice behind it, no special background analysis, but it was only when the new situation was clearly defined that it was suddenly realized: this creates a new problem, one that has not been seen before. in conclusion, i would like to make this compromise: to increase the posts by two places for a limited period, but to stipulate that at the end of the period the situation will return to normal, in order to make an adequate proposal which is in line with the parliamentary procedure, and for which i ask for your agreement and understanding.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by eluned morgan, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy green paper (a6-0426/2006) - the report by werner langen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the strategy for biomass and biofuels (a6-0347/2006) and - the report by esko seppänen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the draft council regulation establishing a support instrument in the field of nuclear safety and security (09037/2006 c6-0153/2006 2006/0802 (cns)) (a6-0397/2006).
member of the commission. madam president, members have decided to hold a joint debate on the three reports by mrs morgan, mr langen and mr seppänen. this provides an excellent opportunity to discuss topics of key importance for energy policy just before the new year, topics that brought a great deal of inquietude last year. let me begin by addressing the report on a european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy. first, i wish to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mrs morgan, for her impressive work on the energy green paper. i also wish to thank and congratulate the draftsmen, mr zieleniec, mr wijkman, mr markov, mr ehler, mrs tzampazi, mr takkula and mr vlasák, for their contributions. this document is an important contribution to the commission’s work on the strategic energy review. your work over recent months has fed into the commission’s wider deliberations on the future of energy policy in europe. i agree that the european union needs an integrated, coherent and consistent european energy policy that maintains europe’s competitiveness, safeguards our environmental objectives and ensures our security of supply. i also agree on the nature of the climate change challenge. climate change provides the strongest encouragement for a new energy policy. energy accounts for over 90 % of carbon dioxide emissions in the european union, so we cannot tackle climate change without the right energy policies. i agree that the european union needs to show vision and determination to lead the world in accelerating the shift to a low-carbon economy. at the heart of this must be ambitious but credible targets for further reductions in greenhouse gases beyond 2012. without a functioning internal market, the emissions-trading system – the cornerstone of our efforts to deal with climate change in a competitive manner – will not work properly, nor will we achieve our aims of competitiveness and security of supply. therefore, the commission will keep up the pressure on member states to implement the legislation fully. this week, we adopted another package of infringement measures against 16 member states. at this stage, we are conducting infringement proceedings against 19 member states, and i believe that shows our determination really to implement the internal market. in addition, in line with the conclusions of the internal market report and the final report on the energy sector inquiry, the commission now intends to take action to address the remaining issues under the following headings: ensuring non-discriminatory access to well-developed networks, notably by looking at the issue of unbundling; improving regulation of network access at national and eu levels, which includes better cooperation at eu level between regulators; reducing the scope for unfair competition, through increased transparency and improved access to storage facilities; providing a clear framework for investment; and strengthening the focus of the public service obligation. however, the internal market can achieve its goal only on the basis of decisions taken by european citizens. the role of citizens is particularly important with respect to our energy efficiency agenda. this is an area where everyone can contribute to a more sustainable and secure world, and we welcome your support for the energy efficiency action plan. europe’s citizens can also make a difference to the role of renewables in our energy mix, but we cannot expect people to make the necessary shift unless the political and investment plan is right. that is why i agree with the need for a stable and long-term framework for renewables. climate change, globalisation and longer-term targets call for a renewed effort on the technology front. we all want to see europe lead the way in global research, which means spending existing research budgets better, getting them to work as a catalyst leading to increased industry research funding in the european union. the importance of the external dimension is also well articulated in the report. this year, our external policy has taken some very important steps: the establishment of the energy community and new agreements with several producer countries and transit countries, including kazakhstan, azerbaijan and ukraine. i would like to address mr langen’s report on a strategy for biomass and biofuels. first of all, i would like to thank mr langen for this valuable contribution and his great help to us in the commission as we look forward on the issue of renewable energy, including bioenergy. first, the eu, acting collectively, will need to strengthen the legislative framework for renewable energy, committing itself to the establishment of a stable regulatory framework based on ambitious targets. longer-term, more ambitious objectives up to 2020 will need binding obligations on the part of member states to guarantee burden-sharing and the development of an internal renewable energy market. at the same time, we should allow a certain degree of flexibility to enable member states to focus their attention on certain areas on the basis of their specific strengths and weaknesses. second, this framework will need to include legislative measures tailored to the specific obstacles facing renewable energy in individual sectors. for example, access to the grid is a key issue for renewable energy in electricity. the existing provision in this area may need to be strengthened. as regards heating, measures are needed to overcome unnecessary planning barriers to solar panels, for example, and to create a level playing field for district heating. in transport, it is necessary to take into account the fact that the extra cost for biofuels is greater than that of renewable energies in other sectors, but we need biofuels in the energy mix because they are a tool not only for combating climate change, but also in terms of security of supply. in looking at the detail of the report, there are three basic points that i would like to highlight. first, i welcome the emphasis the report places on the certification of biofuels to ensure that, whether produced in europe or abroad, they need sustainability standards. i understand the logic behind the proposed ban on the use of palm oil. however, as the work of the round table on sustainable palm oil has demonstrated, the environmental impact of palm oil production can display enormous variations, and this has to be taken into account. second, i share the view that second-generation biofuels are critically important. they offer better greenhouse gas performance and improve security of supply by widening the range of feedstocks from which biofuels can be made. however, let us not create a false opposition between first- and second-generation biofuels. first-generation biofuels improve security of supply, too, by reducing dependence on oil, and they also offer greenhouse gas savings compared with conventional fuels. moreover, first-generation biofuels serve as a bridge to the second generation. as second-generation biofuels come onto the market, they will take over the supply and distribution networks and plants of the first generation. finally, i would like to endorse the view that there is a need to do more to inform society in general, and farmers in particular, about the use of biomass and biofuels. we should particularly encourage farmers to venture into the new world of production of farm food and energy grasses. now i would like to address mr seppänen’s report on the council regulation establishing an instrument for nuclear safety and security assistance. i wish to acknowledge and thank mr seppänen for the efforts made by the rapporteur and by parliament as a whole to present this report in good time in order to have the new instrument available before the end of this year. improvement of nuclear safety has been an important part of our work in central and eastern european countries, as well as in the community of independent states, notably in ukraine and russia. but we have also made an effort in other countries, such as armenia and kazakhstan. it will remain essential in the coming years, as most of our neighbours and emerging economies rely heavily on nuclear power in order to satisfy their energy needs. because of the lack of time, i cannot comment on each amendment. however, i should like to highlight some important considerations that prevent us from accepting some of the amendments. i will not address the amendments on which we agree. in amendment 3, the rapporteur proposes to add a reference to the risk of nuclear weapons proliferation. the commission considers that this is not the objective of this instrument and that it is covered by the instrument of stability. amendment 7 states that ‘priority should be given to assisting nuclear installations and activities which are likely to have significant effects on the member states’. i understand the concerns that have led to this proposal. i would stress that the community primarily supports improvement in nuclear safety installations close to our borders. however, i should like to repeat that the new instrument has a global objective; a nuclear accident in one place is a nuclear accident everywhere, as direct or indirect consequences will affect the whole world. finally, amendments 27 and 28, limiting the scope of application of the instrument ‘only to nuclear facilities that are or were in operation in third countries on the date of [the instrument’s] entry into force’. while it is clear that we will not provide assistance to the design and construction of new plants in third countries, there should be a possibility to provide assistance vis-à-vis all existing plants. otherwise, we would lose an efficient instrument to influence nuclear safety abroad. to conclude, i once again pay tribute to the work of parliament and all the committees involved on the green paper, the strategy for biomass and biofuels and the nuclear safety instrument. i look forward to continuing our joint work for europe’s energy future. (applause)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am grateful that we were able to discuss the action plan on biomass and biofuels together with the green paper. the objectives of the green paper competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply are not being fully achieved, but at least all the measures to promote biomass and biofuels are being implemented. this is important because 50% of all renewable energy around 4% of total energy demand in europe is already generated by biomass. i'm grateful to the commissioner. 2006 was the year of concepts, and i hope 2007 will be the year of policy implementation. we look forward to your proposals, which you will present on 10 january, to put these action programmes and green papers into practice. we are convinced that we must not omit any measure which contributes to improving the security of supply in the european union. now biomass is a sleeping giant today. there is a huge potential only 1.6 million hectares of potential 97.4 million hectares are currently used for energy in the european union. we produce 90% of our biomass and import 10%. but we see that large producing countries like brazil and recently - for two years - the us are pursuing a targeted strategy to produce biofuels from their own cultivation. i think it's phenomenal that in the united states we've gone from zero to 19 million tons of biofuels in just two years. this should also be an incentive for us, within our means, to use alternative methods. no one wants to make it harder to produce quality food by relying too heavily on energy, for example by oversubsidizing. we have to balance the two. but there are opportunities. the committee on industry, research and energy, which was in charge of the subject, has therefore largely adopted my draft report. it is rare that a unanimous vote is reached at the end. we have therefore incorporated the concerns of individual groups into this report as far as possible. it's not too long, though, it's 81 digits. it shows that we are in broad agreement here in the european parliament on the further use of biomass. the commission's action plan describes the support measures and the priorities correctly. we have no problem with the plan of action. but we have put a number of points in our opinion, which i believe will be adopted by a large majority this afternoon, and we ask you, commissioner, and your staff to incorporate these points of parliament into your implementation strategy. it is important that we use all the possibilities of biomass - there is still a lot of unused potential, from wood to fast-growing plants - on both blocks, that we also ensure that modern technologies are used on the second level, such as second-generation biofuels, and that we ensure that all measures are taken to make the use of biofuels technology-neutral and to exploit the existing development potential. in a conversation two weeks ago, a well-known representative of the european automobile industry told me that, regardless of the mixing pressure and the 5.75% target for 2012, if we have the launching gun, if the framework conditions are right, if the technical standards are adapted, if we are given freedom of action, then we are ready to enter with the industry with billions of investments and not just aim for a 5.75% target. the european automobile industry believes that it is possible to reach 15% within 10 years, provided that investment security is provided. that's our approach to doing everything. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked on this. i would like to thank the other committees. there were 187 amendments and 122 amendments in the opinions, and all the members had a good debate. we have now had a few separate votes, and there is still some unfinished business in the vote. but overall we can be satisfied, thank you very much! i hope that the commission will receive a directive from parliament on how to proceed.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the econ commentary is by its nature structural. we have seven points to make. firstly, we want an energy policy approach that ensures affordable energy prices. secondly, we support an integrated approach to energy policy which takes into account the objectives of security of energy supply, security of competition and environmental sustainability. thirdly, the dependence on energy imports does not allow for ideological blind spots. we want a non-discriminatory energy mix. fourthly, we see the completion of the internal market as a central point for ensuring security of supply and affordable energy prices. fifthly, investment in networks and capacity, and investment in co2 and low-carbon energy, must be facilitated and accelerated. sixthly, we support the commission in its consistent action against competition infringements to ensure fair competition. seventhly, we do not want to burden our energy policy with unnecessary bureaucracy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the existing instruments need to be used more efficiently and existing european law needs to be fully transposed into national law.
draft opinion of the advisory committee on rural development. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by congratulating mr langen on his balanced report. as the author of the opinion of the committee on agriculture on this report, i am pleased to be able to make a few brief points. bioenergy will be central to the energy mix of the future. in many areas it can and will make an important contribution to energy security and to reducing our dependence on foreign imports, to climate protection and to employment and the economy in europe's rural areas. the committee on agriculture attaches particular importance to the introduction of an eu certification system. on the one hand, it is necessary to avoid additional administrative burdens for local producers by linking up with existing schemes, such as cross compliance. at the same time, biofuels imported from third countries should also be certified according to strict ecological criteria in order to ensure a positive environmental impact. in the case of biofuels, the available funding may not be allocated as a priority to research on second generation biofuels. there is also a considerable need for research into first generation fuels.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we had the situation in january 2006 at the beginning of this debate, as mrs morgan has pointed out. it has become clear that europe's dependence on energy is enormous. in 2000, europe's energy dependence was 50%; in 2030, it will be around 70%. this means that the issue of security of supply is taking on a new, dramatic importance. it also means that new priorities must be set in foreign policy and new consequences must be drawn in the matter of safeguarding and using our own energy resources. finally, it also says that the question of aligning these three objectives - security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness - needs to be rethought. i believe that the point is not just to put forward new ideas and concepts, but, as mr langen has already said, to make sure that reality is changed bit by bit. we need to put more emphasis on the question of implementation and change. what is the use of all the proposals if the reality is only limited? i am therefore very pleased that we have introduced a more realistic approach in this report. we cannot ask investors to be reliable, we cannot ask companies to invest more, if we do not offer reliability and long-term viability in politics. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this means, for example, that we have to look at the unbundling of property rights. let us implement stage one first before we fire stage two, because i have my doubts whether the expropriation or nationalization of networks is the right solution. not one solution will be the answer to the problem, but diversity. energy efficiency, yes, renewable energy, yes, but we also have to recognize that these are limited solutions to our problem. the mouse won't bite the thread. if we are talking about reducing co2, we must also say that we should invest more in nuclear power. we do not want to see any kind of thought-blocking on either side of this issue, but openness, diversity, diversity, flexibility and realism.
the commission has already done so. we all know that energy is the lifeblood of the european union. unfortunately, we only realize that sometimes, on sundays. i think the eu as a whole is very naive about energy. energy policy is still fragmented, with member states pursuing different strategies. the spring energy summit has failed, that's clear. the eu-russia summit, which was important for us and also included an energy component, has failed on polish beef. there are ideological differences over nuclear policy, these are things that are holding us back. there are important regions in the world which could be key suppliers for us, such as central asia, which we have not looked at with much enthusiasm. china - this has been mentioned several times in the debate - is building a lot of strategic alliances around the world that are specifically about this issue. on the other hand, we have a very high dependence on oil and gas, we do not have enough interconnectors for a real european energy market, as we saw recently with the blackout this year. i think that this is a very bad balance sheet. we therefore welcome the fact that you, commissioner, are putting forward more action plans, that the german presidency will make energy a priority, and that countries such as finland, for example, are taking a very unideological approach to energy policy, but are nevertheless very successful in doing so, investing heavily in biomass and at the same time in nuclear power, because they have clearly recognised the signs of the times. in particular, i also welcome the fact that, with the biomass action plan, commissioner, you are likely to make a significant contribution to energy diversification, to reducing dependence on other regions of the world and to the lisbonisation of our entire eu agenda. i am thinking in particular of the agricultural plan. the plans are on the table. but now the member states are being asked to stick to these plans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we have very different reports on the table as regards energy strategies. the morgan report and the langen report are, in my view, actually dealing with a positive future and a paradigm shift in the energy industry, whereas the seppänen report is actually dealing with the cleanup of old bottlenecks. i would like to concentrate on the seppänen report and say that i do not accept what is being suggested in this report, since i fully agree with mrs morgan. nuclear safety is and remains more fiction than reality. if we look back at the past year and review the major events that have made us listen, we must say that this realization should finally be taken into general awareness in the european union. we have been engaged in a futile conflict with iran, which is threatening to build the atomic bomb. we have been shaken by the nuclear test in north korea and can only conclude that the non-proliferation pact has failed. we have the forsmark nuclear power plant in sweden in the european union. sweden is a nation that says it has the safest nuclear power plants. swedish surveillance confronts us that we were only 18 minutes away from passing through this reactor. this incident has not even been discussed at european level, let alone dealt with. we have taken on a great responsibility in cleaning up the aftermath of the chernobyl accident, but what do we find? incompetence, corruption in the shelter implementation plan, and no one really knows how to proceed there. we also have a polonium affair. large quantities of polonium - a highly radioactive substance - are being stolen from the russian nuclear cities and transported across europe, and no one knows how. so do not tell me about nuclear safety, but let us talk about nuclear insecurity!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the various reports on energy are actually quite typical of this european parliament. it's got a lot of stuff in it, and it's got a lot of real stuff in it. but at their heart these reports are problematic. the energy mix is a recurring theme. this means that the nuclear energy will continue to be used, and nuclear energy is and will remain false and dangerous. when will the various parties responsible finally draw the consequences of chernobyl and the recent near accidents in sweden? the only correct answer is immediate nuclear phase-out! the eu is failing to promote research, energy efficiency and renewable energy. it is scandalous that the 1.6 billion euro spent on the arms race in space is twice as much as the money spent on the energy transition. the german foreign minister keeps talking about 'energy foreign policy'. this shows that the eu has global political ambitions, and this at the expense of others. we need an immediate nuclear phase-out, massive promotion of renewable energy, energy research instead of arms research and cooperation in the field of energy foreign policy.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission has already done so. let me say a few words from the point of view of the committee on foreign affairs. the european union is no longer an island of bliss. russia is using energy as a political weapon, the situation in the middle east and the gulf region is uncertain and none of us knows what the political situation and thus the security of energy supply will be in two or three years' time. when you see energy-hungry china winning energy rights in darfur, hosting an africa summit, joining nigeria, making a $100 billion energy deal with iran, then we must be very concerned about affordable energy supplies, which are crucial for the economic and social development of our continent, for jobs and much more. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. this gives a higher level of security. but it also shows how necessary the constitutional treaty is to create an energy competence so that we can actually do what we're talking about here.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the three rapporteurs for their good work. but i hope that the two colleagues will forgive me for dealing specifically with mrs morgan's report. it is an excellent report which shows the productive cooperation between the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. i think we are going to send a very clear signal to the commission in parliament today. the commission should not ignore this signal when it presents its energy package in january, in the interests of continuing the really good cooperation in the field of energy policy. for example, the report calls for a binding 25% target for renewable energy by 2020. the commission seems to be quite open to a binding overall objective. that's good. but that's not enough. the morgan report also calls for binding sectoral targets. we have electricity and biofuel targets. but we must set these targets beyond 2010. we haven't had any bad experiences so far. we saw in 2001 with the electricity directive, which contained clear objectives, that we had achieved a new breakthrough in the member states. firstly, we must not jeopardize that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we'll gladly give you until january. that's not the point at all. but we, the parliament and the industry in this area, which has really put its faith in you, expect - and this is stated in both the langen report and the morgan report - that a directive will be put forward here. i ask the commission to take its responsibility and act accordingly.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. as the shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment on the strategy for biomass and biofuels, i would like to make two points on this report: first, it is of great importance that sustainability is prioritised at all stages of biofuel production. but we also need to define standards for cultivation and processing, with the balance of greenhouse gases throughout the production cycle as the main criterion. the second point i would like to mention is the energy efficiency of biomass. the main criterion here must be how many kilowatt hours per hectare can be harvested per year without neglecting sustainability. the increased demand for fossil fuels and the rapid price increase associated with it make it important that the share of renewable energy increases rapidly in order to reduce the increase in the price of fossil fuels in the future.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council will continue its work, in close contact with the european parliament, to ensure that agreement is reached quickly on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on common standards and procedures for returning illegally staying third-country nationals. the council recalls that agreement on this proposal is one of the priorities set by the council and the commission in the action plan for the implementation of the hague programme to strengthen freedom, security and justice in the european union. the council will do all it can to contribute to this objective and will bear in mind the role of the european parliament in agreeing this proposal.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission will continue to encourage the council in all appropriate fora to make progress on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on common standards and procedures in member states for returning illegally staying third country nationals and to intensify negotiations with the european parliament on this proposal, with a view to reaching an agreement by the end of 2007. the commission recalls that agreement on this proposal is one of the priorities set out in the council and commission’s action plan implementing the hague programme on strengthening freedom, security and justice in the european union. the european commission is open to discussions on improvements to the proposal. in doing so, the commission will, however, remain committed to maintaining the dual objective of the directive: to be an efficient instrument of return policy and, at the same time, an efficient protection instrument for the third country nationals involved. moreover, the commission will propose to include the implementation of legislation in the field of return, in particular this directive, as one of the priorities for the strategic guidelines, for the intervention of the return fund in the period 2008-13.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i signed up for a two-minute speech, but i don't need that long. i would like to stress a few points specifically on the introduction of the european small claims procedure. firstly, it is important that the law should be interpreted in the german language in case of doubt, since this was the european parliament's working language throughout and the council and commission were also guided exclusively by this in the many trilogues. it is also important that member states take full advantage of this procedure and therefore make use of the possibilities offered by modern means of communication. member states should allow and encourage means of communication such as telephone, e-mail and videoconferencing. another important simplification is that the translation of form d must be carried out by a person authorised to produce translations in one of the member states. this explicitly excludes expensive certification and the need for certification, such as by a notary. i would like to emphasise that in all decisions by the court of justice in the small claims procedure, it must never be forgotten that it is a low-cost, fast, simple and citizen-friendly procedure. anything to the contrary is therefore contrary to the objective of this regulation. i therefore ask all members to support this new civil procedure, which is identical throughout europe and which is friendly to citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we would like to add a short addition in the middle of the paragraph, 'as part of the 2007 energy package'. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 a.m. and resumed at 9.30 a.m.)
a writer. the commission is not the military coup in fiji has brought a country into the world's public eye that is taking a tragic turn. the economic situation in fiji has also deteriorated as a result of the eu sugar policy. meanwhile, according to germany's radio, transfers from iraq are now essential to the economy of fiji. they provide for entire families and village communities, and now more money is flowing from iraq to fiji than the local sugar industry makes. how did this happen? there are a lot of mercenaries from fiji working in iraq, making their money there and then coming back as people, some of them severely traumatized. the military is playing a role, and it is becoming independent in a way. there is always talk of an ethnic conflict in fiji. on the surface, it may be an ethnic conflict, but at its core, it is a question of power. which chiefs are in charge? and this battle between different clans is going on. this coup is basically just an indication that the situation is not stable. this is also due to the fact that this is a post-colonial conflict. we remember: the british colonial administration has brought indians from the subcontinent to fiji since 1879 as labourers - mainly for the cotton industry and sugarcane plantations. so this is one of the dominant conflicts between the different ethnic groups. if we say that the eu condemns this military coup - and i stress this - we must also admit that the eu has contributed significantly to the causes of this conflict in fiji. that too should be considered.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not my home country of bavaria has had close relations with fiji for decades. the hanns seidel foundation has been supporting democracy projects there for decades, and a former member of our house, the late minister of state, fritz pirkl, has been a champion of democracy in fiji like few others. that is why it is truly shocking to see that only six months after the democratic elections in may, there is already another such brutal military coup taking place, which we cannot condemn strongly enough. we must nevertheless be clear about one thing: the overwhelming majority of the parliament elected in may and all the major democratic forces, with the regrettable exceptions mentioned by mr szent-iványi, are on the side of the democrats there. but the ecclesial communities, the various religions, the great council of chiefs - that is, the representatives of the traditional structures - are also clearly on the side of the democratically elected prime minister. we as the european union must use all our authority to restore freedom and the rule of law to the fiji islands. that is why there must be no leniency towards these tyrants and dictators. therefore, funds other than humanitarian aid must be frozen. but we must also apply all our political pressure to restore democracy and freedom to this beautiful archipelago without delay.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when i was in fiji last year with mrs carlotti and two colleagues from the acp-eu assembly, the headline of the main newspaper on the day we left was: 'army: no more coups'. unfortunately, almost two years later, this has once again been overtaken by reality. for the fourth time in 20 years. this country has inherited from the colonial era a highly sensitive composition of the population: only a narrow majority of the indigenous fijian population against a very strong minority of indians, who are economically dominant. we must make it very clear that the only way to achieve a balance of interests between these groups is through a comprehensive interethnic dialogue and not through military force. that is why we must make it clear to the military that they must return to their barracks immediately by stopping financial aid which would not benefit the people but would only make the work of the government easier, by imposing travel bans on the coup plotters and by supporting countermeasures by the pacific forum countries. i do not think that in the specific case - which mr pflüger has mentioned - the sugar market regulation has brought about this coup. i think that, regardless of the reform of the sugar market, the ownership situation in this country is very problematic because those who run the sugar industry, the indians, have only borrowed the land from the indigenous population and then there are always problems when it comes to renewing the leases. i believe that the eu policy of sugar regulation has not contributed to this coup. that's what i wanted to make clear.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the un is an organization that enjoys a high degree of credibility in the world in the matter of peacekeeping. it is extremely important that this reputation be preserved. when we hear shocking reports of rape and sexual abuse, unfortunately, we must also assume a high level of cover-up, also given the fact that there are reports of a culture of silence within the un missions themselves. i am convinced that only a zero tolerance strategy can succeed. this means that the commanders on the ground must be able to send the victims home immediately, with the sending state undertaking to prosecute them in criminal and disciplinary proceedings at home. for the individual soldiers, many of whom come from developing countries, such a deployment is also financially attractive. if word gets out that examples are actually being made, people are being sent home and consequently the money is not being paid, that is probably the most effective way to reduce such incidents in the future. but it must also be clear that superiors who tolerate this will no longer be available for such missions in the future.
a writer. the commission is not december 10 was international human rights day. in many countries, this was not a holiday but a day of mourning. the same is true in burma, where brutal assaults, killings and forced labour are commonplace. hundreds of thousands were displaced or fled riots. for the first time in 18 years, there was a change in government with a personnel exchange in the armed forces. the junta leader, general than shwe, stayed, as did his deputy maung aye. the eu noted that massive violations of human rights continue. recently, burmese were forced to build police stations and military buildings against their will. workers had to walk through mined territory as human sniffer dogs. this perfidious forced labour must not be tolerated. the international red cross also suffered a negative increase. he was banned from working. it had to withdraw from the regional offices and leave the population without medical care. in principle, outside help must be provided to the burmese people, but this aid must reach the people directly and not fall into the hands of the regime. in burma, 30% of children are malnourished, and the country is the second largest producer of opium. thousands are political prisoners, and sakharov prize laureate aung san suu kyi has been under house arrest for ten of the past 16 years. large ethnic groups are being harassed and any opposition is being stifled in its infancy. we call on china and other countries to finally stop supporting the military junta and to join in international efforts to bring about positive change in burma. the action of the asean countries against the rulers is an important and necessary step. burma needs a road map to democracy, to institutionalize human rights and to adopt a convention that will initiate steps towards the establishment of democracy. the eu, commissioner, must become much more active and perhaps even impose sanctions to put an end to the violence.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not a brutal, totalitarian military dictatorship, corrupt rulers, opium trafficking, displacements - at the moment we have over half a million internally displaced people - the oppression of many peoples, not least the karen. all this has been the tragic situation in burma for more than 40 years. but there are two new developments which need our attention. firstly, asean has finally decided to take a tougher line, and we can only encourage and support them in this. finally, the asean countries are doing their duty and are beginning to put pressure on burma. secondly, it is regrettable that india is becoming more and more deeply entangled in an evil partnership with these military rulers. we call on the world's largest democracy, india, to take its democratic responsibilities seriously and join asean and the european union in supporting democracy and the rule of law in burma and not to become a comrade of one of the worst regimes in the world.
president of the commission. mr president, last week’s european council was an important demonstration that europe is moving decisively forward for results. it showed a europe of consensus and progress, the right kind of europe to build for the future. prime minister vanhanen has given you a comprehensive overview of the results of the summit, to which i fully subscribe. the issues addressed – enlargement, immigration, innovation, climate change – are all long-term issues which require determined, ambitious, persistent action at the highest level. they are not one-minute wonders which hit the headlines for a day and then fade away. the momentum and focus which the european council can provide is central to their success. so i believe that prime minister vanhanen and the finnish presidency are to be congratulated on holding fast to a clear direction for the union: a europe of results that is concentrated on delivery. i think it illustrates a general trend towards a consistent approach, building ambitious policy reform for europe year on year, an approach better suited to the kind of consensus policy agenda we have today. another requirement for making this work is partnership. the achievements of the past year are generally shared achievements of the council, the parliament and the commission. i would like to underline the contribution of the european parliament. at the european council meeting we expressed our gratitude for the role that president borrell fontelles has played during his period in office, the role he has played while defending the european parliament in a responsible and constructive way, taking the approach of a good partnership with the council and commission. i think the past year has seen a new phase in the way the european union operates. we have got away from the idea of the union as a zero-sum power game. on a whole series of dossiers the past year has shown that this is not how the european union works. it works through a constructive exchange between a unique mix of institutions producing, hopefully, a win-win situation for everybody. if you look at what has really happened in concrete terms on the services directive, on enlargement, on energy, on reach (we have just witnessed the signature of the reach regulation), on the seventh research framework programme (the biggest ever, with a 40% increase in real terms), on the new system for schengen (especially important for new member states), on our response on lebanon, on our response on the congo (where the european union was by far the biggest contributor to the successful democratic elections, the first ever in that important african country), on all those issues and on several others we have seen the three institutions much more focused on delivering results to the citizens of europe and, hopefully, much less on brussels turf wars. i think that we can learn some lessons here as we deepen the debate over the future of europe next year. today i would like to concentrate on three areas concerning the european council. firstly, on what i call a renewed consensus on enlargement. the commission’s report on integration capacity was praised and, i believe, succeeds in demonstrating that rigour and fairness are at the heart of how the enlargement process works, that europe is not enlarging by default. there is a common understanding that we need to combine the strategic vision of enlargement – our open europe – with the capacity of integration of the european union. for us, enlargement is not only an important policy in itself, it also embodies some core principles of the union: that we are forward-looking, open, rules-based, fair and grounded in public consent. the consensus shows that strict conditions must be met, but we must keep the momentum moving forward in relation to our existing negotiating partners and give new impetus to the aspirations of the western balkans. this was clearly underlined during the european council meeting. it also helps to remind us why, with the right preparation, enlargement is a win-win policy, making europe stronger, more prosperous and more successful internally and globally. i am glad that the european commission was able to provide the european council with the right groundwork to make this consensus possible. secondly, in the area of migration the european council successfully translated common concerns into common action. we have taken real steps to help prevent and address the crisis we saw this autumn. in particular european union leaders recognise that it was not enough to manage the problem. they acknowledge, rather, that it had to be tackled at source with a new emphasis on development. i am particularly happy that the council agreed to the european union africa summit next year, which will provide an excellent platform for dialogue. but we should not need the personal tragedies we saw on our television screens this autumn to spur us into change. we need to give ourselves the right tools to save lives, fight terrorism and tackle crime. it is true that we would have liked the european council to have gone further in the streamlining of the decision-making process in the area of justice and home affairs. i have to tell you very frankly it is regrettable that some member states oppose the proposal of the finnish presidency, supported by the european commission, to make use of the passerelle clause that is possible under the current treaties. i have to underline once again that we need a more efficient decision-making process in the area of justice and home affairs in the european union, and not only in that area. thirdly, on innovation, i am also pleased to have the support of the member states for our proposals on innovation and the european institute of technology. i know that parliament shares the conviction that the innovation agenda is central to a competitive europe and i look forward to our working together on this in the coming months. concluding next year would mean that the european institute of technology could start its work in 2008. this should be our common goal. over the last six months we have seen the european union delivering, showing that it is serious about the twin-track strategy of a europe of results to move europe forward, that concrete projects are a way to fulfil the eu-grade projects. we have a springboard to take us forward into next year, with a wide range of new programmes now negotiated and in place, such as the framework programme for research, which i have just mentioned, and the globalisation fund which was also approved, not to mention the very important cohesion agenda. if you look at three key areas – economy, energy and climate, and external policy – you can see the european union delivering real change on issues that matter for citizens. on the economy we have had four quarters of significant growth in jobs this year. the fruits of economic reform are starting to be felt, but we should not sit back. last week’s annual progress report on the lisbon strategy showed how much is to be gained from pressing on with the commitments made in the national reform programmes. on energy and climate change, the commission is now finalising its proposals and we have received a clear signal from the european council. therefore the report adopted by parliament last week on cleaner, greener energy was excellently timed: it will help us shape our final recommendations and confirms our own conviction that citizens will not thank the european union for timidity in this matter. the scale of the challenge demands a credible and ambitious response. finally, on external policy, we are starting to see the fruits of a new coherence and determination in that policy. in various parts of the world and on a wide range of issues – lebanon, congo and the results achieved at long last with our russian partners on the siberian overflight issue – the past six months have seen the european union showing the right mix of political, economic and aid policies. the result has been a positive european contribution to global issues. while we recognise that a lot more has to be done, it is fair to acknowledge that some progress has been achieved. last june we agreed our twin-track strategy of a europe of results. at the european council meeting we recognised that this kind of policy is going in the right direction. we made this a natural way to progress on the future of europe and hopefully on the settlement of the constitutional question. we have to say once again that the europe of the future cannot be built with the tools of the past. we cannot fulfil all our ambitions for europe and concrete results for citizens with the tools and instruments of the past. we need the democracy and efficiency offered by the constitutional treaty. at the summit, chancellor merkel made it clear that the time for general debate on the future of the constitution is over and that she will be focusing on precise questions with member states in order to determine the room for manoeuvre and the best time for making progress. it is my impression that there is a gathering momentum and a degree of willingness among member states to work constructively to find a way forward on the issue of institutional reform. the report made by prime minister vanhanen to the european council was a very important contribution to the work that should now continue under the german presidency. the european union is well placed to take a decisive step forward in 2007. let us show that we are up to the challenge. i look forward to working closely with the incoming german presidency and i should like to thank once again the finnish prime minister, mr vanhanen, and all his team for their very serious, very committed and very energetic contribution to the progress of europe. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by congratulating you on your presidency, mr president-in-office, on behalf of our group. you have not only succeeded, but what has done us the most good - and perhaps you have to be a country like finland to do that - has been the goodwill with which you have led the european union. we hope that this will be the case for all subsequent presidencies. thank you for your commitment to our common cause, europe! we have achieved successes during your presidency of the council: reach has just been signed and we have adopted the seventh research framework programme and the services directive, even though we know that the services directive - but also reach and the seventh research framework programme - have been followed by other presidencies with the european parliament. we as a parliament can also take a little pride in the fact that we are taking an increasingly leading role in legislation - the president of the commission has just emphasized this again. you described our difficult relationship with russia. it's a difficult partnership, but we say it's always a partnership. we also say: we do not want to secure our energy supply and sacrifice our human rights in the process. we want both. we need orderly relations with russia, and we remain an advocate for human rights in russia, in europe and all over the world. we must not play with the idea that there could be bilateral treaties between member states of the european union and russia. there can only be a joint agreement between the european union and russia. i want that clear. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to say very firmly on behalf of our group that we want partnership, if possible friendship, with turkey. turkey is an important country. we do not want a clash, a collision or a crash with turkey. we're partners and friends. but turkey must also fulfil its obligations, and that is why the path we have taken on the commission's proposal - you as the council presidency, we as parliament - is a good path we are taking together. in the neighbourhood policy, some clarifications have been made. we must realise that not all countries with a european orientation can necessarily become members of the european union. but we say, we want good neighborhood. the neighbourhood instruments with the countries to the south and east of the european union have been adopted - a great success. the development policy instrument for the countries of asia and latin america was also adopted. the instrument of democracy and human rights is precisely what gives us the possibility of acting without the consent of the states concerned. this means that we can support democracy and human rights anywhere in the world, including financially. i think these are very good developments. the constitution has played a role, both in your remarks, mr president of the council, and in those of the president of the commission. the epp group, for its part, is saying with all the determination that no one should be mistaken: we want to see a result before the european elections in terms of ratification of the constitutional treaty, in terms of reforms, but also in terms of the common values that unite us. i hope that the joint declaration of 25 march, that is to say the declaration of the european council, the european parliament and the european commission, will already indicate the direction in which we are going to take this european union into a good future. it was about immigration. perhaps most importantly, we must commit ourselves not to accept the misery and death of people on the borders of the european union and to open our eyes to the plight and concerns of the countries south of our borders. if we can really make a small contribution to helping people to find a perspective in their own countries, with the support we are providing, and with the dialogue that will then, i hope, be intensified at the african summit, then i believe we are moving in the right direction. i would like to conclude by saying something rather personal. the group of the european people's party and european democrats decided last week to elect a new president on 9 january, so that today, after seven and a half years - that is 90 months - is my last speech as president of this great, sometimes difficult group. but that is also the case in the other groups. mr president, on 15 january the newly elected president of our group will then officially thank you on behalf of the epp-ed group for your convincing work, while i would like to do so on my own behalf today. president borrell, we have always worked together very consistently and always on a very sincere and - i would like to say from my point of view and i hope you can confirm this - very friendly basis. i would like to thank you for that. i would also like to thank my colleagues, martin schulz for his group, his predecessor enrique baron crespo, but especially you, martin, for our cooperation, which has always been based on professionalism, on our shared convictions, since where we have them there are also divergent convictions, and above all i would like to thank you for the mutual trust that unites us. the same goes for graham watson. graham watson, i also want to thank you for the professional cooperation and trust that has always bound us, as it did with your predecessor pat cox. i thank brian crowley, with whom i have always had a very deep trust. it would be the task of the next group chairmen to ensure that the uen chairman also gets a seat in the front row of the european parliament. mr wurtz, although we have differences of opinion on many issues, we have been colleagues in this parliament since 1979. our cooperation has always been marked by respect and mutual respect, and i am grateful for that. the greens, monica frassoni and daniel cohn-bendit, have always had something in common with us on the question of human rights. even with jens-peter bonde, there is a common ground on the issue of transparency, although i would say that there is not much in common otherwise. with irena belohorská from the non-aligned movement, there are similarities in the belief that even those who are not powerful in numbers have the right to be adequately represented. i would like to conclude by addressing a word to the commission. mr president of the commission, the formation of your commission was the most difficult period of my political life. but that's all behind us now. although we have different roles, you as commission, we as parliament - and i am pleased that the commission has found its role under your leadership and is doing a convincing job - we do have a common objective, namely to make this european union strong and capable of action. i would like to conclude, mr president borrell, by making a request to the political groups, to the chairmen and to parliament: let us always treat each other with respect and dignity in parliament and between the institutions. when we have respect and esteem for one another, that builds trust. and when that trust is there, europe is the beneficiary. i am sure that we will achieve our dream: a strong europe, a europe that is capable of action and democratic, a europe based on the rule of law. and this is the new thing in the 21st century. if we have that respect, that respect, that trust, then i am convinced that this european union will take a good development for our values and for our interests at home and abroad. (parliament adopted the resolution)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the president of the council has accepted the thanks of the epp group. that's nice, i want to join that. i am very grateful to mr vanhanen for the finnish presidency, which i think has done a good job. the finnish presidency has done a very good job in the circumstances in which it has had to lead the european union. i also share your view, mr vanhanen, that a summit where journalists say it is boring is not necessarily a bad summit. the european union needs less journalistic carnage than concrete results. i would therefore like to judge this summit not by the boredom or the joy of journalists, but by its results. two good things: the clear message of this summit is that europe is committed to its responsibility for enlargement! we have a responsibility in this enlargement process. the prospect of accession has been and remains peace-making, particularly in the balkans. but those who believe that enlargement can go ahead without the reforms that are essential in the constitutional process have also received a clear message over the weekend: there will be no enlargement without the necessary reforms of the eu. that is also an important message. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so if we want enlargement to meet needs and to bring about peace, we need an effective europe. i would therefore like to make it clear that without the reforms introduced in the constitutional process, there will be no enlargement with my group. with the constitutional reforms, there is enlargement! (applause from the centre) we have heard in this debate over the weekend a second positive - and i mean very positive - series of statements which will be indicative for the coming years. it is a very positive signal that the european union is committed to migration policy, moving away from just restrictive, but acknowledging that we need migration and orderly immigration on this continent. finally, i must say, finally! but here again, one thing is clear: the necessary instruments which - you are right - would have been available even under the nice treaty, using the passerelle, are not being used. so if i describe a goal on the one hand, but deny myself the tools i need to achieve it on the other, i am not very credible. so it was not a peak of boredom, but, once again, a missed opportunity. i am therefore firmly convinced that we as parliament must continue to urge the council to finally act coherently, to act in a coherent way and to say: if we want to control migration, we must also give the eu the instruments it needs to do so. we have, as the european parliament, together with you - and this has been mentioned by all the speakers - completed two important, landmark legislative procedures. the services directive is one of the greatest achievements of the internal market in my group's view. the neoliberal concept of destruction has become socially responsible legislation. the second concerns the chemicals policy: i saw at the reception that the representatives of the chemical industry and the representatives of greenpeace were drinking champagne together. so it cannot be such a bad piece of legislation! as you can see from the interim reports, my group has worked to ensure that legislation makes possible a reasonable compromise aimed at social balance and industrial rationality and consumer rights. i would like to thank evelyn gebhardt and guido sacconi, who have been the pilots for our group, once again for this great achievement that we have made as the european parliament under the leadership of my group. (applause from the centre) mr poettering has - i will say this to conclude - referred to his outgoing term as chairman of the epp group. i do not want to address all the other group leaders either, i am only addressing him. yes, we had a very, very constructive and collegial cooperation, for which i want to thank you. i would also like to pay a great compliment to mr poettering: i must say that he is an extremely skilled politician. let me illustrate this with a small example from this morning: no one has noticed in the meantime, after two and a half years, the phrase 'i say for the epp part of my group'. the group is called the epp-ed. this formulation implies that a whole section of his group will not speak at all. the european parliament has always been a party to the european convention on human rights. in this way he has actually managed to be the chairman of two political groups without anyone noticing. this is political art, and i commend you for it, mr poettering. (applause from the centre and the right) such a man, ladies and gentlemen, is capable of greatness. we shall see! i want to thank you for your cooperation. the fact that hans-gert poettering has been a figure in the european parliament since 1979 is one thing: one can disagree with him, one can argue with him, one can be angry with him, one can rejoice with him. but one thing is always certain, you will never be fooled by hans-gert poettering. he is a man of clear words and above all a man of reliability. i think those are virtues that are rare in politics. the more you pursue a career in politics, the less you encounter these virtues. if someone has reached such a high level and maintains it so consistently, then thank him, acknowledge him and wish him well! (applause from the centre) not enough christmas! i would like to thank you, mr president, on behalf of my colleagues in the group of the european people's party, for your leadership. but i want to thank you and the secretary-general for the great work that the services of this house have done again this year. we cannot work without the truly qualified and above all the collegial and humanly impeccable staff of the services of this house. i think it is worth saying a word to those who, for me, are the real heroes of the european parliament: the ladies and gentlemen behind the glass. i think that the interpreters in this house do an excellent job, a job without which this parliament would not be possible. (applause from the centre) i'm grateful to all of you for finally being able to speak for eight and a half minutes. thank you very much, mr president. (cheers and applause)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not this is our last joint plenary debate this year. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank you. first of all, mr president, i would like to thank you personally for your responsible work and for the good cooperation between us. i would also like to thank the general secretariat, julian priestley and all the staff of this house for the really good work they have done together. we all know how difficult it can be at times to get this parliament to function as well as we all want it to. i would also like to address mr poettering, also on behalf of my group's chairman, mr francis, who is not available to speak today. mr poettering, we are members of different political groups. i think that's good. this is what fuels debate and is important for democracy. but it is also important that we can work together constructively across party lines. we've been doing that for the last few years. my group's chairman, mr francis wurtz, who, like you, belongs to the special club of six who have been fighting for european integration since 1979, will certainly emphasize this publicly in person at the next opportunity. i would like to thank you, mr president-in-office, for the finnish presidency and for the good and constructive cooperation between the presidency and parliament. i say this explicitly, even though we as the gue/ngl group cannot support the two central projects launched during the finnish presidency, namely the services directive and reach. i think - and i say this to martin schulz - that there is no reason at all to be so cavalier, because both directives show that there is still no turning away from neoliberal policies in this europe, and both are not, in our view, masterpieces. (applause from the centre) mr president-in-office of the council, on behalf of my group i would like to expressly welcome the decision of the summit to keep the european union open to new members and to keep the commitments made to the countries in the process of enlargement. although no one can at present predict exactly when we will be able to welcome new states into the european union after bulgaria and romania, it must be clear that all european states that share our common values and that meet the conditions for admission, in particular the copenhagen criteria, have a right to apply for membership of the european union. i am personally convinced that the existing treaty of nice is not a suitable basis for future enlargements. the future of the union therefore requires strengthening the union's capacity for integration and launching a truly comprehensive and far-reaching reform of the union of 27. it is not only the candidates who have to change. first of all, the union itself must do its homework. and i believe that this means that during the german presidency of the council a solution to the constitutional crisis that is acceptable to all must be found. the crucial point is that it is not only the citizens of france and the netherlands who are finally being shown that the reflection phase, mr president-in-office, also has consequences for other policies. the prospectus is not going to help. people must reconnect with europe their very personal prospects for the future, for themselves and for their families. work and social security that is what they expect from europe. decent working conditions, effective equality of opportunity in education and employment, protection against illness, a guaranteed minimum income - all these things matter. and that, mr president of the commission, would be a europe of results. but if the union and its member states continue as they have been, if wage dumping, social dumping and crossborder competition between workers remain the everyday experience of people, then europe will continue to lose its popularity. but that's exactly what we can't have. and that is why, mr president of the council and mr president of the commission, the question of social justice must be given the highest political priority. (applause from the centre)
