the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i am not sure that this is the case. citizenship belongs to states, and it is therefore logical that those who want the union to be transformed into a state should also strive to establish a citizenship of the union. my group wants practical european cooperation without wanting to build a common state. we therefore reject the plans to extend the union's citizenship. common fundamental rights must be enshrined in our own constitutions and in the european convention on human rights - we must not have a state-building competitor, the european court of justice in luxembourg. the voters of our countries must decide for themselves who they will grant citizenship to and when, and what rights and duties they will grant to their citizens. the very idea of a citizenship of the union with the freedom to settle anywhere and sell labour at subsidized prices is destroying the union and is making enlargement with poor countries hateful. the june movement says yes to a common market and cooperation, but no to a common citizenship. i would also like to remind you that the danes voted against maastricht citizenship in 1992 and were granted a derogation from common citizenship. this exception is not respected. denmark is part of all the parts of the common citizenship of the union - i have merely translated the term into the less binding citizenship of the union. it doesn't make any difference!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu's behaviour in hong kong was shameful. the world had hoped that the eu would show leadership, demonstrate its solidarity with the developing countries and strive to ensure genuine free trade with full access to the markets of the developing countries, especially the poorest countries. the eu should have used its powerful position to develop the wto into a well-functioning multilateral agreement system with clear social and environmental terms for trade. but as far as i am aware, the eu behaved almost worse than the united states: the eu was self-centered, unsolidarist and full of trickery and committed a blatant abuse of power when developing countries were forced to open their markets to our exports. our own exorbitant and destructive agricultural subsidies will not be touched. the agreement on the abolition of export subsidies is far too vague and full of insidious reservations. the eu is proud of the us cotton policy, and there is good reason for that, but the eu behaves in exactly the same way itself, for example, when it comes to sugar. and what should have been a big, beautiful development package that really should have moved something for the poor, ended up being a little, loose matchbox. what a disappointment!
the alde group is not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. today, almost 50 years after the establishment of the community, there is still no specific legal framework for port services. the port sector is the only transport sector where problems of free movement of services have to be solved on a case-by-case basis by the commission and through the court of justice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the port services are not subject to the same restrictions as the other services. this is why a legal framework for the port sector is needed. the alde group is therefore in favour of a port directive. not as proposed by the commission - very few seem to support it. we have supported the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, in his efforts to change this directive into something more sensible. in view of the development we have seen in mr jarzembowski's efforts, i have been surprised by the violent demonstrations against the commission's proposal, which has no chance of being adopted in its present form. mr jarzembowski wants to take self-management out of the proposal to make it less controversial. yet we are hearing strange and untrue claims about filipino seamen taking over the jobs of dockers, and dockers have signed off on the goodwill by rioting outside parliament and smashing a large number of windows in our façade. i think that this shows a lack of understanding, indeed a contempt for the democratic process. we need a port directive which can establish the framework for free competition between service providers in ports and for more free competition between ports, which safeguards against state aid distorting competition. the commission's starting point has been that by breaking up monopolies we could have more efficient and well-run ports, so that we can have more goods transported by ship, which will reduce both the burden on the roads and the environment. but this objective has been completely lost sight of in the debate. it must be admitted that there are a number of weaknesses in the commission's proposal. we believe that greater consideration should be given to the possibilities of service providers to make a profit and to write off the often very large investments they have to make. there must be better transition rules when new service providers take over from old ones. if the directive is rejected - as many of us think, but do not hope - then the text should be included in future work on a new impact assessment of legislation in this area. in view of the chaotic situation that has developed so far, it is understandable that many people want the commission to withdraw the proposal. i must say that my own group does not agree on how to approach this question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. first of all, i would like to congratulate commissioner fischer boel on this reform. it was an ambitious proposal put forward by the commission at the time and it is an excellent compromise which has since been adopted by the council. the result is clear: more free trade in sugar. the world's poorest countries will have free access to the european market in the coming years, and the price of sugar will be reduced to approximate the world market price. i am disappointed that parliament is late in its contribution. despite many calls last year to get out of the rut, we are now in a situation where we have played our part, because the decision has already been taken by the council of agriculture ministers. that is not to say that the european parliament has not put its fingerprints on the reform, on the contrary. several elements of the reform are wishes expressed by the european parliament, where the restructuring part is a good example of strengthening the regions where sugar beet production is a crucial element. i am glad that we have finally adopted a reform of the sugar regime, which has existed virtually unchanged for 40 years. with the reform we have taken a good step in the right direction towards a more market economy, but i would like to see us go further. we must not just create free trade with countries outside the community, because the fact is that we do not have a free market within the eu. only when we have abolished national quotas, so that production takes place where it is best and most profitable, can we speak of a free internal market. there are several elements of the reform which are worth highlighting. unfortunately, time does not allow for that. i would particularly mention the proposal to increase the use of biofuels and the production of ethanol, which i think we should invest a lot in as soon as possible. fortunately, some member states are doing this, while others are hesitant and have not yet started. it is not only sugar beet but also other crops which can be grown on former sugar beet areas and used for biofuels which are an important part of the energy production of the future, both in terms of supply, the environment and also economically. the biggest battle in the fight to create the basis for biofuels is to be fought with the finance ministers of the member states, who are a little too happy about the oil taxes and the contribution they make to the public treasury. the reform, and in particular the price reduction, however right it may be, has serious negative consequences for a number of the world's poorest countries, which cannot compete freely on the world market. with the very high eu sugar price, we bear a very large share of the responsibility. it is therefore imperative that we allocate adequate funds to the restructuring that these countries are facing. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr fruteau, for his excellent cooperation.
i have to say, madam president, whenever it is claimed that the acp countries will suffer from the abolition of the eu sugar circus, the underlying agenda is always the protection of the eu's own production. if the acp countries are going to suffer from such abolition, it is because we have kept them in a slave-like condition through absurd trade arrangements, and if you free slaves without helping them to manage themselves, they are of course in a worse situation than before. we should help the acp countries to build a sustainable production system. it is grotesque that we only give them a few hands when we are adequately compensating our own sugar producers and our own sugar industry. the 200 million euro proposed by glenys kinnock is an absolute minimum. there is a lot of money to be saved by abolishing the sugar scheme and therefore plenty of money for these compensations. and then we should be happy about the many developing countries that benefit from a sugar liberalisation. the social and environmental problems that are evidently present in many places must be solved through the ilo and the environmental conventions. we must support the efforts to implement these demands, for example in brazil, and, hopefully, we must get them accepted as clear trade terms in the wto.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. if the aarhus convention is to work as it is intended to in the eu, it is essential that the rules also guarantee access to justice for certain environmental organisations. but the council's common position does not give ngos such access. the committee on the environment has therefore rightly supported the commission's original proposal and reintroduced this element. i regret that many ppe groups are opposed to the fair implementation of the aarhus convention. have they learned nothing from the french and dutch no? if we are to increase understanding and support for the eu project, public participation and scrutiny are of immense importance. consider a recent example. the european parliament has decided to take action against the commission in the case of the brominated flame retardant bde, where the commission has lifted the ban without the legislator having given the commission the right to do so. and the danish government has followed suit with a similar lawsuit. but environmental organisations must also be able to take action when eu laws are broken. now the chemical industry has once again been at stake to keep the citizens away. individual citizens cannot be tested in environmental decisions, since there is no individual interest. but ngos are public interests in the field of environment and health and should therefore have access to justice - also in the eu. it's david and goliath. environmental organisations are the public interest, while the chemical industry, with its huge money reserves, can push decisions through the eu system. we saw it with reach. without transparency and public access to the court of justice, the eu is turning into a sham democracy!
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. first of all, i would like to thank anne ferreira for a fine report which unfortunately received a few bad applause in the committee on the environment. the report contains some fine objectives. i don't want to repeat them here, but they're all important. when something really needs to be done, the eu's good intentions often turn out to be very little. unfortunately, we fear that this will also be the case in this case, and i have not been reassured by the commissioner's comments - there were very few concrete elements. the greens have tabled three amendments: more ambitious targets for the reduction of greenhouse gases, a move away from dependence on nuclear energy and a specific amendment on the waste problems we have as a result of an inconsistent attitude towards beverage packaging. denmark alone has 400-600 million cans of german beer and soda water floating in the wild or in the waste incineration system every year because the germans let the danes off the hook for canned bread when they buy beer in germany. with a common european lease system, danish nature and the environment would be much better off - just like the cows that are tortured today when they rummage on one of the many german beer cans in the wild.
mr president, chancellor, i fully agree with what the chairman of my group, mr schulz, said about the financial perspective. i sincerely hope, chancellor, that with your negotiating skills you will show the necessary flexibility in the forthcoming negotiations with parliament. the chairman of my group also underlined, as you did, how important it is for this spring presidency to promote more growth and more jobs. i noted that you said that a possible perspective might be 3% growth and 1% reduction in unemployment in the coming years. this is a marvellous perspective and one that i endorse, but we need to use the right tools to achieve this target. let us do it, but let us use the right tools to achieve it. i sent you a proposal a few days ago on a new growth strategy which the socialist group and the party share. mr schulz and i were in london just a day before hampton court, and there the socialist leaders, presidents and prime ministers decided unanimously to bring before the european union a new common growth strategy, recognising that we cannot achieve it merely by means of a european union directive – we do not have the necessary competences. but we can do it together in a freely decided intergovernmental decision at the forthcoming spring council meeting. i sincerely hope that you share this vision brought to you by the socialist governments of europe and that you will bring the forces on the other side together, whether they be grey or of any other colour. it is the results that count, as you said. this growth strategy has shown that if we boost growth as a combination of reforms and guided demand on intelligent investment in education, in active labour market policy, in child care, in research, in small and medium-sized firms, then we can do it. but what we need are common decisions at the spring council and guarded and guided decisions over the next three to four years. i asked commission president barroso a couple of weeks ago whether we can do it. could we make a new deal as a new start for the spring summit? i got the impression, mr barroso, that you said ‘let us give it a try’. you have the opportunity, and if you do it, not only will the people of europe hear the sound of europe, but we will hear the voice of the people and then they will begin to listen to us. and then they will be ready to discuss a new treaty for europe. is that not worthwhile? i think it is.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you down. mr president of the commission! we reject the budget agreement of december because it does not at all meet the objectives of a more dynamic and competitive eu and because it does not ensure a stronger role for the eu on the international scene. both you, mr barroso, and you, mr schüssel, have a good idea of what we in the european parliament should and should not ask for in the budget negotiations. but first and foremost we want a larger and more flexible framework, and both of you have shown today that we will need such a framework. mr schüssel, i have to go. they are right that it is time to confront the more ideological opposition to a european tax, because it is clear that after enlargement we are in a new situation. not only are there many more countries around the table, but we have greater disparities in wealth. we must find a substitute for the present funding with contributions from the public treasury. each country places too much emphasis on the net contribution rather than on the overall picture. we're gonna have to take that to court. i agree with that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we know what we're voting on. we already knew this in 2003 - we rejected the proposal then, and a large majority in this chamber will do so again. but with the procedure you are now proposing, this majority for rejection will be hidden in an attempt to bring the matter back to committee. we should therefore take a vote in the house on whether the rejection motions should be put to the vote before the procedural motion. it is absolutely insane that the presidency is administering a procedure which can conceal the position of the majority in this chamber.
in writing. the first amendment, rejecting the commission's proposal, was voted by the members of the european parliament on the left, since it is impossible to achieve a satisfactory result on the basis of it. there is a need for a port services directive, but not in the form of a commission directive. the process of legislating in this area must start anew.
in writing. the june motion voted in favour of paragraph 45 of the report on 'environmental aspects and sustainable development', but wants the introduction of environmental taxes at eu level to be based on minimum directives, so that more extensive requirements can be set in each member state. point 45:"supports the introduction of environmental taxes at eu level; stresses that they, like other market instruments, are an indispensable tool in an effective policy to combat pollution; calls on the commission to submit proposals and the member states to adopt the first european environmental tax by 2009 at the latest;"
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i should like to ask the ostrich majority in this house: have you not heard that 55% of french voters voted ‘no’, against the advice of 90% of their deputies and senators? have you not seen that 62% of dutch voters did not follow the advice of the 80% in the national parliament? have you not read the treaties calling for unanimity in treaty changes? why break your own rules? you seem to have both eyes and ears. use them! the proposed constitution is dead! still you urge national parliaments to break the law. you continue to propagate the text. on the outside of this building you still proclaim ‘yes’ to the constitution. could you imagine a national parliament praising labour policies and condemning conservative ones on the front of the parliament building itself? no, you could not, could you? you still use taxpayers’ money to distribute millions of brochures propagating what was rejected. you started ratification of a text which had not yet been properly translated. you refused to publish a reader-friendly edition of the constitution, because you wanted the text approved without being read. you manipulated the time schedule for holding referendums and hoped to drive the uk into a corner after 24 ratifications. but, dear colleagues, you lost, as i have done several times. now it is your turn to follow the verdict of the voters. instead, you finance further propaganda: eur 300 000 to the european movement; eur 110 000 to the european federalists; millions of euros to those in favour of the constitution. we demand a free, fair and open debate with equal representation of the ‘yes’ and ‘no’ sides. shame on those of you who will vote for overruling the dutch and french voters! the sos democracy intergroup has started a minority report. we reject the idea of a state constitution, ask for the existing treaties to be reviewed and for a cooperation agreement to be established instead. a new agreement could be drafted by a directly elected convention and put to referendums in all the member states, perhaps at the same time as the next european elections. then we would know the verdict of the citizens. the french voters have not regretted their ‘no’; many dutch voters have changed their minds, but they were the ones who voted ‘yes’. listen to the voters, let us make a fresh start. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. when the palestinian delegation met the catholic bishop michel sabah in november, he made it clear that we will not have peace in the middle east for the next 40 years unless a just peace is achieved in israel/palestine with a real palestinian state within the framework of the 1967 borders and not the enclave of sharon. the solution includes jerusalem, which is also the city of the palestinians. jerusalem is central. if israel denies all of jerusalem, the key to peace is thrown away. not just in that area, but in the relationship between the arab countries and the west. the words of bishop michel sabah were in line with the council conclusions of the meeting of 7 november 2005. there was a clear statement that jerusalem should be kept as an open city, also for the palestinians, with the wish to reopen the orient house. but the double standard of the west is celebrating great triumphs here. israel does not care about the eu's statements, because the israelis know that none of the foreign ministers take themselves seriously. we are even maintaining israel's great economic privileges, although they are explicitly conditional on israel's respect for human rights. and now, most recently, the council has had its publication of the report on jerusalem suspended. at the same time, the eu is trying to pay for everything with regard to the palestinians, who, with israel's apartheid policy, are now the responsibility of the eu and the us. sharon would call these enclaves a state, which would mean that israel no longer has any responsibility under international law for the palestinians. the palestinians have no chance of creating a healthy economy on those terms and will be on an eternal supply. it is guaranteed to end badly unless miracles happen now in israel and the people of peace and justice come to power, not only in palestine but also in israel. or an almost equally great miracle will happen, in that the european union will finally begin to take itself and international law seriously and use the means to which europeans have peaceful access. nothing happens as long as the council and the commissioner do not even mention the settlements, do not mention the wall and do not even talk about a real state.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur's report highlights a worrying and unfortunately often overlooked fact. the gender gap in research persists and prevents the achievement of the lisbon objectives. we in the committee on industry had hoped to get more funds for research in the new budget. more and better research and therefore more research funds are the most crucial means in the fight for competition and growth in europe. unfortunately, the budget negotiations which have just been concluded have resulted in insufficient priority being given to research. that is most regrettable. the strategies on the lisbon agenda are europe's future insurance. although the eu's research programmes represent only a small part of the total funding for research in europe, we need to think very carefully when setting our priorities. the very fact that european women are still underrepresented in the world of research, despite the fact that women are now better educated than men, is an expression of the fact that europe has a huge potential which is not being exploited. we've got to do something about that! a female professor rarely has a husband and children. male professors are the most common. young female graduates have difficulty obtaining research positions. throughout europe, the majority of newly qualified candidates are women, but at the top of the career ladder, men still have a heavy saddle. it is important to note that women are more vulnerable than men at this time, because competition for research funds is fierce. we need to increase the proportion of female professors and phd students to meet the challenges we face. investing in education, research and innovation is our only chance of making it in the knowledge-based economy. and the untapped research potential of women is the core of the future. we need to do a better job of encouraging young women to choose a career in research, and we need to ensure better conditions for both women and men in the research world. for example, the vast majority of research jobs in europe today are temporary, and if we do not change things soon, public research will end up being secondary to private research. in the longer term, this may lead to women becoming university lecturers, as we have seen further down the school system, while men find employment in the better paid and more prestigious industrial research, where only 15% of researchers today are women.
mr president, i could almost feel my good friend mr solana’s pain when you outlined what happened in the first month of this year, imagining that if the rest of the year is going to be like the first month, then it is not going to be easy! but i have another point to make. i think that what you said in essence is that the world in 2006 will once again be confronted with a fundamental choice: the choice between pre-emptive wars or pre-emptive policies. i am in no doubt that what you are saying and what is clear as a result of your experience, is that in 2006 we need pre-emptive policies. the essence of the values of this european union when it comes to foreign policy is pre-emptive policies. when we look at the instruments which the commissioner so nicely referred to, it is fair to say that yes, maybe it is the most difficult choice, but yes, it is also the choice which, in historical terms, has shown success. we need to remember that at this difficult time. i want to say to you, mr solana, that in palestine right now there are so many who are taking the lead in the wrong direction and therefore the poor people in palestine need to have a strong european voice. what you said is correct: we need patience, we need wisdom and we need balance. i was so happy to hear you say that we should not be those who just make palestine bankrupt, because you and i know that there will be others who will ensure that this will not happen – iran, egypt and others. this is not our case and therefore i trust you. we will be on your side ensuring, together with the commission and president-in-office winkler, that europe will ensure open doors and dialogue and, hopefully, open doors once again over the next three months.
i have to say, madam president, the palestinian elections were exemplary. i would like to congratulate the palestinians and thank the colleagues for their work. but the problems in israel and palestine are still there: palestine is occupied. a series of un resolutions pointed this out, criticizing israel's continued violations of international law, the settlements, the cruel wall and the attempt to annex east jerusalem - to mention the worst problems. the difficult situation in palestine is mentioned in the joint motion for a resolution, which contains several good points. the proposal sets the relevant conditions for hamas. we must be careful that hamas does not resort to terrorism again after having been at peace for over a year. it is true that we must not deprive them of the right to armed resistance to the occupation, which they have under the geneva convention, but we must make a determined and well-considered effort to ensure that the situation does not go off the rails. all non-state groups should be disarmed both in palestine and among the israeli settlers. we must counteract any form of radicalisation in palestine as well as in israel. the present motion for a resolution can be read as a unilateral declaration, and that is dangerous if we are to contribute to peace. i would therefore urge members to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the greens/efa group, in particular the amendment to paragraph 10, which contains a very clear wording on the council's withholding of the statement on east jerusalem drawn up by the heads of delegation in palestine. the resolution, which clearly incorporates the report's criticism of the situation in east jerusalem and the recommendations it contains, is a suitable instrument for building a just peace between israel and palestine. i urge us to be consistent now. we do not have enough credibility among the palestinians, and it is time we got it!
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i am not sure that this is the case. my dear margot! the essence of your beautiful words is that the eu's propaganda department would like more money for more propaganda. more journalists must be hired to report on your own achievements and a new news agency must be set up so that you can decide what the media should write about the eu and provide every news item with a clear message that can praise the union. the commission does not need a communication policy, but openness and democracy. you'd better start opening the accounts for parliamentary scrutiny. provide access to the eu's auditors to audit all expenditure. publish the names of those paid to advise the commission on secret working groups. open the letterhead so voters and elected officials can see what parts of our laws the commission doesn't like. tell us who in the commission votes for what - for example, are there members of the commission who have opposed margot wallström's communication plan or siim kallas' transparency initiative. i prefer openness, closeness and democracy to more money for public relations!
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i'm not going to let you do this. the alde group has been in favour of stronger control of the driving-rest rules throughout the work on these two directives, and we welcome the digital tachograph. the need for more uniform and consistent enforcement of the rules on driving and rest periods is apparent. we need this in the field of road safety and we need it to ensure fair competition for drivers who comply with the rules. violations of the law must be detected and punished. we have, however, been more sceptical about any significant changes to the rules on driving and rest periods themselves. it's a complicated set of rules. but the rules are embedded and known to the drivers. if we change them, it must really be a change for the better. however, with the agreement now reached between parliament and the council, i believe that we have found a fair balance and we can support it from the alde group. the rules are simplified. this also means that in some cases they become less flexible. in future, daily rest time will not be divided into smaller breaks - the rule will be nine hours plus three hours of daily rest, but in other places, for example, a more flexible ferry rule will be relaxed. it is also important that the rules will now cover trucks from third countries not covered by the aetr agreement. it is important that lorry drivers are well rested, whether they come from denmark or from ukraine. the question of the control of drivers' working time has been an important topic in the negotiations. the alde group was opposed to leaving the control of the working time rules for drivers to the police. the organization of the control of drivers' working time varies greatly from one country to another, and we must accept that. this does not mean that we do not want the directive on working time for drivers to be enforced, and i would therefore call on the commission to monitor the implementation of the directive on working time and to ensure that all countries carry out uniform checks and enforcement so that there is no distortion of competition here either. the bus drivers will not be satisfied with the outcome of the settlement, it will be more difficult to organise bus journeys in the same way as today, where the driver can be available for more than six days in a row. i regret that we could not find a more flexible solution here, but otherwise i am satisfied with the overall result and i thank mr markov and the shadow rapporteur for their efforts. the legislation on the digital tachograph has been called a farce because for so long it has been uncertain when it should be introduced and the drivers have found themselves in a legal vacuum with changing messages about the rules. i think that the farce must now end, and i would therefore like to ask commissioner barrot the following question at the end: will you guarantee that when the new legislation on driving and resting times comes into force in a year's time, the problems of moving the digital tachographs from the current rules to the new rules will be taken into account? can you guarantee that, commissioner?
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you to the many demonstrators who today made a dignified show of their opposition to the bolkestein directive. the june movement, like the demonstrators, wants to reject the bolkestein directive. the compromise between the pse and the ppe does not change the substance. the principle of country of origin is removed but not replaced by a clear principle of host country. the posting of workers directive continues to give low-wage countries the right to undermine our wages and the danish contract model. sensitive areas are excluded from the directive, leaving it to the judges to liberalise and market public services. this has already happened in the fields of education, social affairs and health. the court of justice is directly invited to legislate with amendment no 5, which reaffirms the court of justice's principles of non-discrimination, necessity and proportionality. it sounds good, but the three words are an expression of the fact that it is for the luxembourg judges to decide whether national law can be considered unlawful if foreign companies do not have the same effective access to tender for tasks and to provide services. the june movement welcomes the polish plumber and all other foreign workers, but at non-discriminatory wages - not at dumped wages. we want free competition, but it must also be fair, and we therefore propose services regulated by the open method of coordination so that our democracies are not made into illegal barriers to trade by the judges in luxembourg.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the compromise we are standing with, and which we are going to vote on on thursday, is a completely different service directive from the bolkestein directive. i can therefore tell mr jens-peter bonde that these thousands of good trade unionists demonstrating outside parliament today support the compromise reached here. this is stated in a press release by the secretary-general of the european trade union movement, mr john monks. and i can tell you i understand why. i've been pushing that myself. the agreements and labour law conditions will be determined by each country and each trade union movement. this is gonna bring in more jobs. the public sector is secure and we have avoided a split between the new member states and the old ones. on thursday we shall vote on the balanced opening of the internal market. i have long said that the european union must not become a competition between states. we have avoided that with the compromise now in place. we now have competition on fair and transparent terms and we have protection of the interests that serve the public and serve the individual citizen in the public sector around our societies. i think that this is an important compromise and i also think that it represents a very important development trend which we must build on, whether it is the working time directive or the many other tasks we have ahead of us. i am therefore also in a position to recommend the compromise now in hand as president of the european social democrats. it's definitely pulling in the right direction.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is a defining moment for europe. on thursday we have two choices: we can either show that we take the citizens of europe seriously, that we take the consumers' wishes for more and cheaper choices seriously, that we take the demand for more jobs seriously and, not least, that we show the long-awaited solidarity with our new member states. or we can fool the citizens of europe by adopting a service directive at any price with the lowest common denominator. and by adopting a text which does not alter the current protectionist conditions in the service sector. a text which does not even preserve the status quo, but which is a step backwards compared to today, because it creates even more obstacles for our companies. the commission, mr mccreevy, has unfortunately already made its choice and has put its foot down in the compromise between the two major groups. i had clearly expected the commission to have been the flag-bearer for a genuine internal market for services, which is the very cornerstone of the commission's high-profile lisbon process. the compromise of the major groups will in no way bring the union closer to the citizens, which is what we are all asking for. only a genuine internal market for services can create the jobs we so badly need in europe. anything else is false marketing. we must clearly reject the campaigns of intimidation, misinformation and manipulation which have been spread by certain circles - including those in this house - about social dumping and mass unemployment and other monstrosities. this is a scandal.
for the pse group. i am not sure that this is the case. mr president of the council! mr barroso, president of the commission! martin schulz, our group chairman, has asked me to speak today on behalf of the socialist group, and i am happy to do so on this matter. it has been terrible and outrageous to see people killed, my flag and other countries burned, embassies attacked and boycotts launched, so many innocent people losing their jobs. it has been doubly sad because the history of our countries is also about tolerance and understanding and respect for other peoples. we have been at the forefront of international solidarity and of economic and political assistance to poor people around the world. we have always fought for justice and the right of peoples to their own independent state in peaceful coexistence, not least in palestine. it is absolutely vital that the violence we see does not run rampant. this violence must stop now. and i would like to thank mr barroso personally and on behalf of my country for the clear signal he has given here today in parliament and for the solidarity he has shown with my country and with all the countries that have been attacked. an attack on one member state is an attack on the whole of the european union. but it is also important to stress that the european union stands for the opposite of xenophobia and intolerance. europe's values are based on respect for peoples and religions. our bloody history has taught us the wisdom of mutual understanding, dignity and coexistence. that is why the first thing i would like to say today to the entire muslim world and to all of europe is: freedom of expression is something we cannot compromise - no government or citizen can question that freedom. but freedom of expression is not in a vacuum - it must and must be managed with responsibility. nor can we compromise respect for other peoples and other religions. it is also a fundamental part of the human rights on which europe and the un are based. that is why freedom of expression must go hand in hand with respect for other peoples. that's the way it is! i would like to use my freedom of expression today to criticise and clearly distance myself from the cartoons of the prophet muhammad that were published in a danish newspaper a few months ago. it was arrogant, it was disrespectful, and it was a total lack of knowledge about islam. and i would like to emphasize that the drawings do not reflect the views of the danish population in general. we know well in denmark and throughout europe that we do not have to criticize others or speak down to others when it comes to something they consider sacred, in order to love our own country, our own dignity, our own religion. i also know that many in europe cannot understand why the danish prime minister refused to meet with ambassadors from the arab world. i can't understand that either. but what's done is done. and most importantly, the danish government has since clearly used its freedom of expression to express respect for other peoples and their religions, not least islam. now we must look ahead! we have seen it so many times before from xenophobic and populist parties in europe and from the extremist movements in the muslim world. we say "no" to those who claim it is "them against us". for much too long, extremists on both sides have been allowed to play their false tune. worst of all, they have inflamed hatred and fear and they have gained an audience for their views. it is time for moderate and responsible voices to set a new agenda, as mr barroso said, a new agenda which clearly and unambiguously shows that there is another way. we in europe do not want to add fuel to the extremists' fire. here in the european parliament, we have a clear message: we want to unite all forces in a new and far stronger dialogue with the islamic world, building on unconditional respect a respect extending beyond borders and applying to all people and religions. we know that we live in a globalized world. that gives us a special responsibility. in this globalised world it is not 'them against us': we are one. and no, it is not a clash between religions or civilizations. what we have witnessed are ignorant acts creating humiliation and insult. this was used by extremists to inflame hatred and violence. however, trying to understand the broader reactions, those cartoons, together with manipulation from extremists, were the last straw. let us not forget the many years of social and economic frustrations in many muslim societies. let us now realize what humiliation and arrogance from those with power and wealth can result in. let us not fall prey to short-sighted sanctions but, instead, stand by our economic and political cooperation. let us put behind us what the cartoons initiated. let it be the last thing to cause provocation, and let the next step unite us to build a stronger dialogue critical, open, permanent and constructive. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, today the core message from liberals and democrats is to safeguard and defend freedom of speech, not only in europe but also in kabul and tehran. it is totally unacceptable for violent protests, attacks on embassies, burnings of flags and boycotting of goods to replace dialogue. that we have seen examples of a european company boycotting danish goods is unfortunate and not a sign of european solidarity. we have all been shocked and saddened by the terrible circumstances of the last 14 days, and no one has been more shocked than me and my fellow danes. however, muslims should recognise that the global tensions have merely increased support for far-right, anti-immigration parties and have been abused by extremists in and outside europe. europeans from all communities must now exercise personal responsibility to quell this rising tide of anger. we must not let extremists triumph at the expense of the moderate majority, and we must stand together in respect for article 11 of the treaty to condemn violence and intimidation against member states. when the danish flag and other european flags are burned, the eu should show solidarity, as we have seen today, and reject demands that governments should apologise on behalf of independent media ...(applause)... especially since section 77 of the constitutional act of denmark clearly states: ‘any person shall be at liberty to publish his ideas in print, in writing and in speech, subject to his being held responsible in a court of law. censorship and other preventive measures shall never again be introduced’. it should also rebuff efforts by the organisation of the islamic conference and the arab league to seek a un resolution, backed by possible sanctions, to ban attacks on religious beliefs. such a move would contravene the constitutional basis of many liberal democracies and is an invitation to criminalise freedom of thought on a global scale. (applause) nobody is denying that muslims have a right to feel offended by these drawings, just as sikhs, jews, christians or believers of any sort have a right to take umbrage at the press. however, complaints must be handled through the appropriate legal channels. in a civilised society, offence can never be grounds for violence. in a secular, democratic society such as our own, freedom of the press must remain paramount, for it is this freedom that reinforces the principles of democracy and pluralism on which our union is founded and which are universally acknowledged in international conventions. as such, all believers should stand up for those values, which ensure that anyone in europe can practise their religion freely and openly, but also accept the right to be a non-believer. this is not to say that freedom of the press should mean total freedom to cause offence. it is self-evident that, after 9/11 and the bombings in madrid and london, greater care must be taken to ensure that relations between different communities remain as harmonious as possible. however, liberals and democrats are convinced that the current situation cannot be resolved by the ‘thought police’, but only through dialogue. from that perspective, we support the alliance of civilisations initiative proposed by the un secretary-general, and we applaud justice commissioner frattini for organising a round table with media bosses, journalists and religious leaders. but, mr frattini, we draw the line at supporting your proposed code of conduct for the press, and we encourage mr solana to draw exactly the same line. that way lies greater distrust and mutual antagonism, because if communities cannot discuss issues on their cultural fault lines, how will they ever grow into acceptance? before i close in danish, i just want to thank personally the president of the commission, mr barroso, and my colleagues here in this chamber for showing their solidarity. ytringsfriheden er en ret, men ikke nødvendigvis en pligt. men ytringsfrihed er en ret, som hverken må betvivles eller gradbøjes. hvis vi først begynder at gradbøje ytringsfriheden og samtidig parkerer vores ret til kritisk analyse af alle religioner, vil den fundamentale ret til at tænke og ytre sig frit blive indskrænket.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – good morning, little eu! globalisation has indeed arrived. i never thought that other people could burn the danish flag with such passion. on freedom of expression we will never give in. freedom of expression and freedom of religion both need to be respected. the editor of jyllands-posten has apologised for the feelings raised. he would not have published the cartoons today. some danish imams have distributed the cartoons they do not like. why feel so offended by cartoons you spread to as many as possible? the danish prime minister has rightly refused to take responsibility for the content in our newspapers, but when 11 arab ambassadors ask for a meeting, it is a duty for a prime minister to meet them. he should have explained that freedom of expression is limited by the danish courts, not by the government. he should have advised on how to write to the special press authority to have its judgement. blasphemy is a crime under the danish penal code. every local editor must show global responsibility. cartoons in a newspaper can spread via the internet and global media like wildfire. several people have been killed. the danish foreign minister had an excellent press conference when the danish embassies were burning. he talked of dialogue and generosity instead of animosity. people could be put in jail in denmark for burning the koran. i could not agree more: generosity instead of animosity. we must learn to respect and cooperate with muslims, even if we will never surrender freedom of speech. my group warned against making fundamental rights a part of eu law. sensitive judgements on freedom of expression and religious rights must be decided locally under international frameworks decided by the united nations and the european convention on human rights. we can offer dialogue in the new joint euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. we can amend our exchange programmes to allow europeans to visit the arab world and young arabs to visit us. we can open our markets more to their products, make peace and prosperity in the middle east a priority, but state-sponsored trade boycotts against danish products must be raised by the eu in the wto. islam is not about the danish constitution. danish imams have no right to appeal to other nations. muslims may use the danish courts in the same way as all other citizens. if it is not enough, go to the european court of human rights here in strasbourg. indeed, globalisation has arrived. we all need to open our minds. there is no easy one-way ticket back. we will all have to change a bit to live in a global village. a third world war can be started by a little cartoon, as the first world war was started when a young student shot archduke franz ferdinand in sarajevo. a student’s shot – or a satirical cartoon – may not be the reason, but let us take the message. we must all live together on this globe. we have no other globe available yet. vi skal alle være her!
mr president, i would like to thank you. there are not many people who believe that the presidential elections in belarus on 19 march will live up to even the most basic democratic standards. we have every reason to expect the opposite. president lukashenko will use all means at his disposal to defend his position and consolidate his dictatorship. the opposition has been deprived of equal opportunities to get its political message out and a very difficult election campaign is in store for the joint candidate, mr milinkewitsch. we must support the democratic forces in belarus with all means in connection with the elections. but i would especially like to appeal to the people of belarus not to be forgotten after the elections! i agree with mr winkler that it will take a long-term effort to bring democracy to belarus. we'll have to stick to that after the election. and i thank commissioner borg for his commitment to pursue just such a strategy.
member of the commission. madam president, the framework programme is only one of the tools being used at the european union level; it is approximately 4% or 5% of the european union budget. i agree with the honourable member that it is a large sum of money, because there are important challenges which are ahead of us if we are to deal with questions such as how to sustain our quality of life and remain globally competitive. that is the major question which is included in the lisbon agenda and the partnership for growth and jobs which is a follow-up to that. i believe it is crucial that, on the one hand, we try to stimulate the potential of member states which are less developed, smaller and maybe do not have the potential to compete on an equal basis today. there are a number of action centres; specific action is proposed in framework programme 7 to boost that ability to compete. on the other hand, we have to be aware that the european union should be aiming for the top. we should stimulate excellence and the possibility that we can truly compete with the changing and challenging world of today. so we care very much about what you have said, but we also believe that the various types of sources should be combined to address both questions which i underlined, one being the question of aiming for the top, of having the best for europe; and the second, the question of how to deal with the others which may not be in the best position today.
mr. chairman, please. it has been mentioned by several countries that the european investment bank should be able to lend up to eur 10 billion for research purposes or research and innovation. what considerations has the commission had regarding the development of new financial instruments at the european investment bank to support innovation?
member of the commission. thank you for the question. you are right to say that it was mentioned in the debate. however, even before it was mentioned in the debate, the commission, in its original proposal and together with the european investment bank, tried to develop an instrument called a ‘risk-sharing facility’. one of the major problems we have to deal with at european union level is that we do not all have the same ways of addressing risk. it varies from culture to culture. that is why it is crucial that we create instruments to address that problem. it is not allowing us to be totally in line with the major competitors, especially when we talk about the percentage of gdp invested in research and development. it is crucial that that we stimulate that. that was the idea behind introducing the risk-sharing facility with the eib. it would increase potential, because with each unit of the grant which we would somehow give to the eib, we would get something like four to five units of credit back. it would also give us the opportunity to address some of the more risky businesses which the eib – in line with banking logic – is not addressing. i am sure that this is not a magical answer which will solve our problems, but i sincerely hope that it will be followed by some other financial institutions across europe.
member of the commission. you have touched on one of the most difficult issues with which we are dealing. as you rightly stated, probably the best way of stimulating sme participation is to cut down on red tape. bigger companies do not have to expend the same proportion of their energy on this as smaller companies, and the same is true of the proportion of finances. we are trying to approach this question in a consistent manner: from the financial regulation, to the rules of participation, to the next steps of how we will deal with that in-house, we are trying to cut red tape. it is one of the most difficult exercises we are conducting. however, i am firmly convinced that, with goodwill, we can take a major step towards at least reversing the negative trend. on the same day as we adopted the framework programme, we also adopted the special paper dealing with questions of simplification. in addition, we established a kind of simplification board, consisting of a number of small actors who have been advising us on the preparation of the rules of participation and who will continue to advise us on further in-house simplification processes. i see simplification as a process that we need to address in all phases and which has to be consistently applied throughout the entire period. i hope that, in this major endeavour, i will also obtain the support of the european parliament and the council, because it is to a certain extent a problem we all share.
member of the commission. the proposal for the seventh framework programme includes an extended regional dimension under the capacity-specific programme, with a number of new initiatives that provide european regions with new opportunities for involvement in research and technological development. first of all, a new scheme on regions of knowledge provides support to research-and-development-intensive regional clusters. this follows on from two rounds of experimental activities that have created a lot of interest among our regional stakeholders. members will recall that the first was actually stimulated by the european parliament. the proposal for the seventh framework programme recognises the role of regional actors in developing the research capacity of their region and supports projects focused on regional research-driven clusters. another important new initiative under the capacities-specific programme is the one on unlocking research potential, which aims to develop the research potential in the eu’s convergence regions by supporting secondments of research staff, the acquisition of equipment or the organisation of conferences for technology transfer. activities will also be undertaken on the coherent development of policies, part of the capacity-specific programme that will enable the exchange of experience between policy-makers at regional level. activities are provided for under the strand of research infrastructure that would have important implications for some regions in europe, and, last but not least, the eranet and the eranet+ activities that will also involve research players at regional level. regions have always been partners to the framework programme. the fact that this is now taking one step further, including schemes targeted specifically at regions, must not allow us to forget that the framework programme has contributed to research and development in the regions in many more ways and will continue to do so. framework programme projects help fight regional insularity and technological preventionism. through european research projects, innovative companies in convergence regions will continue to link the major technology networks and to regenerate their profile and capacity, and remote universities will continue to have access to innovative ways of adopting their research models and become, in some cases, real development drivers for the region. sme networks participating in the framework programme will continue to improve their technological competence. marie curie fellowships will maintain support for research and development human resources, with a direct impact on regional research capacities. new features in the framework programme enhance its commitment to improving synergies with european regional policy so as to reinforce the support of the structural funds for research in the regions. through our actions in the framework programme, the commission will try to provide useful models that will enable european regions to become more efficient in designing and implementing research policy and thus be more able to support their research players. in addition, they will become more efficient in using structural funds resources for research investment. this presents a real opportunity to make progress towards the barcelona objective of 3% of gdp investment in research and development in the context of the lisbon strategy. it is obvious that we must address the issue of catching up at european, national and regional levels, and that is clearly acknowledged in the proposal for the framework programme.
member of the commission. the honourable member rightly pointed to a question which also concerns us. the intention of the framework programme in the first place is not balance but excellence. being aware that we have to develop the potential of the regions, the commission’s approach in the proposal is and always has been synergetic. it is crucial that one reads carefully the cohesion guidelines prepared by the commission, which try to give a clear message that the member states, in addressing their problems in the regions, need to take into account the structural and cohesion funds which are important in this respect for catching up with the lisbon goals. as i said before, we also try to do that through our programmes. however, even if we have specific programmes – such as the one concerning the potential of the cohesion regions – we have to go on with an open course of proposals where we choose the most stimulating ones. it is crucial to have incentives to give those that are not on top today a lift upwards.
i have to say, madam president, i thank the commissioner for pointing out that research can be supported through the structural funds. i am very interested in how to manage it and ensure the coherence between the use of structural fund funds, national research efforts and research efforts in the eu in general. how can we manage it so that it becomes a sensible project? the second question is: what amounts can we imagine being allocated to research under the structural funds in relation to the amounts available under the seventh framework programme? the council is talking about 60% of the structural funds going to lisbon objectives.
member of the commission. we are trying to do the best we can, taking into account the contracts and the independence of euronews.
member of the commission. i have to say, madam president, honored member! as regards the application of the cap, it has been a fully recognised principle from the outset that account should be taken of the specific nature of agriculture and the structural differences between the various regions of the union - from finland in the north to the southern tip of italy. and that could be done with the help of state subsidies. state aid for the production and processing of various agricultural products listed in annex i to the ec treaty is currently allowed if three different criteria are met. firstly, the conditions of competition must not be distorted. the aid must be linked to the rest of the common agricultural policy and, of course, must also be compatible with the international commitments we have made. in this context i could mention our wto agreement on agriculture. at the november council meeting, the agriculture ministers set out the political line for the reform of the eu's common sugar policy. under this agreement, limited specific state aid of up to eur 350 per hectare will be granted to sugar beet growers in finland, with a maximum of eur 90 million per year specifically targeted at the eu's 'remote areas'. it was also decided that member states which reduce their sugar quota by more than 50% would be able to receive temporary aid for a transitional period of five years from the marketing year in which the reduction begins or the quota is reduced to less than 50%. in the case of italy, it has already been possible to grant such transitional aid, equivalent to approximately eur 11 per tonne of sugar beet per marketing year. it has been primarily targeted for transport of roe. the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap reform), adopted in 2003 in line with the decisions previously taken in the agricultural field in berlin, gothenburg and brussels, is now being implemented. in the new member states, the reform is clearly within the budgetary framework of the enlarged union, established in brussels in 2002. the adoption of the cap reform has not been accompanied by any desire to renationalize the european agricultural policy.
i have to say, madam president, thank you very much for your reply. first of all, i would like to say that it was good that we had a sugar reform. and i have no doubt that the commissioner is on the right track. i am not questioning the way the reform is designed. i'm probably more looking for a political response, a political statement. i believe that we need more reforms in the agricultural sector in the coming years. i would therefore like to know how the commissioner feels about the use of renationalisation as an instrument in the process of reform. does the commissioner have no qualms about going that way? i think that would mean leaving the cap. in other words, i would like to know what the commissioner's position is on the concept of renationalisation in agricultural policy in the future.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i thank the rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringsdorf, for his work on the report on risk and crisis management in agriculture. we live in a time of great damage from natural disasters, ranging from major floods to droughts and fires. we also have a fresh memory of how infectious animal diseases and their eradication and control have cost europe a lot of money. we want to continue the liberalisation of the eu's agricultural policy in the ongoing wto negotiations. the cap reform was a major and important step in that direction. but i do not think that the commission has shown timely care in proposing how we can prevent and thereby also reduce risks and prevent outbreaks and crises that we would rather be free of. who will cover losses in the event of future outbreaks? how should the market be regulated and managed, especially in those areas of the eu which are not affected by the disease but which are affected nonetheless because of the lack of access to export food? why has the commission not put forward proposals which include insurance cover from private and mutual insurance companies, as the european parliament already asked for two years ago? the many different insurance tools available are used by agriculture and the food industry in everyday life. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. and i would like to say very clearly in conclusion that we do not want to return to the state aid of the past or to the state aid that is disguised.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. the committee on agriculture has a very serious credibility problem. the committee makes decisions that often have only one purpose: to get more money for themselves and their friends. but we all have a shared responsibility here in ensuring that the plenary of the european parliament repeatedly adopts the decisions which the committee on agriculture presents to us. today we are talking about emergency and insurance schemes. the subject is good in itself and there are many good things in the report. but there are some bad things, too, and i want to concentrate on those here. firstly, crisis and insurance schemes should be financed by industry itself, which i am informed that the rapporteur for the green group has fought hard for, but that he has become a minority in the committee. in addition, crisis and insurance schemes must deal with real crises. i think it is good that farmers all over europe are in solidarity with each other if their farms are affected by serious diseases such as bse, foot-and-mouth disease or avian influenza. but when the committee on agriculture defines trade liberalization in the wto as a crisis situation, it does not reflect a sound priority. that is a sign of the agriculture committee's blatant irresponsibility! i very much hope that the alde group here has asked for a split vote so that we can remove this from the resolution. finally, i expect support for the request of the green group to abolish by a split vote the committee's requirement for aid to compensate for the high oil prices. that is the worst thing about the report! it is astonishing how often members of this parliament who are working for a green europe and to prevent the climate catastrophe fail to notice what is going on in the committee on agriculture. it is nothing short of horrifying that the proposal on oil aid can even reach the plenary! the environmental and climate rapporteurs of the groups should have stopped this in its tracks. but what is it really going to take to make the committee on agriculture act less self-absorbed? unfortunately, i do not think anything will happen until the european parliament has a real say in agricultural policy and we get a few more people with more long-term european visions on the committee.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i personally do not like the term 'forced prostitution' because all prostitution is more or less forced, but our group naturally supports the resolution that has been tabled. human trafficking is slave trade - it is discriminatory, degrading and a heinous crime! it is absolutely necessary to step up efforts to help this extremely vulnerable and vulnerable group of trafficked children and women. on my own behalf, i would also like to welcome the fact that there is a good debate on prostitution in general. it's important that we dispel the myth of the happy prostitute. the majority of prostitutes live a shitty life at risk of assault, rape, venereal disease, and so on. nowhere else in our society is it accepted that a working life can inflict such violent damage. and who among us would be happy if his daughter became a prostitute? we must therefore get down to business with this debate!
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i am not sure that this is the case. after the french and dutch rejection of the constitution, the eu summit decided to hold a pause to reflect on the future of europe. it now appears that it was not a pause for thought, but rather a change in the order of who was to ratify when. since the two 'no' votes, the constitution has been approved in luxembourg, cyprus, malta, latvia and, most recently, belgium. estonia is in the process of doing so and finland will approve before it takes over the presidency on 1 july. we were a delegation from the constitutional committee in helsinki the other day. only one small party, the party of the true finns, will respect the french and dutch 'no'. the constitution suggests that ratification can continue until it reaches 80% of the countries, then there must be a special summit. but the constitutional provisions cannot be the basis for amending the treaty of nice, the rule here is unanimity. the constitution is therefore formally dead after the french and dutch no. in the netherlands the government has announced that it will not ratify the rejected text. in france, the leading politicians say the same thing. it is therefore illegal to proceed with the ratification without a new decision unless france and the netherlands play a double game and say one thing at home and another in brussels. i would like to ask the presidency: have france and the netherlands formally accepted that the ratifications can continue without changing the rejected text? would it not be better to use the pause to think of new ideas and then draw up a text that could be approved by the citizens in a referendum in all countries on the same day? a text whose headlines could be openness, closeness and democracy.
mr president, the chairman of my group, the pse group, has spoken about the necessity for action now. it is time for action. i shall focus upon that. we all know that we have slightly better economic growth, but 2.2% instead of 2.1% growth a year as an average is not creating enough employment to seriously bring down our unemployment of 19.5 million. i therefore fundamentally agree with president barroso and the president of the european council. we need more growth. i have two short questions. number one: investment. president of the commission, do you envisage that at the forthcoming european council meeting the governments can get together – perhaps we do not have the capacity and powers in the treaty to force them – to make a sort of intergovernmental agreement to decide to invest in the next two to three years in the goals you have recommended in your papers and recommendations? if you could envisage that, i would be happy because then we will have taken a step towards coordinated investment action. secondly, i was happy to see that the employment council took a decision on flexi-security on the basis of the proposals from the commission. president-in-office, do you envisage that the conclusions will ensure not only flexibility, but also modern security? in france i see a government which only focuses on flexibility and i have seen the reactions of the young people. that is why it is so necessary that we ensure both. i would like your response and if you could give us that response today it would be very timely and wise. it is time to deliver and i hope that we will all join forces. i will do what i can in the european socialist party and i know that my colleague, our group chairman, will do what he can to deliver, because it is now time and people expect us to do that.
mr president, my group would like to propose an oral amendment to this paragraph. our split vote concerns the deletion of the time-limit. we would like instead to insert the words: ‘which should enter into force as soon as possible’. this is to conform to the wording which will be proposed in the 2004 discharge report, in paragraph 55.
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr trakatellis for his great work on the matter before us today. this is certainly one of the areas where public support can be really secured. there is much talk of a somewhat defensive approach to european cooperation at the moment, especially after the constitutional treaty votes in the netherlands and france. however, all the studies show that it is very difficult to find popular opposition to crossborder cooperation in the very areas we are dealing with today. that is why it is of course also important for me to stress that we support the work that has been done so far. we support the attempt to separate the two programmes and we support the idea of ensuring that the programmes are as well-run as possible. i would particularly like to stress that the report includes a proposal from the committee on budgets to ensure that the commission can allocate basic funding for two years at a time through framework partnership agreements. it would like to ensure that the least amount of money goes to bureaucracy and the most money goes to increased efforts in the areas we agree on. with these words i would like to thank mr trakatellis once again for his great efforts and hope that we really succeed in sending a clear signal to the citizens of europe that the eu can make a difference for the benefit of us all in this area.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i would also like to welcome a ceasefire, welcome the laying down of arms and replacing them with ballot papers. i come from an area between denmark and germany where there has been war and conflict for many years and where by giving each other reciprocal rights, by respecting national minorities, by allowing a border to be determined by referendum, old enemies became friends. i have seen the process in northern ireland where we, when we first came as members of parliament, had to go through strict gun control when we entered the hotel. when we came the next few times, it was to a peaceful northern ireland. the process is possible. i hope that peace will also find its final home in spain and the basque country.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. the commission has broken a clear promise to present a complete annual programme, listing all the legislative proposals and their legal basis. we have received only a small selection of the laws and regulations which the commission is carrying out. we have not been given a precise indication of the legal basis, so we cannot see whether the commission is proposing voluntary coordination or binding rules. and it's hard to discuss strategic directives in the dark. does the commission want more power, 'regulation' and centralism or does the commission want to inspire member states to pull in the strings for employment and encourage countries to compete to do their best? the group for independence and democracy wants more freedom for the member states and less power centralised in brussels. the commission must open up to the public. tell us who gives good advice in your 3,000 secret working groups. let's see what the councils have to say. tell us how you spend your taxpayers' money. give the eu's auditors, the ombudsman and the european parliament's committee on budgetary control full access to examine all expenditure. post it on the internet so we can study all the lobbyists' requests. show some trust in the citizens. give us the information we ask for, unless, exceptionally, there's a good reason to shut the public out. i should like to thank the president for quoting montesquieu. it was also he who advocated the tripartite system of power, which does not correspond exactly to the commission's mixing of legislative, executive and judicial powers. so it seems to me that when the commission's powers were designed, they were read by machiavelli rather than by montesquieu.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. the world is facing enormous challenges: poverty, climate change, serious diseases and armed conflict. if the council wants to show global responsibility, it must not be more insistent and fat than the commission and cut over two billion. we need to increase the eu's overall aid to the world's poorest dramatically so that we can live up to our promises. it is important to remember that member states committed to reach the un target of 0.7% of eu gdp by 2015 and have an interim target of 0.56% by 2010. development aid is good, but other issues are even more important, such as fair trade. when the eu at the same time maintains its exorbitant agricultural aid, continues to protect its own markets and even cuts in development aid, a deadly cocktail is created that affects the poorest first, but then all of us. so it is for the sake of our common future that we must live up to the promises made.
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the commission, i would like to congratulate the committee on development, and in particular its chair, mrs morgantini, on this report which puts development at the heart of the negotiations on the economic partnership agreements, the epas. we are in agreement on this, because development is the starting point, the main issue and the priority of our action. we will of course continue to adhere to this throughout the negotiations and when the epas are implemented, when the time comes. first of all, i would like to welcome the fact that we share the same positions on many, many points, such as the importance of dialogue with civil society and the acp national parliaments, the objective of regional integration and economic governance, the role of investment and the diversification of exports. i find in the report positions which i myself have often advocated with our partners, who have a vital role to play in this respect. the central objective of development also implies a flexible approach, allowing for the weaknesses of the economies of the countries concerned, which we are trying to strengthen. this approach is reflected, among other things, in the symmetry of tariff liberalization in favour of the acp, in the flexibility in relation to the opening of their markets, in the extent of product coverage and in the necessary safeguard measures. these are principles which have been firmly embedded in our negotiating positions since day one and which commissioner mendelsson himself has confirmed on several occasions. however, i have also noticed that on some sensitive points the report raises doubts which i consider to be unjustified. the report raises questions, for example, about the consistency of our positions on epas with the commitments made in the cotonou agreement or in the recent declaration on the union's development policy. perhaps it's a communication problem that i'll try to resolve today. there should be no misunderstanding between us, because parliament's support is obviously more necessary than ever for the commission in the delicate negotiating phase we are going through and which is due to end in just over a year. first of all, i think that the compatibility of epas with wto rules must be put in perspective. the commission has to ensure that this is the case if we are to ensure the stability of the epas, as of all our trade agreements. we are also open to improving the wto rules if possible. proposals have been made in this direction, but i believe that we should have no illusions and that we should be aware of the limits and objective difficulties of this approach. but above all, we must not forget the real reason for the existence of the epas, it is not the wto, but the urgent need, largely proven and endorsed in the cotonou agreement, to better use trade as an engine of economic growth in the acp, as has been done for so many other countries, including developing countries. in my view, the success of the economic partnership agreements will depend on three equally important and essential factors. firstly, a negotiation which is genuinely geared to the development of our partners, which, as i said, is our only strategic objective. secondly, the commitment of our acp partners to establish a regulatory framework which is conducive to investment. thirdly, the support that the european union, but also its member states and other donors, will be able to provide to the countries concerned in preparing and implementing the epas. i understand the attention that our partners and parliament are giving to this last point. from the first day i was in the commission i promised to ensure that the necessary answers were given. we have succeeded - and i thank parliament for its support, without which this would not have been possible - in getting the member states to commit themselves to progressively doubling their development aid. i would remind you that this will represent an increase of more than 20 billion euros per year from 2010. we have managed to agree on a strengthening of cooperation between the commission and the member states in the framework of the european consensus adopted in december confirming the priority to be given to aid effectiveness. we decided to focus on africa first and we developed a coherent strategy for africa. a trust fund for infrastructure, including trade-friendly infrastructure, is already in place. in the context of the programming of the 10th edf, we are working with our partners to identify the best ways to support regional economic integration, for which they have themselves developed agendas. economic partnership agreements are part of this action and constitute an important part of it. from this point of view, timing is essential. for example, the loss of tax revenue due to the dismantling of customs tariffs will occur after the entry into force of the epas. they will be mitigated partly by the expected economic growth and partly by the rationalization of tax systems already under way in several countries, often with our support. in addition, macroeconomic support measures are already planned in some regions to facilitate the transition. i can tell you that i am actively working on the idea of measures to accompany economic partnership agreements, particularly in terms of the consequences that they may have, initially, in terms of the means for the functioning, i would say, of the state. i know that some would be in favour of a debate on possible alternatives to epas. personally, i don't think such an academic debate is useful. firstly, there was already a thorough debate when it was agreed in cotonou that epas offered the best advantages in terms of development, access to wto-compatible markets, support for good governance and regional integration. secondly, all the acp countries are still negotiating epas. finally, countries benefit from the effects of market access under the gsp and the everything but arms initiative. we know, however, after almost half a century of unilateral preference under lomé and cotonou, that this preferential access to our market is not enough in itself to meet the needs of our partners. in conclusion, the report reflects our common view on a wide range of issues. i am ready to continue working with you on the goals and challenges that we and our partners face in this complex, ambitious and indispensable project of epas, to put so many countries back on the path to growth and development. tomorrow i have a seminar on east africa. you know that i go around to all the regional organisations and every time i hear the concerns of all the development actors. you have expressed these concerns perfectly and you can imagine how sensitive i am to them. i am extremely sensitive to the reality of the issues you raise and i do not hide from you that investigations, discussions and creativity are proceeding well to develop a range of ways of better accompanying the partner countries and of responding more directly to their concerns. so in conclusion, i thank you, i fully share the essence of what is contained in this excellent report and i remain more than ever open to the idea of a debate with you, particularly on the best ways of accompanying this process.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. the aim of the cotonou agreement and the economic partnership agreements is to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable development. that purpose must not be lost under any circumstances. the idea of reciprocity based on the principle of equality is therefore completely wrong. we are dealing with two very different partners, the eu and the acp, and it is not the acp that should help the eu countries, but the other way round. i am sure that luisa morgantini agrees with me. the only export opportunities for the poor countries are in agriculture, raw materials and so many labour-intensive products such as textiles, which they should be allowed to export to us in the eu without restrictions. the acp countries also have extremely fragile economies. we cannot therefore simply ask these countries to open up 90% of their markets in return for the eu opening up its markets as a kind of payment. and that is the view expressed in the report by mrs morgantini. i hope, therefore, that i am right in interpreting paragraph 17 of the report to the effect that the authorization to impose temporary import restrictions on industries threatened by a sharp increase in imports is of course only for the acp countries. it should not be that we have the right to stop their ability to sell us textiles and agricultural products simply because we have not been able to adapt to the changing competitive conditions of a globalised world. we were also allowed to protect our markets when our economies were developing. but in any case, market protection is a very precarious path to growth and sound economy and therefore it should be a limited and time-limited affair also for the developing countries.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i have voted against and, together with 22 other members of the last parliament, tried in vain to bring legal proceedings against taxpayer subsidies to european political parties. the parties are still artificial: they are not something you can vote for, they are not something you can join, they are not something you can influence, the exception being, strangely enough, the european democrats, the new alliance of european union critics for parties and movements in europe. here you can go to our website, eudemocrats.org, and then you can sign up right from the street without paying for it and be informed and join the various events. the rules governing political parties discriminate against smaller movements, smaller parties and, for example, national minorities. they will never be able to achieve european party status and to receive funding for activities which can be completely identical to those of the major political parties, often their competitors, which are funded from the eu budget. the regulation on european political parties is discriminatory and therefore usually illegal, and we cannot even challenge it before the highest court of the union. the regulation was adopted by a majority decision of the council of ministers, all of whom have an economic interest in the outcome of the vote. and the decision makers are themselves members of the political parties, who now take money from voters who vote for their political rivals in decisions that exclude the rivals. the regulation is supported by a majority in the european parliament, where the majority also has an economic interest in discriminating against difficult minorities. none of the decision-makers see any problem of ability, nor do they see that they are violating the principle of equality and the prohibition of discrimination in eu law. my group wants the regulation to be abolished or at least amended so that everyone is treated equally when carrying out cross-border information activities, for example. why should international conferences organized by social democrats and christian democrats or, for that matter, european democrats be financed by the taxpayers of the european union, while 21 national minorities cannot get funding to discuss perhaps the exact same issues at their own similar conferences? that is not justifiable, mr president. it is clearly illegal discrimination and there should be equality for loke as well as for thor, as we say in denmark.
the president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wanted to be here today for this important debate because it is particularly important that parliament sends a strong signal of how concerned we in the european union are about the situation and developments in belarus. the council has been dealing with belarus not just since last sunday, since the elections, but for a long time. the situation in belarus, the situation and the suppression of human rights, the situation of the opposition, the situation of civil society have been a matter of concern to the council for some time. there is therefore a whole series of measures that the council has adopted in the run-up to the elections, not least a very clear reaction to the announcement by the belarusian government and also by the president to take a hard line against any demonstrators. the word 'terrorist' was even used, the death penalty was mentioned, and we as a council made our views very clear. the election itself, unfortunately, confirmed the negative expectations that had to be made in the light of the events that preceded it, namely the obstruction of the opposition and the suppression of free expression, and led to those unfree elections, as was also noted in particular by the osce/odihr observer mission, which said that these elections were not fair, were not free and did not meet the standards within the osce. the presidency has reacted immediately to the events in belarus and made a statement on this subject at the general affairs council on monday, 20 march. the council discussed this and made very clear its views in the osce/odihr statement published in the afternoon. the question now is, of course, what the consequences of these events are, how the european union should behave. firstly, it was important for the council to react quickly and to send a signal. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good one. the council will be considering in the coming days and weeks what concrete measures should and can be taken to express our dissatisfaction with this situation, but also to influence future developments in this country. i think this explains the difficulty and the need to think carefully about the steps we are taking, because we do not want the steps we are taking to affect the population, civil society. on the contrary, we must now seek to strengthen the free society, the free civil society. we must look for ways to work together, to support the brave people who are gathering here, who are standing here, and we must think about what we are going to do next. the council therefore decided on monday to consider in depth with the commission what these measures might look like. it is very important that the european union's partners also support the measures that the european union is taking and will take. the declaration made by the presidency yesterday afternoon was signed by 40 countries in total. that's a strong signal. in addition to the candidate countries, the stabilisation and association process states of albania, bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and montenegro, the efta states iceland, liechtenstein and norway, and ukraine and moldova have also signed this declaration. it is important that we achieve a broad consensus to send a clear signal. we will of course also have to talk to russia - and here lies a key to the events - about this. we must make it very clear that russia too must adhere to the common values of the european union, that the four areas of cooperation we have repeatedly discussed with russia require that russia too abide by the democratic rules of the game. we will of course also raise this issue in our contacts with russia. in conclusion, i can assure you that we in the council take the situation very seriously, that we are concerned about this country, which is the last country in europe where human rights are not yet respected, where there is no freedom of assembly and no freedom of expression. we will continue to work intensively on this situation with a view to improving it. or, as the foreign minister said spontaneously about the situation after the elections: "even in minsk it will not be winter forever!"
i have to say, madam president, i must apologize for my actions in violation of the basic rules. i would just like to protest against the fact that we are going through with this negotiation. at best, it can be characterized as a waste of time. it is clearly contrary to the rules of procedure to decide suddenly, hours or minutes in advance, to discuss a very important subject. it is an important subject, but what is now being expressed is an unusual democratic complacency, reflected in reactions to the belarusian elections and the repressions that have taken place. it is not a subject that can be taken up at short notice. it is contrary to the rules of procedure and i ask that we stop the debate on this subject and move on to the proper agenda.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, there is a very simple way to achieve openness in the eu: reverse the procedure so that access to all meetings and documents is open unless otherwise decided. that is the way it is here in the european parliament, and the other institutions can learn from it. our legislative committee meetings are open. why can the corresponding discussions not be opened up in the 300 semi-secret working parties of the council? our use of experts is public. why does the commission not want to say who is in the 3000 secret working parties? the motion to reverse the procedure received 200 signatures out of a possible 220 in the convention. no other proposal received such support: all the elected representatives of the national parliaments, all but one of the european parliament, 23 of the 28 governments. the proposal does not even require a treaty amendment, it can be implemented by a simple amendment of the rules of procedure. both the commission and the council can adopt the proposal by a simple majority, 13 out of 25 commissioners, 13 out of the 25 countries in the council. barroso and schüssel, get on with it now so that citizens can have respect for the necessary cooperation across borders.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank the rapporteur for an excellent report which sets out important principles. firstly, there is no alternative to the multilateral trading system. bilateral agreements always benefit the stronger party. we must focus on the developing countries, and they will benefit most from clear multilateral systems so that they can free themselves from dependence on the colonial powers. secondly, it states that the eu must show leadership. this means that the eu must accept that we will pay for the agreements. we must move away from the 'something for something' principle and not focus on what we in the eu can get out of short-term agreements. agreements that combat global poverty also benefit us the most. then there is agriculture. the decision to phase out export subsidies is a good one, but we must also look at the rest of the support schemes, including rural support, which according to undp is very problematic for the world's poorest. finally, i would say that it is good that we have included the ilo and environmental standards in the report, even though it has been too broad.
the free movement of workers is one of the cornerstones of european cooperation. the temporary transitional arrangements which a number of countries - including my own country, denmark - have chosen to introduce for eastern european workers must be abolished as quickly as possible and in a reasonable manner. transitional arrangements must not unduly restrict free movement and we must show solidarity and openness to all citizens of the union. that is why the rules must be made more flexible, so that all unnecessary barriers are removed. but the transitional rules must be abolished only when we have ensured that the travellers from eastern europe are not exploited. the transitional rules in denmark serve as a protection against exploitation and guarantee workers a contractual wage. eastern european workers are too often exploited by employers who pay them much lower wages and put them to work in miserable conditions. it is our responsibility to defend the free movement of workers - it is a fundamental right in the eu. but it is also our responsibility to defend the conditions of workers and to ensure that all citizens have decent pay and working conditions. the transitional arrangements were and are an attempt to reconcile both considerations. we don't have a minimum wage in denmark. the transitional rules have therefore allowed the entry of eastern european workers to be monitored, so that action could be concentrated on those employers who have tried to circumvent the rules on pay and working conditions. it is time to gradually phase out the restrictions.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioners, i have to say that i am very pleased. we have had hearings in parliament on the secondment directive and they have shown that there is nothing wrong with the directive itself, even though it is complicated. but there are massive problems in applying the rules in practice. people do not know their rights, companies do not know what rules they have to follow, public authorities interpret the directive differently. we must therefore do a great deal to inform and administer better, not to amend the directive. the eu and the member states must work together to ensure that better information is available, for example, via the internet and the internet's instant messaging services. we can then really reap the benefits of a single market in services. i look forward to the commission taking initiatives in this area and ensuring that the posting of workers directive will work better in the future.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. madam president, today only selected specialists can read eu law and find out the legal status of a given area. every farmer has to count every cow and cat, but no eu institution knows exactly how many laws we have. we've probably gone through 20,000 rules that take up over 100,000 pages. the legal situation in the fisheries sector, for example, is to be found in over 70 different regulations. why not consolidate all the rules on the same subject into a single law? the citizens themselves can see and read it, which is the first condition for influence. amendments may be highlighted in bold, words to be deleted in italics. then everyone can see what the proposal is. we will also adopt the democratic principle of our own constitutions, namely that no european law can be adopted in future without the european parliament having decided on it. eu law may thus authorise the issuing of decrees, but any decree should be subject to review by a simple majority in the council and parliament. it also abolished all committee procedures, whereby a minority legislates with the commission against the majority of national parliaments and the european parliament. it is absurd that the commission should have been able to allow genetically modified cornflakes when 14 out of 15 countries were against it and country number 15 was also against it when their citizens discovered what had actually been decided behind closed doors! open up the whole legislative process to the citizens, and we will have better laws too!
i have to say, madam president, the european parliament must be the standard-bearer for better legislation. the work of the european parliament must be transparent, clearly formulated and, above all, we must remove the administrative barriers in european legislation. i therefore have an appeal to the leadership of this parliament: we must coordinate our legislative work better so that we do not again find ourselves faced with the fact that the committees are proposing changes which are contradictory to each other. at the same time, we must give priority to legal certainty and predictability for our citizens and not leave too much discretion to the authorities or the court of justice. the president of the european council, the austrian prime minister, has attacked the court of justice of the european communities for taking too much power. but the court is simply doing its job because we legislators are not doing our job well enough. i am afraid that with the services directive we are repeating past mistakes and leaving too much interpretation to the court of justice. we all need to do better on the second reading.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to pass on greetings from my colleague, mr dimas. please allow me to introduce the position of the european commission on this matter. first of all, i would like to express my appreciation to the delegation of parliament that took part in the conciliation meeting with the council on 31 january. in particular i would like to express my thanks to vice-president trakatellis and to the rapporteur, mrs doyle, and to congratulate them on the outcome. the discussions in the conciliation committee were constructive and the final outcome on key issues – such as standards for containment, labelling, placing on the market, promotion of alternatives, as well as on a number of other important topics – is satisfactory. the commission can therefore support the conciliation text and i would encourage parliament to endorse the very good result obtained by its negotiating team. i believe that the regulation on f-gases, as well as the directive on mobile air conditioners in cars, will make a significant contribution to the eu’s fight against climate change and to our efforts to achieve our kyoto emission reduction target. the commission estimates that the legislation that we are discussing today will, by 2012, cut emissions of fluorinated gases by some 20 million tonnes of co2 equivalent annually. that implies a reduction of 20% compared to 1995. in the absence of measures, emissions of fluorinated gases would have risen by 50% in the same period. from 2020, when all measures will be fully implemented, the effect will be a reduction of 40-50 million tonnes of co2 equivalent. eu climate policy builds on close cooperation between the commission and member states. only through common and combined action, at european and at national level, will the european union be effective in reducing its emissions of greenhouse gases. the commission therefore welcomes measures taken by member states to reduce national emissions in order to meet their burden-sharing target. in that context, however, the commission’s responsibility is to preserve any right it might have to ensure that all actions carried out to reduce emissions of f-gases are compatible with the treaty. that is why the commission should like issue the following declaration on the question of stricter national measures: ‘the commission notes the agreement between the european parliament and the council on the insertion in the regulation of a provision allowing member states to maintain, until 2012, more stringent national measures compared to those laid down in the regulation, should these measures be adopted before 31 december 2005. it results from the treaty that if, after the adoption of a harmonised measure, a member state considers it necessary to maintain national measures that are justified by important requirements specified in article 30 of the ec treaty, or relating to the protection of the environment or of the working environment, this member state notifies them to the commission, indicating the reasons for their maintenance. additionally, the treaty specifies the rules for the acceptance or rejection of these measures by the commission. the commission is therefore obliged to reserve its position on this issue, including any right it may have under the treaty.’ once again, i thank parliament for its open and constructive approach on the f-gases package. the outcome is strong and effective legislation, which, once again, demonstrates the european union’s capacity to match its words with concrete deeds in its climate policy.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur of this parliament, mrs doyle, who has done an eminent job on this matter. it has been a real pleasure to be a member of the conciliation committee. on behalf of the alde group, i would like to thank you warmly for the good cooperation. the outcome of the conciliation committee is a victory for europe's environment and for europe's citizens. countries such as denmark and austria, which have gone further with their f-gas bans, have been compensated and other countries can follow suit. it proves that the eu puts the environment at the forefront of its agenda. when the european parliament adopts the conciliation committee's text tomorrow, with a hopefully very large majority, i assume that environment commissioner dimas will take the opportunity to withdraw the commission's letter of formal notice to denmark. that should be a natural consequence of this new legislation. now that community law has changed, there will be no basis for bringing a case against denmark before the court of justice. it has been appalling to hear in the corridors that the commission's legal service has refused to accept the result of the conciliation or has tried to misinterpret it. let me remind the commission that it is absolutely unheard of and totally unacceptable and, moreover, destructive to cooperation and to confidence in the commission if the new community legislation is not administered by the commission. the agreement and the content of the conciliation text have been agreed by the council and the european parliament. the commission has participated and is therefore co-responsible for the agreement of 31 january 2006. therefore, commissioner, withdraw the letter of formal notice against denmark after the vote tomorrow, when a large majority in parliament has said yes to the text. anything else will be unacceptable for future cooperation.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, i have some very good news: commission president josé manuel barroso and vice-president günter verheugen have today promised to withdraw the three letters of formal notice on f-gases which are currently in progress. the commission thus accepts the compromise reached between the council and parliament in the conciliation procedure. the commitment is particularly welcome because the commission had adopted a statement in which it reserved the right to declare the austrian and danish f-gases ban illegal. the statement was a provocation, which we can now put aside. i would like to thank mr barroso and mr verheugen for their personal support in this matter. and i would like to thank the president of the european council, mr wolfgang schüssel, who has given his personal support to a matter which was initially lost on the floor of the council of ministers when austria took over the presidency. and then there is indeed reason to thank ourselves in this house for having voted for the much-talked-about amendment no 45, which made victory possible. with amendments we will make the f-gas decision a minimum rule whereby countries are allowed to go further in protecting our common climate. we need 367 votes to have real influence on the elected representatives - we got 370 votes! and we therefore owe a great deal of thanks to the chairman of the committee on the environment, karl-heinz florenz, and the rapporteur, avril doyle, for their steadfast support for minimum standards, despite the fact that they were subjected to strong pressure - including from within their own group. and i would particularly like to congratulate you because a clear precedent has now been set for us to be able to introduce minimum rules, even when the legal basis is the internal market rules. we will have more opportunities to take account of safety, health, the environment, working conditions, consumer protection and animal welfare. we are one step away from uniformity and so-called total harmonization. i hope that this will not be a solitary swallow but rather a new direction for european cooperation. the citizens will thank us if we ensure a common level of protection by majority decisions and at the same time allow countries to be the countries of the future. in this way, all citizens can experience progress. no danes or austrians will understand if the commission makes its action on climate change a political priority and at the same time punishes denmark and austria for taking a particular action. neither could mr verheugen, mr dimas or mr barroso. the eurocrats in the commission services will hopefully now be put in their place. we, the elected, have made a difference. we can be proud of our joint efforts. the next task is to convince all countries that there are technical alternatives so that we can have a common eu ban on f-gases, and ideally by 2012, when the kyoto agreement must be renewed with a handshake for future generations. i hope that mr barroso and mr verheugen will stand firm against those who try to drag them into the dirt.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i was going to make another speech, but after listening to the debate here, i have to thank mrs doyle for a very good effort. i cannot see, however, that her efforts would have borne fruit. the commission is explicitly saying that only those countries which have stricter rules now can be allowed to adhere to those rules. there's nothing about moving on. there is no guarantee that denmark will be able to go on. when i think of the zeal with which mrs doyle's proposal was opposed at second reading, i do not understand where mr bonde, mr busk and the others get their optimism. there are no good signs. we are faced here with a proposal which is an affront to all good environmental forces. there's a substitution. there are alternatives. we have efficient refrigerators in denmark and austria, and yet they have chosen to benefit the f-gas industry rather than the environment. i do not see what could be in the commission's statement that would promise anything different. so i would like to thank no one but mrs doyle for her fine but rather fruitless efforts.
mr president, as one who was in copenhagen when we formulated the copenhagen criteria in 1993, i have one opening wish to express to the commissioner: that we do not make any new claims to bulgaria and romania compared to the ones we always have based our enlargement politics upon. no new claims, no extra demands, but exactly the same claims and demands as we have asked from all our member countries, i take that for granted. secondly, as our group chairman mr schulz said today, it is our common feeling that we have passed that critical mass where we can say that romania and bulgaria are capable now to come into the european union. they are not perfect in all aspects. there are still problems ahead – you have mentioned some of them and we have mentioned some of them, but our common judgement is that we are on the road, the direction is there. to tell you the truth, as you know commissioner, i can still see corruption problems in some of the existing member countries within the european union. even in my own country i can see some types of crime which we can see also in other existing member countries. so please, commissioner, do not make your judgement – and i know you will not, but i am just saying it – based on the number of cases in bulgaria or romania. it is about direction, reform, legislation and decisiveness to implement. i can assure you that both in bulgaria and romania immunity has been now moved away as an obstacle for bringing cases against members of the parliament or other personalities within the societies. that is very important. finally, as president of the european socialist party, i should like to point out that i totally agree with my group colleagues mr schulz and mr swoboda. we find that it is best to take the two countries in now. over the next few months – until november and then the european council meeting in december – we should look into how and whether we should formulate some transitional claims at the top of membership as of 1 january. (applause)
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. the situation in palestine is tense. the people are facing a brutal blockade because they have elected someone the west does not like. now they are isolated behind israel's separation wall with no opportunity to create a healthy economy of their own. the only people who stand to gain from what's happening right now are the extremists. the danger of the whole thing exploding is actually imminent. we were seven members of parliament from the five major groups who visited the area two weeks ago and had meetings with representatives of all the parliamentary groups, including change and reform, which is the parliamentary wing of hamas. it became clear that they recognise the 1967 borders and therefore israel. hamas has now for 18 months refrained from using serious violence against israel, while israel has systematically bombed gaza and regularly killed civilians, including children. hamas has not objected to the plo's adherence to the agreed negotiating line. in short, if the eu really wanted to, it would not be difficult to find ways of cooperating with the palestinian authorities in order to strengthen the peaceful development and democratization of hamas. but we do not do that, and at the same time we accept that israel is flouting all the eu's conditions. the double standards of the eu and the us are obvious. why should israel not recognize palestine and the 1967 borders? why should they not respect the ruling of the court of justice in the hague and remove the illegal wall? why should they not stop the annexation of east jerusalem? in violation of the so-called roadmap, etc., they are now building in e1. why should they not pay back the palestinians' own money, that is, all the money they have illegally withheld? mr solana has said that they should. mrs ferrero-waldner has made that very clear. but they don't, and there's no worldly things happening. the lawlessness is spreading and it is our responsibility, that is to say the responsibility of the european union, because we allow israel to blow up all the agreements. it is impossible, however, to explain the double standard to which we have become accustomed vis-à-vis israel when dealing with the palestinians. they don't understand that, and that may be the most dangerous thing we're doing right now. it's not the money, it's our unbearable double standard.
for the pse group. i am not sure that this is the case. i would also like to start by agreeing with what mr stubb said. it is a scandal that we should be discussing such an important point as the discharge procedure at such an advanced stage after we have had a one-minute debate where subjects such as whether mr prodi was a kgb agent and the like have come up. i must say with a little bit of gallows humor, but still with a grain of truth, that perhaps today, just today, it is very good that people outside our building are not interested in what we are doing. because we would be laughed at, i think, if anyone actually saw what we prioritized on the agenda ahead of this very, very important item. i want to thank mr mulder. you have done an excellent job with the report you have written. i think the whole process has been good and constructive. only then can we achieve the fine result you have achieved. a result that will have a large majority in this parliament. that is very, very important in a procedure as important as the discharge procedure. i also agree with your recommendation that we naturally give the commission discharge. of course, we must make some comments, because unfortunately the basic point is that we are not satisfied this year either. unfortunately, not enough has been done. unfortunately, there are too many areas where we still cannot give satisfactory assurances that taxpayers' money in europe is being managed in a sound manner. that said, there is still reason for optimism. there are some areas where things are moving forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, that is commendable. it is also worth mentioning that in this procedure, as regards our request for an annual audit report from the national governments, agreement has been reached between the various institutions on the financial perspective, which is in line with our wishes. of course, we should be happy about that too. i would like to conclude by saying a few words about what has been my own heartfelt wish in this process, namely the fulfilment of our demand for more transparency, more openness. it is about the commission's working groups and the many committees within the commission. it is a question of the individual countries in relation to the expenditure paid. on this point i welcome the commitments which i believe the commissioners have made today.
for the uen group. i am not sure that this is the case. first of all, i would like to thank my good colleague mr mulder for his very careful work and the other rapporteurs as well. it is of course regrettable that we are again this year without a clean audit report. as we know, the eu should be a model for the member states, especially for the new countries with new and untested administrations. i doubt, however, that we are setting a particularly good example with such a major problem as the fact that we are not yet able to produce a clean audit report. i agree with mr mulder that it is unsatisfactory that the member states are not prepared to make declarations on the control of the funds they have received. we must make sure that this is put in place. it is also true that the commission cannot be held responsible for its administration alone, but that the council and the member states also have a responsibility. i cannot recommend discharge in a number of situations or cases simply because we are giving it blindly. in some areas we are taking on a task which we are not really capable of carrying out. the situation with regard to parliament's accounts, as described by mr ferber today, is proof of this. yesterday we were sure that everything was in order and we were ready to discharge, and overnight we have become wiser. it is quite a coincidence that we are today in a situation where we have to ask for a delay in the discharge because we simply do not know enough. it is quite strange that for 25 years both the administration of parliament and our audit have overlooked something which - at least they say they have - is a highly offensive payment to the city of strasbourg. it is, in fact, a middleman's advance to a completely unnecessary middleman. and if anyone in our administration wants to tell us that they didn't know, i have to say that i don't believe that the administration is that incompetent. and one has to ask whether it is really possible to conclude such economic agreements without carefully assessing the various options and offers. no, of course it's not that. someone has helped someone to get an unfair share of the taxpayers' money, and if i know the system right, no one is being held responsible, because of course no one knew anything. as the previous president of the commission, mr prodi, said about the eurostat scandal: 'what you do not know, you cannot be responsible for'. well, don't read the contracts, and you can always say you didn't know anything and therefore be free of responsibility. as i said, we could have got away with discharge, but we are not doing it. i can recommend the postponement as proposed by mr ferber. and in the other areas our position is set out in the report.
mr president, on behalf of the uen group, i wish to support mr ferber’s proposal. we have not drawn any conclusions at this stage but we want six more months to investigate this case thoroughly.
for the pse group. mr president, in denmark, where i come from, we have a long tradition of eel fishing, as in so many other places in the community, and in many places eel is an important food. this tradition is not only in denmark but throughout the community, now threatened by the critical state of the eel stock. european eel is now so depleted that the stock is only about 1% of the level of earlier times. this is not only an untenable situation, it is also a major challenge for the common fisheries policy. and finally, i must say that this is the last call. the overall aim of the report is that each member state should draw up a national eel management plan for each waterway system. and the very fact that the report covers every water system is very important. those plans shall create a high probability that a high percentage of the biomass of adult eels can be released back into the sea. the commission's original proposal called for a rate of drawback of about 40%. i thought that was good, and i would have preferred that we had kept at it. another point which i am very pleased about and which mr maat also mentioned is that we now have special measures to ensure that the laying of young can continue. it's absolutely crucial that we have offspring. because if we don't, we have no chance of restoring the stocks. i think that mr maat has done a good job with this report and i would like to thank him for that. i think that there is something that can be used now and that is of great importance to us all, and i hope that both the contribution of parliament and the discussion that will take place in the council of fisheries ministers will result in the drawing up of an action plan which means that we will have the eel stock restored. because, as i said at the outset, we are now at the point where, if effective action is not taken for each member state, eel in the community as such will be a mere saga, and we have an obligation to safeguard the eel stock.
mr president, i would like to thank you. since western sahara is not a sovereign state, international law applies to its population. under international law, this group of people has the right to self-determination through its recognized representatives. this means that if an agreement is to be concluded, the people of western sahara must be involved and they must be provided with financial support. the legal service of the european parliament has stated that as long as the moroccan authorities compensate the people of western sahara financially for the resources taken from their waters, the agreement is not in breach of international law. however, the agreement does not provide for compensation. in fact, the people of western sahara are not mentioned, and they have not been involved in the conclusion of agreements. i do not think that it is the task of the committee on fisheries to resolve the conflicts between morocco and western sahara, but it is important to me that international law is respected and that the people of western sahara do not end up as losers in this agreement. that is why i also think it is important that we vote in favour of the amendments excluding the territory of western sahara. if these amendments are adopted, i think it could end up being a good deal. if you don't, it's a bad deal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. put the constitution aside and start over. let us elect a convention directly with the task of drafting a democratic constitution and a cooperation agreement between democracies. let the voters then choose between them in a referendum on the same day in all countries. we'll have the rules of the game that the american people want. and until then, implement concrete reforms with openness, closeness and democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let the national parliaments check their commissioners every friday, and why not let the voters choose their own commissioners directly next time. i am convinced that the european parliament has a duty to support the european union's efforts to achieve a lasting peace and stability in the region. last year, the eu adopted 3 124 rules. the european parliament was one of the 57! remove the democratic deficit now, and listen to those who voted no. the european council is to meet in copenhagen on friday. in the official programme there is not a single speaker to represent the french and dutch 'no'. you listen to each other more than anyone else, and the commission funds events, think tanks and movements for the failed constitution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
commissioner, i would like to express my respect for your work but, as with all work, it is also necessary to have clarity. my only problem today is the lack of clarity. you are saying that our goal is to get the two countries on board on 1 january 2007. that is what we are all looking for. i cannot see any fundamental reason not to let them in on 1 january. so what we are really talking about is how we can promote further progress with those two countries as much as possible. the appeal i am making to you has already been mentioned by the chairman of my group, mr schulz, and by mr swoboda and other colleagues. if we seriously expect further progress in the next three and a half months, before your next report in october, what can be done in that time? what do we expect? a new state prosecutor in bulgaria? no. to what extent does immunity need to be lifted? how many cases do we need to raise? how many decisions in court do we need? do you see what i am getting at, commissioner? what we need now, if these countries are to work with us, is for you to be very precise. i have a suggestion to make to you. i propose that you make a scoreboard to present to the two new governments in bulgaria and romania, a precise scoreboard showing what we want of them in the next three and a half or four months in particular areas. it is not enough to say that we expect progress. it is very important to say what exactly we expect of them in justice and home affairs, so that the two governments know exactly what to do. the second thing i want to ask of you, commissioner, with all due respect, is that there should be no extra work later. as some members of the bulgarian government said to me recently, ‘we cannot change our constitution every other week’. what we really need now is to be precise in our demands. my final hope is that the june council will take a clear decision. as mr moscovici said, it is time now to send a clear signal, and the june council can send a clear signal that they are welcome on 1 january 2007 and that we look forward to working with them. (applause)
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! it has been a long process to reach agreement on budgetary discipline and in parliament we have done a thorough job of reviewing the needs and developing common political priorities. this has been done for more than a year under the very competent leadership of our rapporteur, reimer böge, who has done an exemplary job. but the eu's heads of government fell into an ugly war of words about revenue and expenditure, with headlines such as 'we will not pay', 'maximum 1%' and 'we want our money back'. that is why the compromise we are discussing today is a compromise indeed. not very beautiful, no one is really satisfied - that's the art of the possible. but the optimist in us would stress that it is good that there is now a framework. this will facilitate the legislative work on the structural funds, research and training programmes. in addition, the framework provides more resources for investment in education, research and transport and for support to the poorest regions of the eu, while spending on agricultural aid is cut. and i therefore recommend that you vote yes to the agreement. we have ensured that the administration of the eu budget is less bureaucratic. we have ensured that member states have clear responsibility for the management of eu funds. we have ensured that the european investment bank can finance much more ambitiously, and we have ensured that more young people can be exchanged in the training programmes, and that the eu budget for health and consumer protection was not subjected to the cutbacks that the heads of government had intended. but the frame is tight, so tight you can feel it! for example, the commission proposed 20 billion for investment in crossborder transport projects. parliament backed the commission, but the result has been only about eur 7 billion. how are we to finance the 30 projects that have been approved, which are cross-border? i think the council owes us an answer as to how the joint projects can be realised.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european parliament is now reaching a compromise with the council of ministers on a molbo budget for the next seven years. more than a third of eu money is officially spent on agriculture, but it does not reach farmers. the total net income of danish farmers in agriculture is only a quarter of the direct subsidy. it shows the madness! farmers could get four times more in total net income if the money was sent to them directly outside the various schemes. another third is officially allocated to regional development and the structural funds. the reality is that poor people in remote areas are direct net payers to the union budget. in latvia, 80% of eu aid goes to riga. the poor people in the countryside pay a large quota to the eu for their daily purchases, but the money does not come back from the eu to those who pay. it's the other way round, robin hood, you take from the poor and give to the rich! let the new countries not have to pay quotas! focus structural fund aid on the poorest areas in the poorest countries and start by cutting the top of agricultural aid so that no one can receive more than, say, eur 30 000. start the budget reshuffle now by voting against the fiscal compromise.
mr president, when we extend the single market to neighbouring countries we should not only promote the economic dimension of the european union but, as when we promoted the single market within the union itself, we should also include the social dimension. the balance between the two parts is lost when it concerns the energy community treaty. for instance, does the treaty not include participation of the social partners? on other occasions parliament, the council and the commission underline the importance of social dialogue. early participation of the social partners in the relevant sectoral dialogue committees, like those in the electricity and mining sectors, has been positive for the social partners in the new member states. we know that liberalisation of the internal market for electricity and gas will necessitate many structural changes and new challenges for the companies and the workforce, as also for the citizens, with regard to affordable prices and security of supply. we demand a commitment on the part of the participating countries to respect and implement the european charter of fundamental rights, and i hope that the commission and the council will work towards a good memorandum, with legally binding statutes that also secure democratic control over the sector. they should, furthermore, guarantee to oversee the work of the regulatory authorities and the resources and consultation processes of the relevant stakeholders.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank our rapporteur, james elles, for his visionary approach to the work on the 2007 budget. visionary, because it's years in the future. visionary because it emphasises the completion of the new foreign policy framework, and visionary because it focuses on the part of the budget that is to ensure economic growth and strengthen the eu's global competitiveness. i would particularly like to emphasize the new cost-benefit approach in the budget, whereby we assess the benefits of each programme year by year in relation to its costs. the information we gather in this way will of course be incorporated into an evaluation and a mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework in 2008-09. it is now that we must prepare the ground for the rearrangement of the budgetary framework away from things that do not work well, to new needs. the eu budget must be efficient and 'something for something'. all this work must be done in close cooperation with the trade committees. in recent years, we have thus developed an increasingly close cooperation with the trade committees in the preparation of the annual budget. in the field of foreign affairs, we now have to complete the new rules, under which parliament is helping to develop the strategic framework and thus has a basis for monitoring the policy pursued. we can thus see whether we are achieving the objectives set by the budget. the way in which this is done must of course be developed, and it is important that this work gets off to a good start. the new budgetary framework means that there will be a nice increase in the part of the budget that goes to research, innovation, education and transport. i would like to stress, however, that the appropriations for transport investments do not meet the ambitions that the member states themselves have set for the transeuropean networks. the commission has done everything it can to ensure that the projects are implemented much better, and now the council must show that it is going to live up to its own decisions. it is the responsibility of the member states to find the funding when they do not want to pay through the budget.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are discussing with him today an honest champion of a united states of europe. he's not hiding his target. he's not denying facts. he has even written a bold self-critical laken declaration, criticizing the existing eu, which most eu critics share. unfortunately, it was forgotten in the constitutional convention. and courage failed when belgium was about to ratify the constitution. the desire to get closer to the citizens through openness and democracy was over. the belgians were not to be consulted in a referendum. the belgian people were not to be able to vote against the constitution, like the flemish in the netherlands and the walloons in france. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left to its own devices. fat to the verhofstadt. get your colleagues to join you in burying the rejected constitution. arrange direct elections for a new convention. get proposals drawn up that are put to a referendum in all countries simultaneously. until then, open all meetings where laws are passed. put all the documents on the internet. the annual legislative programme should be adopted by the national parliaments. let the commissioners appear in the european committees of the national parliaments and be associated with the national democracies. promise me that you will never again give belgian support to a law which has not first won a majority in either the belgian parliament or the european parliament.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has adopted a report on the situation in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the competitiveness and innovation framework programme (cip) aims to contribute to the eu's innovation capacity and competitiveness, with a particular focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, in line with the lisbon strategy's objectives of growth and jobs. i am glad that the programme has been given a broad definition of innovation, so that the definition also includes non-technological innovation. this ensures that the cip programme also targets enterprises in, for example, the experience industries. value creation occurs at all stages of the value chain, which is why innovation in distribution, marketing or management is as important as innovation in production. in the context of the current debate on the way forward for europe in energy policy, it is positive that the environmental focus that has been the driving force behind the intelligent energy for europe programme has been maintained. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, which are among the areas where more innovation can best contribute to the eu's competitiveness. a major challenge in relation to the cip is to create the necessary synergies with other programmes. i think it is essential to ensure good coordination between the cip, the seventh framework programme for research, the lifelong learning programme and, in particular, the structural funds. finally, i would like to emphasize that i consider equality to be an important dimension of the sip. if we are to increase the number of entrepreneurs in europe, we need to get more women to take up the challenge. that is why we must remove the barriers that women face. i hope that the commission will focus on the gender dimension of entrepreneurship and i am very pleased that the programme allows for microfinance, as this is a form of finance that is particularly beneficial to women.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, i would also like to thank mr grech for a good and thorough work on parliament's 2007 budget. it is just under 1.4 billion euros, and i would like to stress three things. firstly, almost half of the expenditure is due to the geographical dispersion of parliament's activities and the fact that we work in several languages, conditions which are quite specific to the european parliament but conditions over which we are not masters ourselves. secondly, i would like to emphasize the need for continuous improvements in efficiency and re-prioritization, and particularly the personnel policy, where re-prioritization is needed. i would stress the need for better facilities for members to enable them to work more efficiently, and i would stress the need to make information policy more effective, including a careful assessment of the work of the national information offices. the third point i would like to raise is the question of the purchase of buildings in strasbourg. there is a lot of public talk about this and it would be totally unacceptable if it turned out that the location of parliament in strasbourg was a money-maker for the city. so we have to put off buying buildings for now. i would personally prefer that parliament should be confined to brussels, so that we can work effectively on this point too.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is an important report that we are adopting today and i am glad that the subject is now being brought into focus. i am particularly pleased with the focus now on women as peacemakers. in wars and conflicts, the first victims are the weakest: women, children and the elderly. women are subjected to horrific abuses such as violence, rape and worse. but women must not be seen as mere victims. women can make an important contribution to peace, the reintegration of child soldiers and the establishment of political dialogue between the parties to the conflict. it is important that we ensure adequate funding for projects where women can play an active role as conflict solvers. it is important that we establish greater cooperation with local women's organisations and it is important that we maintain the need to integrate the gender dimension in peace research, conflict prevention and conflict resolution. i would like to thank mrs de keyser for this important report and the excellent work she has done, and i hope that the commission will take this report positively and start concrete work immediately to improve the situation of women in armed conflict.
in writing. we are opposed to the liberalisation of energy markets. we do not believe it is essential to enhancing competitiveness, tackling energy prices and enhancing of security of supply and energy efficiency. however, we have decided to vote in favour of the report as it contains positive proposals relating to energy efficiency, conservation and access to energy by disadvantaged members of society.
in writing. even though the report as a whole is progressive concerning the situation of women in armed conflicts and their role in the reconstruction and democratic process in post-conflict countries, we have decided to abstain due to the paragraphs which state support for the european security and defence policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. from the beginning of the environmental struggle in the 1970s, groundwater was at the centre. we warned that both industry and agriculture threatened this precious resource. "doomsday prophet", the others shouted at us, "it'll take at least 30 years". yes, thank you! in many places it has gone much faster, but in some member states we have managed to keep groundwater clean, to avoid the dubious concessions of all those who spoke of healthy water instead of clean water with built-in tolerance for what humans and animals can tolerate. the attacks on our clean water continue. we have had a fairly viable groundwater directive which has allowed member states to maintain the requirement of clean water. then we got a really good water framework directive - a directive that has done the eu a great deal of good. but what's going on? the agricultural lobby is now seeking to destroy the water framework directive by means of serious weaknesses, as we see with the proposal for the new groundwater directive. fortunately, the environment committee has managed to repair the damage. it is now absolutely essential that these improvements be adopted. eeb has pointed out that 87% of european agricultural land is more polluted than the current guidelines recommend. in may the eeb sent us a letter with a strong recommendation to support the recovery efforts which will be put to the vote on wednesday. this is particularly the case with amendments nos 22, part 1, 24, 26 and 38, which all seek to clarify the rules, and also amendments nos 36, 42 and 43, which stop the absurd exemptions for agriculture from the directive - exemptions which would be a clear-cut scandal both for groundwater and for the reputation of the european union. the greens/efa group will never be able to support the proposed reductions if these proposals are not adopted.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women 's rights and gender equality . mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the disparity between men and women is very prevalent in the world of research. it prevents the achievement of the lisbon objectives and it is a barrier to europe's competitiveness. the very fact that european women are still underrepresented in the world of research is an expression of the fact that europe has a huge potential which is not being exploited. it is a fact that women have difficulty in obtaining research positions simply because they are women. although the number of female graduates today is greater than the number of male graduates in almost all european countries, women face major obstacles in the male-dominated scientific labour market. we're gonna have to do something about that. it is therefore important that the commission, in implementing the seventh framework programme, takes account of the gender dimension and will help to ensure that young female candidates have the same opportunities as men in the competition for research funding. the composition of the new european research council is nothing short of a scandal. of the 22 researchers, only four have been appointed. the eu has a set of general equality rules, and these rules should of course also apply to the european research council. we have proposed to the women's committee that the research council should have a gender balance by always having at least 40% of each gender. i'm not going to let you do this. i really hope you will think about what kind of signal we are sending to the european research community by presenting such a skewed gender composition. it certainly does not contribute to the breakdown of the gendered labour market in the research world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. research and development is a vital prerequisite for our prosperity, since we in europe must now live by producing knowledge and ideas. the research framework programme is therefore an important tool for the union's future ability to compete internationally. no eu country can alone mobilise the critical mass needed to compete with china or the us, but together eu countries can mobilise the resources to take on the competition. and it is precisely in our diversity in europe that we find an important key to greater creativity. i am pleased that the international dimension of the framework programme is given further priority over fp6. international cooperation is no longer a separate part of the programme but is instead integrated horizontally into the individual themes and specific programmes. this is how we adapt research to global realities. i hope that this priority will also be reflected in the number of international projects. the current depopulation of europe's outermost regions is a matter of urgency and we must maintain research in the outermost regions by creating attractive working conditions for researchers. i am therefore also pleased that it will now be possible to coordinate the efforts of the seventh framework programme and the regional fund. it creates opportunities for regional partnerships between research institutions, public authorities and businesses. it can be an important injection of salt water into regional development. today, scientists no longer have to sit in ivory towers. it is more important than ever that the dissemination aspect of research be integrated. if society is to reap the full benefits of european research, we must ensure that the results of research are brought into play by citizens, public authorities and business. high-quality research dissemination helps to legitimize public investment in research vis-à-vis the public. energy research has become a separate thematic priority within the framework of cooperation. there is a great need for research into energy technologies which can help europe to achieve its energy policy objectives in the field of .... (the president withdrew the speaker).
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think the judgment of september represents a very exciting challenge. i have taught law at various universities for many years and the report before us from the committee chaired by mr gargani would not have received a particularly high mark at the faculty of law at the university of copenhagen. first of all, the contradiction is overcome that the judgment first states, in paragraph 47, that criminal law and the rules governing the handling of criminal cases, that is, criminal justice, do not fall within the competence of the community, but that the judgment nevertheless makes a political leap forward and states that this consideration cannot, however, prevent the community legislature from adopting measures relating to the criminal law of the member states under certain conditions, where it is considered necessary. in my limited opinion, this is an absurdity, which means that, when you do not have the authority in advance, you create the authority on a political basis, and this will certainly meet with serious resistance in the most developed democracies within the european union. i would like to refer here, with all due respect, to the nordic democracies. they will not join a system which can manipulate the law in this way - except that it is not unreasonable that criminal law and criminal procedure are the responsibility of the member states. it is something which - as was said at the beginning - reflects a legal tradition which cannot be harmonized and should not be dictated. there is therefore no legal basis and i would therefore recommend that the amendment tabled by the ind/dem group be voted on.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i am not sure that this is the case. you better start fresh. set up a new directly elected convention to draft proposals that can then be put to a referendum in all countries simultaneously. then we'll have the rules of the game that the voters want. then we can call the european union a democracy and a federation of democracies. the text of the summit on openness is a fig leaf. last year, the eu adopted over 3000 acts. 57 of these acts were adopted by codecision. full transparency and co-decision were also agreed at the seville summit in 2002 and again at the end of tony blair's presidency. now it's blair's own foreign secretary, margaret beckett, who is trying to block progress at the last second. when it is adopted anyway, all journalists can write the cheery story of how the summit meets citizens and adopts progress for openness. but the majority of eu laws will continue to be adopted by officials in 300 secret working groups under the council, after they have been prepared in 3000 other secret working groups under the commission. openness and democracy will continue to be the exception. the real progress of the summit is the support for the commission's proposal that all proposals should in future be examined in detail in the national parliaments. it is a good proposal and the ball is now in the national parliaments' court. i hope they know their visiting hours.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have an appeal to the eu heads of state or government when they meet in brussels tomorrow and on friday. first of all, they must involve the eu in national debates. when reforms are discussed in the member states, the eu is never mentioned. indeed, the eu is a completely unknown concept when the welfare state is under review. in germany, france and, in my own country, denmark, among others, we are currently discussing what economic reforms are needed to ensure future prosperity. but all national politicians, ministers as well as ordinary members of parliament, should be made aware that a strong and effective union is simply necessary and is a prerequisite for any welfare society. why then this noisy silence? what good is it that the commission and we in parliament devote so many resources to dialogue with the citizens when national politicians are failing so fatally? in the liberal group we have always worked for transparency in the council of ministers. why is britain now suddenly hesitating after tony blair here in parliament had promised to open the ministerial meetings? that's just not good enough! openness about the work of the eu is an absolute necessity if we are to get closer to the citizens. i would therefore urge all heads of state or government to open the meetings of the council of ministers so that everyone can see how things are going and see that there is hopefully nothing to hide and see whether the ministers have been present at all. it also avoids 25 different press conferences where everyone is a hero. and i look forward to the positive response of the presidency to president borrell's call for the 'one seat' eu action.
mr president, there is an old saying that if you do not fight, you do not count. mr barroso, i like to see you fighting. i recognise that you are fighting for a new treaty. i also like to see commissioner wallström fighting – you make a nice couple when you are fighting! (laughter) let me tell you that we really need to fight now. what is going on in the council? i know what is going on: maybe one day, through informal contacts behind closed doors, we will get a new treaty, as mrs wallström said today, but that was the old way of doing things. now we need to do it together with the people. if we do not have the people with us, we will not have a new treaty. that is why i am so happy to see that we together – parliament, the european parties and the commission – can have a true european debate with ordinary people. excuse me for saying so, but it is a hell of a job, because it takes time and energy and often you get very little thanks for it. however, at the end you will make a difference in history, because the result will be a new treaty. therefore i just have two pieces of advice to give you. firstly, we, together with the chairman of the group, have focused on the following issues. we cannot do more to resolve international conflicts, especially in the middle east, without a new treaty. we cannot create more and better jobs and ensure better economic cooperation without a new treaty. we cannot combat terrorism, trafficking and cross-border crime without a new treaty. we need a new treaty in order to have low energy prices. we need a new treaty to have greater transparency. therefore, mr barroso, i recommend that you work harder, as you have said, on this declaration next year. however, promise me that one of the major messages in that declaration next year will be that this european union is not a competition amongst states, because that is what people increasingly fear. they fear uncertainty and financial competition on lowering taxes, a sort of social dumping, thereby undermining the welfare state. this european union is a transparent and fair competition in the free market between firms, services and projects, which can contribute to our wealth. that is a very important signal to send out. the european union is about people: putting people first, combining a new welfare state and a modernised version, for this region’s prosperity. my last point is that we need bulgaria and romania. we need to have a clear signal, president-in-office, when you meet the day after tomorrow. we will meet in brussels, with our leaders and prime ministers, and our message will be clear: we need bulgaria and romania from 1 january 2007. they deserve it and europe needs them. (applause)
in writing. one of the most important innovations in the constitution is the proposal to include common criminal provisions in all eu laws. it is very logical for every state to determine for each law what the cost of breaking the law should be. the council of ministers has also done so. they unanimously agreed on the cost of environmental crimes through an intergovernmental decision. the conflict is not about content, but about form. the supranational court is not content to be a court. the judges will also be legislators, in this case constitutional legislators - even against the unanimous decision of all the member states. they simply adopt a section of the constitution which is expressly rejected. it's as lawful as a resolution in the bear gang to empty joakim von and's money tank. what are the judges thinking? they're supposed to uphold the law, but they break the law. the court of justice could be set up by the parliaments of the member states deciding individually that this judgment has no legal effect in the country. we should also have a democratic procedure for the appointment of judges.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i am very pleased to note that the resolution recognizes that growth and sustainable development are not opposites but rather presuppositions of each other. sustainable growth is the only growth we can afford. it is also a great step forward that the resolution extends sustainability to areas other than the environment. the environmental and social dimensions should be integrated as equal themes in the understanding of sustainability. and in this connection, i would like to emphasize that sustainable development also implies gender equality. women today earn less than men across europe and are not represented in decision-making bodies to the same extent as men - neither in politics nor in the economy nor in public life. a sustainable development strategy must address this inequality and ensure that social problems do not affect men and women equally. the common objectives of both the lisbon strategy and the sustainable development strategy cannot be achieved without addressing the issue of inequality and better exploitation of the potential of both men and women.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mr bösch for a good report. this is a very high-quality piece of work, as always when mr bösch is involved. unfortunately, we know that the eu has a problem of legitimacy. the eu has an image problem when it comes to how the eu manages taxpayers' money. the problem is twofold. one is that there is fraud actually taking place with eu funds. the second is that there is not enough openness. of course, this poses some challenges for the institutions - the european parliament, olaf and the other eu institutions. firstly, of course, it is a question of solving the problems that exist simply by exercising better controls. secondly, there is the question of greater openness. i recently read an article in a danish newspaper that had the headline: "everyone talks about openness - no one does anything about it". i regret to say that i think that article was quite symptomatic of the european public's view of europe. everyone is talking about openness. we all want transparency, but we're not doing anything. fortunately, something is happening. fortunately, the commission is now taking the initiative to make it compulsory to publish the names of those who receive agricultural aid. it's a step in the right direction. we would like to see the same principle applied to structural funds. it must of course be so that all journalists, citizens, etc., can go to a website very easily and very simply and see who is receiving union money. but more needs to be done in the area of control. we in the socialist group recognize that the integrated financial control system is working well, but at the same time we find it problematic that the system has not yet been fully implemented - more than seven years after it should have been implemented. the same applies to the structural funds, where there is also no adequate control. it is very easy to forget these things when we talk about the long lines of european cooperation. do we need a constitutional treaty? turkey is going? and so on and so forth. but the truth is that these issues are incredibly important to gain legitimacy among the people of europe. for purely idealistic reasons too, we should of course work to ensure that every euro of european taxpayers' money is managed properly and that there is transparency about it.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, i would like to thank the president of the commission and wolfgang schüssel for helping to maintain the f-gas ban in denmark and austria, and i would like to thank the many colleagues who voted on tuesday for the groundwater rules to be drafted as a minimum directive as well. total harmonisation should be made much more frequently into minimum harmonisation, encouraging countries to take the lead in the fight for safety, health and the environment. it is also a small step forward that co-decision now has to be openly taken in the council. last year, the eu adopted 57 laws in this way out of a total of 3124. so we're still only opening up the small part of the iceberg that's above the water. the main rule will remain that the eu adopts its laws in 300 secret council working groups assisted by 3000 other secret working groups under the commission. the national parliaments will be able to decide on the principle of subsidiarity. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. those were my roses. here comes the rice. i think that wolfgang schüssel should be ashamed of calling for the ratification of the constitution which the french and the dutch have rejected. why does he not dare to ask his own austrian compatriots what they think of the constitution? why should finland now approve a text which is supported by 22% of finns, while 48% are against? ministers of the european union! you are on a collision course with the peoples of europe! it is better to choose new people or to start anew with a directly elected convention to draw up new texts which can be sent to all countries for a vote on the same day. then it's up to the people. it is no longer closed meetings, as in north korea, cuba and coreper.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, the eu has a reputation problem. there is far too little transparency and it is too difficult for concerned citizens to participate in the decision-making process, as the previous speaker has just described very well. this has been rectified by the aarhus convention on the conditions for the participation of ngos in environmental legislation. this excellent convention has been ratified by all the member states but has apparently not been properly implemented. and now it is up to the eu to see that this legislation is implemented. there have been many problems in getting it done even with any consistency, but after the second reading there have been so many improvements that we in the green group will support the proposal, even though it is far from as good as it could have been if the eu lived up to its own fine words about being there for the citizens. but it is regrettable that the commission's clear text on access for ngos to the community courts has been watered down by the council and parliament. now it's not at all clear whether this access is actually there. we hope, however, that the practice will be on the ngo side and thus on the eu side.
for the pse group. i am not sure that this is the case. i should also like to begin by thanking mr blokland. it's been a long process, you've worked hard. they have agreed with the socialist group a long way along the way. that is why we can support the compromise, even though we are not entirely satisfied with it, as the previous speaker said. because there are certain areas where this piece of legislation could have been improved. we do not agree that the handheld so-called power tools should be exempted. they make up a large proportion of the cadmium batteries in use. there are alternatives, and it is possible that they can be recycled. it is possible that some of them can also be caught in the system and that the environmental damage is not so great - if the system is to work. but we just have to say that there are alternatives. and if there are alternatives, why not use them? so why don't we ban the dangerous batteries? there is, of course, progress, great progress, which means that we are, after all, also supporting this legislation. the capacity labelling is a good thing, not least for consumers. we all know of course the advertisements for batteries - i shall not mention any manufacturers' names - but there is something about a rabbit, and the manufacturer seems to want to give the impression that these batteries last much longer than those of competitors. it is also possible that they do, but now we get the picture. because now it's going to say on the package how much energy is in such a battery. that's a good thing, of course. it is also positive that we require manufacturers to ensure that if there is a battery inside a device, it should be easy to remove. it is also positive that we now have a high overall recycling rate in europe. again, we could have wished it to be even higher, but we are happy to have common rules in this area. in conclusion, i would like to say that this is an important area in which we are now getting community legislation. we had higher ambitions than what has been achieved, but we are still supporting the legislation overall because of the improvements that have been made.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i am not sure that this is the case. "they must be stopped!" that was the great young poet of my youth, gustaf munch-petersen, when he volunteered for spain and stood alone at the front while his comrades retreated to the main force. gustaf left his wife, children and family back in denmark. his action was neither justified nor responsible and could not keep the plague of fascism from europe. his lone protest lacked rationale, but imagine if all citizens had acted with the same courage. the untimely death became his last poem. most of them were passive when democracy was threatened and in many places suppressed, until others courageously put an end to nazism and fascism. for many in this room, liberation was transformed into a new occupation of the iron curtain and the gulag. let us remember today the many who died with and without courage. let us salute those who went into resistance as spanish volunteers and took part in the defence of democracy, showing both courage and foolhardy in underground armies against the policy of government condescension towards the enemies of democracy. many active resistance fighters have found their way into the political parties and also into the movements which i have represented in this chamber for 27 years. they're almost all dead. my brave neighbor, the blacksmith hans, on his deathbed, told me that the british bombs had fallen on the french school instead of the gestapo headquarters. hans, as a british agent, had supplied the illegal drawings. it wasn't his fault, but the dead students haunted him to the end. i would also like to recall a young lecturer who travelled around the country to create the first danish resistance movement while the government was collaborating with the german occupying power. frode jakobsen later became the leader of the successful underground government, the danish freedom council. after the war he became a minister and took part in the great congress of the european movement in the hague in 1948, which launched the council of europe and european integration. he was for many years chairman of the european movement and a social democratic member of parliament. nevertheless, he voted against all the votes on the ec and eu treaties. and he launched the democratic critique of the european union as early as 1972. we named a prize after him. it is awarded annually to individuals who have shown exceptional political courage. people who have done something for someone other than themselves at a time when it wasn't opportune, profitable or career-promoting. we've never had any trouble finding candidates. there are still people who show extraordinary political courage. and some of them have been inspired by the half million volunteers from around the world who went to spain to say "no pasarán". thank you to all of you who showed personal courage and died for our freedom. "the people united will never be defeated". (applause from the centre)
for the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. research and development are essential to increase europe's growth potential and to create new jobs. the eu cannot become competitive by reducing wages, but must focus on the development of new technology and the development of human capital. despite the lisbon strategy's aim of making europe the most dynamic knowledge-based region in the world, europe still lags behind the us and japan in terms of research and innovation. i think that this report very precisely points out the areas where europe is failing to live up to its own objectives. europe does not create enough knowledge, does not share its knowledge effectively and does not finance knowledge adequately. research is important, but we must also bear in mind that most companies in europe are not high-tech gazelles, but small traditional companies. they must also be innovative and better able to exploit new market opportunities for new products and create new business processes that better exploit the potential of employees. the report succeeds in giving a broad perspective to the formation of knowledge. i particularly welcome the integrated approach to employment and training policy, since only by combining the conditions for innovation in enterprises with education, social and labour market policies can we make room for the creative potential of our employees. a highly qualified workforce is better able to adapt to the rapidly changing needs of enterprises, and training also contributes to the dissemination of knowledge. europe needs more and better investment in education. i would also like to stress that i consider gender equality to be a very central dimension of the eu's lisbon strategy. we cannot afford to ignore the gender perspective if we are to achieve our goal of european competitiveness. it is estimated that the eu needs to attract and train between 600 000 and 700 000 new researchers to meet our research needs, and this figure does not take into account the withdrawal of many older people from the labour market. we simply cannot afford to ignore the research potential of the female half of the population. finally, i would like to say that i believe that we should incorporate environmental sustainability and social inclusion into our innovation strategy. sustainability should be the fundamental principle, so that we ensure that the eu is ahead, thinking both long-term and globally. europe has a clear lead in this area, which in itself can help to ensure that we achieve the objectives we have set in the lisbon strategy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. dear prime minister and fellow conventionist matti vanhanen! i think it was courageous of matti vanhanen to offer to start the ratification process of a treaty which should have been buried after the referendums in france and the netherlands. why, then, is courage failing in finland? why does he not dare to put the constitution to a referendum? the same day we visited the prime minister in helsinki, he got his president to sign the constitutional bill she opposes. this came just hours after finnish television had broadcast an opinion poll showing that only 22% of finns supported the constitution, while 48% opposed it. i think matti vanhanen should find himself behind the mantle of prime minister. in the convention, the prime minister worked for openness, proximity and democracy and supported the demand that the constitution should be submitted to a referendum in all european countries. make the demand for a referendum in all countries a condition of finnish acceptance. and then put the preached openness into practice. put all the documents from the whole legislative process on the website. open all meetings to the public unless a majority of the landed parties actively withdraw. the prime minister himself signed the proposal in the convention along with all the other elected representatives. put it to the next meeting of the council of ministers. 20 of the 25 governments have also signed. the proposal can be adopted by a simple majority of the 25 countries. promises are meant to be kept. i urge our finnish president to have the courage to stand by his signature. i'm sure the prime minister will only have enemies in the eu's secret coreper government. the people of europe will love him if he becomes the one to open the doors to the far-off, closed eu. i hope there's something to be thankful for in december.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have a request to you, mr vanhanen, as you continue your work on the extension of the european union's jurisdiction. i fully support your proposal to change judicial cooperation so that we now have majority decisions. it is a matter of the european parliament's responsibility to ensure that the european union is able to take action against terrorism and the terrible trafficking of women. but as i said, i have a request for you, mr vanhanen, from one liberal to another. be careful not to make it a slippery slope. there are several signals that concern me. for example, the cases of data retention, the release of passenger lists, cia transfers and now the latest case of the company swift, which has allowed us authorities to monitor european bank transfers. we must be careful not to infringe our fundamental freedoms and not to compromise our rights too much for the sake of fighting terrorism. i am saying that we must not compromise too much on our freedom for the sake of our own security. it's a delicate balance. so think about that when you're pulling your work clothes. enjoy your work! mr barroso, from one small country to another: have a good match tonight and may the best team win!
mr president, the president-in-office is famous in finland for cooperation and consensus. i sincerely hope, president-in-office, that when you meet the social partners at the social summit in october, you will make real progress, because no progress can be made on the wealth and values of the european union member states without broad, consensus-based cooperation. president-in-office, when we talk about flexicurity, which i am happy that you and president barroso have embraced as an important basis for cooperation, it is extremely important that it is not just flexibility – which mr de villepin in france would like to see – but both flexibility and security in a combined and globalised modern version. that can only be done in cooperation with the social partners, which i hope you will take the lead on. you have all the prerequisites to do it and i am sure you will. as i have emphasised this morning, my second appeal to you is that you combat crime, terrorism and human trafficking. since you relaunched the finnish presidency in tampere, this must now be the time to turn that into reality. i hope that, using the passerelle clause, we shall see the finnish presidency ending up with a very clear result for all our citizens.
mr president, the report we are dealing with today is built on assumptions and allegations the truth of which the temporary committee has no authority and no tools to verify. irrespective of the fact that mr javier solana clearly stated to the committee that there was no evidence of the colourful stories we were being told, the report accuses eu governments both of violating human rights and of lying. what we are really dealing with are two different concepts of the war against terror: the european parliament model, which believes in fighting terrorism with resolutions and dialogue and, on the other side, the model of the responsible governments, which want to monitor suspected persons, control transfers of illegal funds and, where necessary, arrest terrorists before they can act. there is one clear message to the terrorists in this report: have no fear of the european parliament. we are your safe haven and we will never catch you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. with all the nuclear power stations we have in europe, we are all in greater danger than we think - even in denmark, which has otherwise said no to nuclear power. take the swedish nuclear power plant forsmark. there, the former head of security, lars-olov höglund, said that it was pure luck that the plant did not melt down here at the beginning of august. he calls it the most dangerous situation since chernobyl. and then a week went by without the swedish public or operators of similar plants in other countries knowing about the incident. in general, knowledge of the safety of nuclear power plants and of the requirements imposed by the authorities on the plants is not available to the public. and it is of course alarming in general that this is the case in sweden's otherwise open society. it's a closed loop when it comes to nuclear power. the important lesson of this episode is that nuclear power is not safe and never will be. it creates enormous problems and is even a threat to democracy. we must stop this development as soon as possible.
i have to say, madam president, fortunately, this proposal will not be implemented. there is a blocking minority in the council, and we in denmark think that is a good thing - most of us, at any rate. the high registration tax has meant that in denmark, as in a number of other countries, we still have fewer cars. it's the purchase of the car that determines how many people will drive. people have their cars, they drive them. and so a high registration fee is a very good thing if you want to limit the number of cars. come to denmark, come to holland - you can see that it works. it is clear that such a registration tax and, moreover, an annual tax should be introduced after consumption. not proportionally as proposed here, but in such a way that you get a supply that resembles the one we know from refrigerators. i mean, where you have some real tax leaps that you can feel. the present proposal will, from almost every point of view, be detrimental to the environment. we will have many more cars, and with proportionality there will be more cars that are more polluting and that have a higher energy consumption. in fact, there is a lot to suggest that volkswagen and other representatives of the car industry have succeeded in getting to grips with this issue, and when i hear the car industry really lobbying actively in denmark to get the registration tax removed, it is because they expect to sell more cars. they don't expect to sell cleaner or less energy-consuming cars. on the contrary, they produce on a massive scale highly polluting and highly fuel-intensive cars. so i say thank you, because this proposal is not going through. we hope to see a better proposal.
rapporteur. – madam president, i apologise for being late. i flew out from heathrow this morning. i have lost my luggage, so i have no clothes or make-up and look pale and ugly, but i hope that is alright! in london you have to take everything out of your bag. fru formand! tak for indlæggene og også mange tak fra kommissærens side. vi har tidligere haft en diskussion om denne betænkning og er meget enige i kommissionens forslag. jeg kan kun sige, at mit land, danmark, ikke tilslutter sig kommissionens forslag, men det gør jeg, selv om jeg har ændret på forslaget. jeg vil gerne sige tak til økonomiudvalget for den store opbakning. også tak for de gode ændringsforslag og tak til det store flertal, der har bakket mig op. jeg vil gerne gå ind på nogle punkter, som jeg synes er vigtige at fremhæve, inden vi stemmer i morgen. for det første vil jeg gerne understrege, hvorfor dette forslag er godt. det er det, fordi det tager hensyn til miljøet. forslaget handler som bekendt om at fjerne registreringsafgifter på personbiler for i stedet at introducere et nyt system. og det nye system er en årlig afgift baseret på bilens udslip af forurenende stoffer. i udvalget er vi gået et skridt videre end kommissionens oprindelige forslag, da kommissionen alene ønskede en årlig afgift baseret på co2-udslippet. men co2 er jo ikke den eneste forureningskilde. i min betænkning anbefaler vi derfor, at afgiften baseres på alle forurenende stoffer og partikler. det er vigtigt at sende et signal til bilindustrien om, at afgiften på bilen er afhængig af bilens forureningsgrad. forslaget vil derfor forhåbentlig skabe et incitament for bilindustrien til at producere mere benzinøkonomiske og mindre forurenende biler. det andet vigtige hensyn - som også kommissæren lægger meget vægt på - er fri bevægelighed. i dag findes der 25 forskellige beskatningssystemer med 25 forskellige måder at beregne bilafgifter på. mange systemer bygger på forældede regler, og registreringsafgifter kan være en hindring for den fri bevægelighed. der er en risiko for dobbeltbeskatning, og en bilejer skal ofte betale forholdsvis meget mere for sin brugte bil, når han transporterer sin bil fra et medlemsland til et andet. det er simpelthen uacceptabelt. det er også vigtigt at understrege fra udvalgets side, at vi ønsker, at forslaget skal være budgetneutralt. det er meget vigtigt, at der ikke må være udgifter forbundet med denne ændring til ugunst for medlemslandene - hverken i en overgangsperiode eller efterfølgende. og lad mig slå fast, at eu ikke er med til at indføre skattepolitik med dette forslag. det er helt op til medlemslandene selv at bestemme, hvor høj afgiften skal være, og hvordan den skal sammensættes. derfor vil min opfordring til rådet da også være at stemme for dette forslag, selv om jeg ved, at det har trange kår, bl.a. i mit eget land og i det forenede kongerige. man kunne jo overveje at bruge muligheden i nice-traktaten med forstærket samarbejde og lade nogle medlemslande gå videre end andre. endelig er der et fjerde vigtigt hensyn at tage, nemlig at der bliver en lang overgangstid. det er vigtigt, at hele markedet, industrien, bilejerne og systemerne generelt kan indrette sig, og derfor finder jeg, at en tiårig periode er nødvendig, for at landene kan ændre deres systemer uden andet end de nødvendige omkostninger. samtidig vil det sikre, at vi kan få bilparken fornyet. det er altså de fire relevante punkter: lang overgangstid, budgetneutralitet, fri bevægelighed og hensyn til miljøet. endelig vil jeg lige kommentere ændringsforslagene fra hr. langen på vegne af ppe-gruppen. dem støtter jeg, da jeg er enig i, at der skal være en proportionalitet mellem afgiften på bilen og bilens udslip af forurenende stoffer. og så er jeg naturligvis enig i, at vi skal værne om veteranbiler, og derfor har jeg intet imod, at veteranbiler bliver undtaget for forslaget. jeg ejer ikke selv en veteranbil, men jeg har fuld forståelse for veteranbilejere. ændringsforslagene fra de grønne kan jeg ikke anbefale, idet de ikke er i tråd med den generelle linje i betænkningen. bl.a. fordi en tidligere ikrafttræden ikke er realistisk. det var mine ord. hr. formand, og ikke fru formand! jeg kan se, at vi har skifte i formandsstolen. endnu en gang undskyld, at jeg kommer så sent. jeg håber, at man vil bære over med mig, og jeg ser frem til en god afstemning i morgen.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. at the copenhagen summit in december 2002, all heads of government backed much stricter rules against pollution from ships. that meeting took place only one month after the prestige accident in november 2002. here, almost four years later, it seems that the level of ambition has dropped considerably - the money is too small and there is no clarity on how much we should have fit into this system. nevertheless, we are glad that this compromise has been reached and we support it. we certainly also congratulate mr grandes on his report and as a dane i can say that it is good that we have extended the scheme to cover the north sea region. we are glad that pollution in general is now included and not just the specific pollution. we expect that this proposal and the whole concept will be such that improvements can also be made and that the level of ambition can therefore be gradually raised. that there is more to be gained by incorporating proposals - such as the one that has just been put forward - so that it becomes possible to prosecute the many, many criminals who are completely indifferent to what is happening to our marine environment and therefore simply use it as a garbage can when they do not want to pay what it costs to dispose of their pollutants properly. i do not think that the proposal is good enough to prevent all this, but i hope that it is good enough to be improved and that it can thus serve as the necessary framework. thank you for the proposal - we support it, of course.
i have to say, madam president, the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is not going to be able to do that. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs lissy gröner, for her excellent report on the daphne iii programme. violence against women is a major and growing problem in the eu countries, and many women and their children have their lives destroyed as a result of violence and not least threats of violence. every year hundreds of women die as a result of domestic violence in europe, and even more attempted murders are reported. it is therefore of the utmost importance that violence against women and children be given a separate place on the eu agenda. violence against women and children is a specific problem which requires specific actions and solutions. the parliament's proposal focuses on the abuses that take place daily in homes and on changes that will force national parliaments to take a stand on these serious problems. a programme that focuses clearly on violence is needed, which can help to raise awareness of the problem and at the same time help to stimulate public debate on violence. the taboo and silence surrounding violence must be fought, and nation states should make a massive effort to inform how to get help, both as a victim and as a perpetrator. the taboo is also a major obstacle to prevention and it is necessary to open the eyes of the citizens of the eu to the many victims who live in fear of abuse on a daily basis. violence is not a private matter, no matter in what sphere it occurs and no matter who perpetrates it - whether it occurs in the family, in public spaces or in the context of state violence. violence against women takes many forms: physical, psychological and sexual violence, forced prostitution, trafficking in women. the overall objective of the union's activities against violence is to prevent and combat all forms of violence in order to eliminate fully such crime and serious violations of human rights. the fight against violence should be recognised as part of the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms.
rapporteur. – mr president, excuse me but i think we have voted on it already, so we can move on to the next amendment.
rapporteur. – mr president, i agree that it has been chaotic, both thanks to us and perhaps some other people here in the chamber. (mixed reactions)however, when i look at the end result, i would propose that we vote for it, because the key issues for me have been voted through. i am sure that when we go through it with the administration here we can check some of it and make it better. (mixed reactions)the main items for me are important. i think we should vote for it in order to give the signal to the commission so that we can make progress in changing this tax system.
in writing. i voted for the report because it sends an important signal about the reorientation of taxes towards the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted.
in writing. the report has many strong points with respect to mental health issues concerning women and children. that is why we give our support to the report. however we do want to stress that, in principle, measures and decisions with respect to healthcare are within the competence of the individual member states.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am the longest-serving member of this parliament and the one who has travelled to strasbourg the most. i was on the committee on budgets and the conference of presidents when the majority decided that the secretariat should be in luxembourg and that meetings should be held alternately in strasbourg and brussels. when we have to choose between strasbourg and brussels, i have voted for strasbourg, so it is not an anti-french voice that is speaking today. we've now collected a million signatures to have one single meeting place. it's a very popular expression. we will no longer be wasting taxpayers' money and the time of members of parliament and staff. we should therefore do everything we can to meet the criticisms of the citizens. when we are fixing the agenda for 2008, we could decide to meet every tuesday in the city where the commission meets. we could have a statement of the decisions taken today and take all the votes that require an absolute majority. then the need for relocation was drastically reduced, and the ball will be on the prime ministers' table, forcing them to establish a single workplace. we can do it ourselves without breaking the treaty. we can also send a signal by not buying new buildings now. i have tabled amendment no 9 to prevent or postpone the purchase. no one had the imagination to imagine that the city of strasbourg would cheat the european parliament and the european taxpayers. that idea has not been raised at any meeting that i can recall, and i do not want to blame successive secretaries-general for sleeping in class. there must be an expectation of honesty and mutual loyalty between public authorities. and i understand that strasbourg has not acted against the law. well, then the law needs to be changed to require public authorities to provide information when they do business with each other. but here in parliament we are not obliged to buy the buildings from the city of strasbourg. we have enough buildings, and now we should come together on the demand for a single workplace.
member of the commission. mr president, this is a package of issues that shows that education and training is getting a momentum. i am sure that eqf is one of the points for the coming years. when i was asked about the top issues in my portfolio for the next five years, i said that eqf is one of them and so i think we are delivering it now; not only speaking about it. first of all, i would like to express gratitude to the rapporteur and to the employment committee, for the excellent report prepared in consultation with other committees, which reflects the commission’s consultation paper from last year. it gives us the opportunity to reflect the formal proposal adopted this month, because i am sure that lifelong learning and mobility are crucial to our competitiveness and social cohesion in the european union. the commission has always taken positive steps to make progress in these fields. however, in practice people in europe still too often face obstacles when they try to move from one country to another to learn or work, and when they want to become citizens more than tourists in the union. they also face difficulties when they want to build on previous education and training and move, for example, from vocational education and training into higher education. the eqf will help to solve that problem. it will improve transparency and make different national qualifications systems or qualifications frameworks more understandable across europe. by helping different systems to talk to each other, it will promote access to education and training and increase mobility for learning or work. it could also be instrumental outside europe, because when i was in moscow or, in june, in canada, both countries – russia and canada – expressed interest in knowing more about this instrument because they would like it to inspire their policies. we already have legal instruments, such as the directives on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. the europass initiative has been mentioned today, which also pursues similar goals. however, these instruments alone are not sufficient, which is why the eqf is an important further step to improve the situation. our proposal already integrates many of the comments and recommendations contained in mr mann’s report; i am sure we can agree on that. i therefore consider that parliament and the commission are very much following the same line on this issue. the document on which you have commented was a consultation paper issued in july last year. since then, we have moved further on the road towards a more practical and user-friendly instrument. mr mann is right to say that we should do more on vocational education and training. i would like to remind you that it came into the treaties in the treaty of rome, in 1957; and higher education not until the maastricht treaty; in 1999 we started the bologna process, and only later on the copenhagen process. now we have two parallel processes, which feed well into the european qualifications framework, but we need it to get there in order to start the real implementation of important clauses in our treaties. we are doing that now: in the bologna process, 45 countries; in copenhagen, 32. two weeks ago i was in switzerland and they want to join the copenhagen process. so those are good messages for our work. eqf will provide the full benefit only if correctly implemented by member states. they will need to link their qualification systems to the eqf. i am convinced that our proposal provides the common language and the means to develop the necessary mutual trust, which is the basis for real implementation of such an instrument. that strategy is also helpful to employers and individuals in comparing qualifications across the union and across diverse education and training systems. i am sure that this key initiative is helping people in europe to face the challenges and reap the benefits of a knowledge-based society. we are looking forward not only to further discussions but also to further cooperation following the recent adoption of the proposal. (applause)
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. as has been said many times tonight, education policy is decided nationally. and this is how it should continue to be, but as the debate today also shows, there are many joint initiatives under way to develop education in europe through exchange and cooperation. good initiatives and it is important that they are communicated widely to the population. in the alde group we warmly support the development of a european qualifications framework. the one with a popular name is called eqf. this framework should promote the recognition and use of skills and competences already acquired, thereby facilitating access to lifelong learning for all citizens. with 32 countries participating in the cooperation, it allows for a broadly focused development of training and employment opportunities in europe. the focus on skills acquired is an important breakthrough. it is the result, the actual ability and not just how it is achieved, that is the focus. this will ensure that the very different structures of vocational training in europe in particular are taken into account, while at the same time we set common objectives. i would like to stress in this connection the demand made by mr mann that we should pay more attention to vocational training, including continuing training. it is not just university education that we should be focusing on. it is also important to ensure that the system is not too complicated. it may be simpler and clearer than what was put in the working paper. in addition, as the commissioner has already mentioned, it is important for the success of the eqf that all countries voluntarily participate and introduce their own national frameworks for the assessment of qualifications or, where appropriate, regional systems. it is important to build on the work already done in the field of quality assessment of training and to avoid unnecessary red tape. it's not gonna be easy, but we're setting ambitious goals for tonight.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there were no scholarly books in my home. my family were farmers and craftsmen. great teachers in the public elementary school, free book loans from a well-stocked public library opened the world of books to me. book loans, education, care, nursing, water, insurance, hospital treatment, welfare are called "utility services" here, as opposed to the more specific economic services such as going to the hairdresser or buying a house. dentistry, eyeglasses, personal care, all of that comes in between. the court of justice has, by numerous judgments, created a common market for many services. but the essence of popular government is that you don't just vote with your wallet in a market, but that you also vote as a voter for the design of society. do we want private hospitals and expensive medical bills, do we want to pay for book loans, do we want public transport to be cheap, do we want grandmothers to be washed every day in the nursing home, do we want children to be looked after in discount kindergartens or to be developed by trained educators? the june movement supports the single market in goods and services, we are against national discrimination, but we will also allow the voters in each country to define the boundaries between the market and society and to determine the level of quality and service and user rights. we will also maintain the danish contract model, where wages and working conditions are agreed in collective agreements and respected, and the social model, where we pay high taxes to give social citizenship rights to all. the people's government must be able to control the market, so that there are general services for those who are not born with a silver spoon in their mouth. we will continue to sing with grundtvig, "and then we have made it far in wealth, when few have too much and few too little".
in writing. we agree to common minimum standards for air pollution. the directive has, however, as its legal basis articles 175 and 176, which provide that member states may maintain or introduce more extensive protection. however, article 176 also states that this protection must be notified to the commission and must not be contrary to the treaties. since limit values for air pollution can conflict with the internal market, we therefore do not believe that a directive with a legal basis of articles 175 and 176 is in itself a sufficient guarantee of the member states' ability to maintain or introduce higher levels of protection. we are voting in favour of this because we want common minimum rules and we will therefore put forward proposals during parliament's second reading which will give the directive the power to clarify and ensure this.
thank you, mr president! it's called the european union. mr. erdogan, i wonder if you have a map. the question of turkey's accession to the european union can be answered in that way. turkey is not a european country and therefore turkey should not be a member of the european union. the eu's heads of state have promised turkey that it can become a member of the eu under certain conditions, but the heads of state do not have the support of their populations. two thirds of the european citizens do not want turkey to be a member, and this is what the heads of state are ultimately forced to accept if they do not want to lose the confidence of their electorate. mr eurling's report is excellent proof that the citizens of the european union base their opinions on facts and not on feelings. i would recommend voting in favour of the report, even though some of its wording may be interpreted as meaning that we regard turkey's accession as a final, albeit distant, objective. the turkish government has repeatedly demonstrated that it does not recognise european values but, on the contrary, demands that we respect unacceptable turkish and islamic values. we saw this in the case of the famous danish cartoons of muhammad in jyllands-posten, and also in the turkish attacks on pope benedict's speech in regensburg. turkey is illegally occupying northern cyprus and believes it can force the eu to accept this. turkey will stifle european freedom, our freedom of expression, and membership would mean the formation of parallel societies directed against european culture. it's time to tell the truth.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are many who have fought for years for the basic principles of the rule of law. in particular, legal certainty, which is protection against the police and other state authorities, especially for the underprivileged in society. the fight has been largely in vain. never has the rule of law been more seriously threatened than it is today. the 'area of freedom, security and justice' of the eu treaty is at best a myth, or perhaps a legal deception, covering up a systematic destruction of the rule of law, and none of the union's institutions has shown the ability to bring about the much-needed change of course. there's only room for two messages. the first is that the eu and its member states, without having committed crimes of the scale of the united states - guantanamo and other torture centres around the world - commit acts of violence every day against both lawless refugees and suspected terrorists. the police state of fort europa is dangerously close. secondly, the institutions of the union do not want to find an explanation for the two basic problems, the root of all evil. the main cause in both cases is simply the economic and social inequality of the world. inequality is growing every day as a direct result of the eu's policy of oppression of the world's poorest countries. here we find the root of evil. only with this recognition will the necessary legal policy have any meaning.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, at our last partsession we had a report on eu trade with china. we were very strong in our criticism of china's human rights violations. today it is the trade with india. the report is excellent. i could agree with most of what has been said and the greens/efa group will of course vote in favour. but i would like to concentrate on one important question. why are human rights issues not important here? they are mentioned, but in very general terms. and the worst problem, perhaps one of the world's most pervasive human rights problems, is almost gone. i am thinking of course of the casteless, the dalits. they are mentioned, but along with the adivasis, as if they were just a minority problem. the dalits are a despised underclass in several countries, but especially is it india's problem. they are not just poor and socially excluded. it's worse. they are treated as non-humans, untouchable and detested by the other groups of the population. they live at the bottom of society. they may have rights, but only on paper. in reality, they are lawless and do the dirtiest and most dangerous work. and that's what's interesting about this. they are the ones who in industry and agriculture work with chemicals so toxic that they are banned in most parts of the world. without instructions and protection, they spray the fields with deadly nerve agents. they stand barefoot in acid baths, dyeing our textiles in the factories. no one else would accept it, but the dalits are forced to. and the eu trades in indian products without asking any questions about their origin. it is a sad story for india, but it is almost more embarrassing for europe, which is aware of what is happening - we have often sold them the shit ourselves. thousands of people are injured, many die, and they are dalits. the dalits have no voice, no union, we have to be their voice if the abuses are to stop. we must put the problem on the eu agenda and it is a shame that this report does not include it clearly.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. madam president, anna politkovskaya's danish friend cannot get a visa to russia and i have asked javier solana to raise this issue at an appropriate time. the finnish presidency is now in session. i love finland! i'm sitting in alva alto's chair, putting flowers in his vase, making phone calls with a nokia. i have respected finnish politicians from my youth and worked with your foreign minister in the eea and your prime minister in the convention. i am now wondering what has happened to finland. how on earth can finnish politicians get themselves to ratify a constitution which has been voted down in france and the netherlands and therefore no longer exists? is it true that there are members of the centre party's parliamentary group who will vote against their own convictions? the vast majority of finnish voters are against the constitution, and yet you force it through without a referendum. shame on you! we should start anew with a new directly elected convention, a referendum in all countries and a text which the electorate can vote for with pleasure, instead of using the vanhanen whip and a new policy of finlandization, where finland is making itself germany's 17th state! finland currently has 7.8% of the votes needed to achieve a blocking minority in the council of ministers, and therefore the other countries have to listen to finland. that is why we have a valuable culture of consensus in the council of ministers. the constitution will introduce a double majority, so we'll have to vote by population. it will reduce the finnish share of a blocking minority from 7.8% to 3.3% and then we will no longer have to listen to finland and other small countries in the eu. the german share will rise from 32% to 51%. germany and turkey will thus be able to determine the pace of an enlarged eu. a double majority would destroy the culture of consensus in the eu. the removal of the national commissioners will make it difficult to get the eu to work in everyday life. nokia will be fine, but the many small and mediumsized enterprises and municipalities will miss the contact through the finnish cabinet when there is no longer a finnish commissioner at the table. and the rotation system will only last until france, so that malta can rotate its work! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and it is hoping that the council will take them up.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, the council's decision on the import duties on shoes from china and vietnam is yet another example of eu protectionism. the resolution is an attack on the multilateral agreement system, in this case the multifibre arrangement, and it punishes severely those member states which have managed to live up to the agreement. the duty is targeted, inter alia, at denmark, which has moved shoe production to china and retained only design and marketing. but worse still, the eu is now undermining the wto and the multilateral agreement system. and it's wonderful that the commissioner doesn't even listen to you when you talk. even though he's finnish, he has no chance of understanding my danish when he's standing over there. i would point out to the president that this is totally unacceptable! (the president cut off the speaker) peter mandelson is now going to bet on bilateral trade agreements. the reason is that as long as the wto track is blocked, we must find new ways. but i would point out that it is actually the eu, together with the united states, that is mainly responsible for the stalemate in the wto negotiations. there are problems with human rights, interest rates and environmental standards, but they must not be solved by protectionism. they must be resolved through binding multilateral cooperation. by strengthening the bilateral line, the poor countries will be kept in their dependence on the eu. it's a poorly disguised continuation of the exploitation of the colonial era. peter mandelson calls the bilateral agreements "stepping stones" towards better global trade. but they are not - on the contrary! the wto and the multilateral trading system are being turned away, and with them the ideals of poverty reduction and fair free trade, which the commission has always promoted as its global vision. with the bilateral strategy, that vision becomes a pipe dream.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you do this. in contrast to the previous speaker, i would say that if anyone thinks that european jobs can be saved by imposing duties on leather shoes from china and vietnam, they have to think again. that's not how it works! production is just moving to other low-wage countries. the latest figures from eurostat show that since the adoption of the customs duties in the spring, the production of shoes has shifted from china and vietnam to countries such as india and indonesia. the inefficient producers in the eu countries gain nothing. the commission claims that dumping has taken place and the commission states that it has provided all the specific findings of the anti-dumping investigation. i must say that i can only find a few general documents. i think it is a major democratic problem if decisions are taken on a loose or incomplete basis. it reinforces the impression that this is a political trade in tobacco and i would therefore urge the commission to present all its studies openly and to present detailed analyses of the impact that tobacco has and will have on european consumers and businesses.
in writing. the galileo programme is an eu programme for satellite-based radio navigation. today all satellite-based radio navigation is based on the well-known gps system together with a russian system. galileo is a civilian system, whereas the american gps is military. technically, it will also be a better system based on 30 satellites, which will provide better coverage. for the commercial sector, this would mean an accuracy of as little as 3 mm, whereas gps is about 2-3 cm. today, satellite navigation is an indispensable technology in everyday life. it is therefore extremely risky that this is dependent on the discretion of the us military. galileo is thus essential to a secure and independent navigation system. the more coarse part will be free for all to use. it's a very expensive joke. it costs about 30 billion dkk. but this is a project that denmark could not have undertaken alone. if we are to be independent of the us military in the end, this is a project that the june movement can support. the report supports the extension of the project beyond the construction period. the june motion therefore votes in favour of the proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is not going to be able to do that. i would like to thank the rapporteur for this very important and very relevant report. immigration to europe has changed. today, more women than men are coming because there is a high demand for labour in the operational service and care sector. however, this labour market is also characterised by a large grey economy where the general rules on pay, working time and working environment do not apply. the women are therefore in a very vulnerable situation without social and economic protection and many of them are in jobs that will not allow them to be legalised. the vulnerability of illegal immigrant women puts them at greater risk of being subjected to abuse both physically and psychologically, and precisely because of their illegal status they are easy victims of abuse and sexual exploitation in the workplace. they are also particularly at risk of being denied their fundamental rights and are victims of violence and discrimination in their daily lives. many are afraid to report abuse for fear of deportation. it is imperative that greater attention be paid to the conditions of immigrant women. we should ensure that member states take into account in their legislation the problems faced by female immigrants. women who are victims of trafficking in human beings or who are exposed to violence should be able to obtain a temporary residence permit and have the right to legal assistance and access to health and social assistance, whether they are legally resident or not.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, thank you to mr florenz for the question. last year i was rapporteur for the parliament's report on the financing of natura 2000. in this report we expressed our concern at the willingness of the member states and the commission to take the task seriously. nature's advocates are heard when there are speeches to be made. just think of how the heads of government in gothenburg in 2001 solemnly assured that natura 2000 would be implemented. but all this was forgotten when the budget was to be adopted. the separate budget line for natura 2000 was then rejected out of hand. it will now be interesting to see whether the promises are remembered when the agricultural lobbyists try again to ensure that all the aid - including the rural fund - goes to the large farms and to industry. the commission must be more stringent in this area! the weakness and lack of control that has existed so far is having devastating consequences. first of all, for nature, but also for the reputation of the european union, as several colleagues have pointed out. the protection of the environment and nature is a key asset of the european union for too many people. we politicians who have had to defend and explain the need for european cooperation have constantly referred to what the european union can do in this area. but many are now experiencing a lack of interest on the part of the eu in the values that cannot be converted into quick money. we must act quickly if our good name is to be restored. the commission should make the disbursement of rural development funds conditional on member states presenting plans and allocating sufficient resources to natura 2000. and remember to remind farmers that rural resources are not their own private money. natura 2000 must have its share, even without compensation for agriculture. agriculture should share its responsibility for the health and diversity of nature. it will be to the benefit of all in the rural areas. there are excellent opportunities for profitability in the development of natura 2000. for example, we know that about a quarter of a million people are involved in nature conservation, and the potential in tourism is even greater.
i have to say, madam president, the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is not going to be able to do that. breast cancer is the leading cause of death in women between the ages of 35 and 50, and the survival rate varies greatly from country to country. we must encourage the member states to set up information and counselling centres on hereditary breast cancer and we must encourage the commission to submit a progress report every two years on this matter. it is important that breast cancer research be given priority. that is why the eu's research programme, the seventh framework programme, should also allocate funds to research into breast cancer, both in terms of the physical and technical aspects, in terms of alternatives, in terms of conventional treatments, but also in terms of the social consequences and, not least, in terms of research into the causes of breast cancer. we need to learn from each other, and this is precisely the kind of cooperation for which the eu is also a good framework. the eu should launch european campaigns on prevention and education of women on how to examine their breasts, and national states should establish national mammography programmes in all member states, because early detection of breast cancer can significantly reduce mortality.
the committee on transport and tourism has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. commissioner, madam president of the council! in the financial perspective, the amount for the transeuropean networks, the 30 priority transport projects, was cut to one third of the amount originally considered necessary by the commission. we do not yet have the legal basis for financing and we do not know how the cut-off amount will be distributed in the coming years. that is why we have decided to put the entire amount for 2007, almost 800 million euros, in reserves until everything is settled. we cannot have the budget for the first year without having a clear idea of what is to be done in the years to come. so you don't build a half-bridge, it's either-or. for the three agencies for safety at sea, aviation and rail, we want the budget to be brought back to the commission figures. it is new agencies in the making that need the peace of mind. last but not least, i would like to highlight the pilot project for safe resting places along european motorways. with stricter rules on driving-rest times for drivers, it is important that european drivers have proper and safe resting conditions.
the alde group is not in favour of this. the budget we are presenting today is a responsible and sensible budget. we have not accepted the council's greenhouse savings in administrative expenditure, but on the other hand we have put 50 million euro from the commission's administrative budget in reserve with a demand for a better explanation of the development of some of the expenditure. we must not be hasty in setting the budget, but we must go into detail and make sure that exactly the funds are available that are needed. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr james ellis, for the approach he has taken in this year's budgetary work. i am thinking of the so-called value for money approach, which follows up on criticism from the court of auditors, cost-benefit studies and other reports. i would particularly like to highlight the cost-benefit studies as a good innovation, where we have gained a much better overview of, for example, the development of the commission's information and communication policy and the development of the common foreign and security policy. i would like to stress, especially to the liberal group, the need for adequate resources for justice and asylum policy and for foreign policy. there is a sharp contrast between the fine words which the eu's heads of state and government will be making in their toasts and the funds which their finance ministers will be making available. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be more active in the fight against terrorism, and for the eu to be more active in the fight against terrorism. it doesn't make any sense! and i'm glad we've come to an agreement to put this right. the financial perspective was not very well dealt with in terms of the eu's foreign policy. the clear responsibility of the budget we are presenting today is shown, however, by the fact that parliament has not sought to challenge the interinstitutional agreement. we have established a budget within the framework of the agreement. but the field of foreign policy is one which will require close attention in the years ahead. i believe that we in the european union have an obligation to promote better economic development and a perspective towards seeing democratic development as a hope and a positive thing, especially towards our close neighbours in central and eastern europe. the money must be used well, and we therefore ask the commission to ensure that the criticism of the court of auditors of the aid to russia is incorporated into the new programmes. as regards the budget of this parliament and of the other institutions, my group has followed the line of our rapporteur, mr louis grech, whom i would also like to thank for a good and serious piece of work. this means that the budget is somewhat below the level originally announced by the institutions, but after a thorough examination of each institution, the real needs have been assessed and thus an appropriate margin has been created. we have had a lot of discussions about whether parliament needs 20% of total administrative expenditure and we have come down to a figure in the lower half. my group supports the policy of recent years that parliament buys the buildings we inhabit, but we must ensure a clearer picture of the building budget needs in the years to come.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i am not sure that this is the case. my group does not want to interfere in spanish internal politics, but there are principles of international law which all countries are obliged to follow. sometimes they don't give a clear answer. the right of self-determination of peoples is an unbreakable principle. every people has the right to choose their own destiny. every nation has the right to its own country. but there are only about 10 or 12 countries in the world where people, nation and geographical unity merge into a higher unity. in other countries, solutions must be negotiated and respected by different peoples and nations within the same territorial unit. the eu does not interfere with the governance of countries. it is up to the member states to decide whether they want a single state, a federal community, self-government or division into several states. the states must protect minorities and respect human rights. national discrimination is prohibited! what can the eu do in the basque country to stop terrorism and secure a lasting solution of peace and tolerance? we can encourage our spanish colleagues to find a negotiated solution and contribute an economic carrot, support economic development, education and jobs instead of terror. i come from the border area between denmark and germany, where we have had wars and hatred for centuries. my grandfather was a german soldier with a danish heart. my father was conceived in germany, but was born in denmark because northern schleswig was returned to denmark by a referendum. our national leader, hans peter hansen, was moderate and did not want german-speaking areas to return to denmark when germany was defeated after the first world war. what happiness! the reconciliation between denmark and germany began there, and now everyone recognizes the border. denmark gives the german minority more rights than the danes, and the same for the danish minority in germany - for example, the exception to the five per cent threshold. recognition, respect for rights, privileges - this is the key to understanding and lasting peace. when i was a boy, i couldn't shop in a german-owned store. today, that seems unrealistic, and i am working with both the german minority in denmark and the danish minority in germany. we have jointly formulated the proposal for the protection of minorities in the charter of fundamental rights. i hope that the basques and the other peoples of spain will find their way to reconciliation. between denmark and germany, the means was a referendum on special rights. it doesn't hurt like gunpowder and bullets. you can put the past behind you! (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have replaced jan mulder today, who is absent for private reasons, and i would very much like to support mr goepels' proposal on behalf of my group. i would also like to criticise the presidency. it is absolutely indecent that this very important point - which we had to deal with this week for reasons of time - should now be treated in this way and treated in this way. i therefore support mr goepels' proposal to postpone both the debate and the vote.
mr president, the proposed constitution was approved by 500 votes to 137, and confirmed by 382 to 125 votes; so the opponents now have one in four votes in this house, but when we are represented at meetings abroad with the national parliaments, it is only 1 to 14. the ‘no’ side was not allowed to be present at berlin, london or paris. parliament has now sent a total of 58 representatives, 54 from the ‘yes’ side, only 4 from the ‘no’ side. in 7 of the 11 meetings the ‘no’ side was not present. last thursday the conference of presidents approved this discrimination against those of us who oppose the constitution. that is a very good example of how badly our d’hondt system works in relation to minorities in the big groups. some of us have established a fair chair reform programme. we call for a fair chair instead of a coronation, and fair representation instead of discrimination against small groups and minorities. we will present our platform at a press conference tomorrow at 2 p.m. in the press room. mr president, you are welcome to come.
for the pse group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the socialist group is of course not satisfied either that for many years now it has not been possible to give a positive statement, to approve the accounts of the european union by the court of auditors. we would like to begin by emphasizing this, of course, but at the same time we would also like to say that, despite the fact that we have many criticisms, we are working in a nuanced way, we are working progressively, we are working offensively in order to solve the problems naturally. it is not just about criticism, it is very much about finding out what specific kinds of problems there are that we are facing and how we can solve them. we think that the court of auditors should be commended for a detailed report. we have asked for more details many times in this group. we have asked for a greater degree of differentiation in relation to the different types of error. it's here, but it's not quite there yet. we would like, for example, to see a clearer distinction between what is fraud and what is a mistake. the commission is to be commended for introducing a new accounting system, the integrated financial control system for agricultural expenditure. there are several areas where progress has been made, but there is also, of course, cause for criticism, particularly in relation to internal policies, where, when reading the court of auditors' report, it has actually been set back from last year. we will of course use the discharge procedure to look at these things in more detail, to get some answers and probably also to look ahead and come up with some better solutions. we in the group strongly urge commissioner kallas and the court of auditors to continue their cooperation in order to resolve these problems in the best possible way.
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her great work on the report on a common european air traffic control system, sesar. i agree that there is a need to develop a new generation of european aviation systems so that we can guarantee safe and smooth air traffic in europe for the next 20 years. the current air control systems are outdated and too much governed by specific local conditions. they are therefore not particularly suitable for the rapid, economically sustainable and reliable development of air transport in europe. and that is why sesar is basically a good initiative which will make the air traffic management system in europe more efficient. compared to current air traffic control systems, sesar will provide more efficient and safer transport at a reasonable cost. but when it comes to environmental considerations, the commission's proposal does not adequately address the challenges that the increase in air traffic will bring in the coming years in europe. sesar must not only ensure safe air traffic management, but also the environmental benefits. i can therefore support the amendments which stress that sesar should lead to more energy-efficient air routes which save fuel and protect the environment. another important area is to clarify the benefits to the member states of sesar, i.e. the ownership of the tangible and intangible assets created through the sesar joint undertaking. at present, there is uncertainty as to what will happen to the ownership of the assets produced through the sesar joint undertakings once the ownership of sesar passes to industry. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the constituent members have continuous access to the knowledge and values created through sesar for their own and non-commercial product development. we should not end up in a situation where all the member states have standardized the technology in a european air traffic control system, while at the same time a private company owns the rights to this technology. i thank mrs hennicot-schoepges once again for her contribution and hope that by joint efforts we can launch sesar within the planned timeframe.
in writing. - the danish social democrats voted in favour of the commission's proposal to open up the possibility for member states to apply voluntary graduation in agricultural policy and thus voted against the parliament's report rejecting the commission's proposal. it should be stressed that the danish social democrats would prefer a comprehensive mandatory graduation, but as no agreement could be reached on this, a voluntary graduation is seen as a useful alternative. it should be stressed, however, that compulsory graduation - with the aim of eventually abolishing direct aid - remains the objective.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, mr president of the commission! it is good that the commissioners do not have the right to vote. we could soon have a vote in this house. it is also good that the commission is proposing more voluntary coordination through communications rather than binding rules, but i fear that the binding rules are instead coming from the court of justice and the commission's own application of competition and state aid rules. that is what the commission has done, for example, with the communication on music rights. parliament had adopted one position. the commission did not like it. they have then launched monopoly abuse cases and adopted a communication instead of rules which might never have been adopted. the european parliament and the national parliaments should demand that all draft communications be submitted. we can then say whether we want binding rules or a cocktail of court decisions and notices. i would like to commend the commission for sending proposals every week since 15 september for proximity and necessity tests in the member states, but i am aware that the parliaments have not sent a single reply. how lazy can you be as an elected official? on monday and tuesday, the national parliaments meet in helsinki for the cosac meeting. don't miss the opportunity to get a handle on the brussels law jungle. let all the trade union committees and the european committees give a colour signal for each proposal: black if the national parliament wants binding eu laws, green if it wants minimum provisions with the possibility of better protection of welfare, health, environment, working environment, safety, consumer protection and animal welfare, yellow if you just want voluntary coordination instead of binding laws and red if the eu has to stay away from a case altogether. with such a colour indication it will be very easy for the commission to see on a chart what is desired. it is then possible to have european cooperation which is governed from the bottom up, instead of the centralism we have today.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, parliament is today endorsing a directive on lawyers and judges. the luxembourg judges will decide what has been decided. the rules are very vague. i tried in vain to remove the worst ambiguity with three clear amendments. member states must be able to require compliance with local agreements for all service providers. the member states must be able to decide which services are to be provided by the public sector and which are to be provided by the market. the member states must be able to charge vat and other taxes also on services supplied from abroad. these are three important questions to which i have not been able to give a clear answer. the june movement is for a common market also for services, and we welcome workers and companies from the new member states in particular, but it must be at danish wages. there should be no competition for lower wages, worse working conditions or lower vat and tax rates.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for speaking. finally, the services directive is nearing completion. finally, after more than 12 years of ups and downs, we can breathe a sigh of relief and look forward to a single market in services, which may be amputated but is still better than nothing. i should like to use my short speaking time to highlight the problems of an amputated directive. gambling was removed from the scope of the directive. but what's going on? the commission, with mr mccreevy at its head, is investigating the tip monopolies of no less than 10 member states. health care services were also excluded from the scope of the directive, but less than a month ago the commission presented an ambitious plan for patient mobility. the consequence of a watered-down directive is that we are getting legislation dripped into our doorstep instead of having clear and precise rules for all sectors and areas of the eu on services. i'm sorry, but i'm gonna vote yes today because if you can't have what you love, you gotta love what you get.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am going to make a different speech than the one i have written down, since much of what i wanted to say has already been said. it is a good debate, and it is important to stress that this is an issue that must be tackled, both by ratifying conventions and by addressing the great social inequalities. let me say that it is not enough to ratify conventions. they must also be observed. and i can say that in a country like denmark, too little money is spent on sex trafficking. there is not enough investigation and the women who are victims of it have a maximum of 30 days before they are thrown out of the country. there is no time to get the help they need or to do anything about the problem. and we ask ourselves whether this is because women and children are actually accepted as tradable. i personally agree with the swedes that it has been shown that once you have the market, it is all too easy to create acceptance that this can happen and of course also to facilitate the criminals. they have a very easy way of entering an already established market with their victims, and until something is done about it, i do not think we will really be able to make it happen. we need to have this discussion because it is extremely important that we do something about it. as i said, i personally support the swedish proposal, but i am also very open to other things, provided we agree that not only ratification is necessary, but also changes of attitude and the means must be provided to make it really helpful, because before that happens, it will just be all the words that my swedish colleague said earlier that we should not have. and i can say that even beautiful objectives do not help the people who are traded with them if there is no proper effort, political will and proper action, and i hope that we can come together on this.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you do this. my fellow members! i would like to thank my colleagues and highlight some of the positive aspects of the specific programme 'capacity'. firstly, investment in research infrastructures is an essential prerequisite for innovation and the development of new knowledge. with a european perspective on research infrastructures, researchers increasingly benefit mutually from new investments across europe's borders. new and specialised forms of research infrastructures are costly and should therefore be available to as many researchers as possible. with common funds we can ensure that all european researchers have better access to the latest instruments. secondly, i think it is important that the programme allocates funds to a better integration of the dissemination aspect of research. if society is to reap the full benefits of european research, we must ensure that the results of research are brought into play by citizens, public authorities and business. high-quality research dissemination also helps to legitimize public investment in research and to stimulate young people's interest in becoming researchers. and in that context it is also important to emphasize the focus on women in research and on promoting women's opportunities to enter the world of research. the under-representation of women in the research community is well documented, not least by the commission's own women and research units. we must therefore work at both community and national level to make a career in research an attractive choice for both men and women. thirdly, i think it is important that research staff and research managers should not only be exchanged between partner organizations in the member states, but that exchange should also be extended to partners in associated countries and third countries. the eu's framework programmes are open to a number of partner countries, which the commission wants to involve more closely than before in the seventh framework programme. the participation of partner countries in the exchange of research staff will ensure added value for european knowledge sharing.
in writing. i am voting against all the reports on the revision of the framework programmes for research and training in the nuclear field in protest against the euratom treaty. instead, the 50th anniversary of the euratom treaty should be used as an occasion for a review to ensure that only those countries wishing to participate are included under article 43 of the treaty of nice on enhanced cooperation. this will ensure that member states which, like denmark, neither have nor intend to have nuclear power, will no longer be obliged to contribute to the financing. the june movement believes that investing in nuclear power as well as fusion energy is a bad investment. that's because the global potential of solar and wind energy is enormous. if we just harness one tenth of their potential, there's enough energy to power 30 times the global energy consumption by the year 2010. energy policy should therefore be limited to a plan to exploit this potential by further developing and disseminating existing technology, including wind turbines, solar cells and wave energy, and finally hydrogen as an energy carrier and storage.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the chemical reform is currently designed as total harmonization, which prohibits member states from introducing better protection of the health of citizens and the environment. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. we've called for a roll call to see who's taking responsibility for more cancer and allergies, for example. today we have a list of 150 unwanted substances in denmark. these are substances which have a negative impact on health and the environment and that list can hardly be maintained in a system of total harmonization. the protection of the environment and health is considered to distort competition in the internal market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore also an animal killer which we shall be voting on on wednesday. the compromise can only be defended if it becomes minimum rules. as for total harmonization, the proposal is too small for us!
mr president, i would like to thank you. there are about 100 000 chemicals on the market. the vast majority of these chemicals are unknown to us today. we don't know what their impact is on the environment, and we don't know what their impact is on health. of course, this is completely unacceptable, but we're gonna deal with it now with reach. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. firstly, we are reversing the burden of proof, so that in the future it will be up to industry to prove that a substance is not dangerous before they can be allowed to market it, whereas today it is up to the authorities to prove that a substance is dangerous before they can be allowed to ban it. the second basic principle, which is the most important principle, is that the most dangerous of these substances - those which cause cancer in humans, those which cause allergies in humans, those which affect the ability of humans to reproduce, and so on - are replaced. if a safer alternative is available, it should be used instead of the dangerous substance. this is a very important principle. it is also good to see that the use of animal testing will be reduced in the future. if we go through with reach, it'll lead to far fewer animal experiments. in the short term, there will be more trials because we need some data that we don't have today, but in the long term, reach will result in far fewer trials because we're introducing mandatory data sharing. it's definitely worth taking along. we've all been influenced by many different interest groups in this game. i'm sure you do. there are big interests at stake. that's the way it's got to be. there have been the green organizations on the one hand and the chemical organizations and their industry on the other. the question is what compromise we have got: whether it is 1-1, as i have seen a newspaper article proclaim. the answer is no. it doesn't say 1-1. we have reached a compromise where the green interests have clearly won. clearly, the health and environmental concerns have won. we used to have an open cargo door so that you could easily bring various chemicals to market and use them at your convenience. that cargo bay is almost closed. the gate is not completely closed, there is still a small crack, and of course we should have closed it in the ideal world, but we do not live in an ideal world. we have reached a compromise which is good for the environment and good for health.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council! this budgetary process has been straightforward from the outset. it is less than a year since we agreed on the agreement on the budget for the next seven years. and the budget we are voting on thursday is well within the agreed framework. we have achieved good results with this budget agreement. we have secured a financial regulation with less bureaucracy, with more transparency as to who receives agricultural aid and with a common blacklist of companies which have defrauded eu funds. and we have secured a budget which, within the given framework, meets our political wishes. the 2007 budget is the first budget of the new seven-year framework and is characterised by the launching of the many new programmes for the structural funds, research, training, etc. this is the first budget in which the actual agricultural aid is lower than the appropriations for the development of the poorer regions. agricultural aid accounts for about one third of the budget of just under 126 billion euro. the bulk of the 2007 budget is thus devoted to growth and solidarity in the eu. we have secured more funds for the common refugee policy and for foreign policy and more openness about the common foreign and security policy. in the administrative field, we in parliament were more willing than the council to allocate the necessary funds, but we of course agree that the eu's administration must be made more efficient, flexible and adapted to new needs. i regret that we have not yet received an explanation from the council and the commission which would make it possible to remove the reserve from the rural development appropriation. the voluntary modulation must not interfere with parliament's budgetary powers. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr james elles, mr louis grech, mr giovanni pittella and mrs ingeborg gräßle, for a great, good and serious job, which i think has been crowned with a good result.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their hard work on this report. i am very pleased that this institute is finally becoming a reality. despite legislation and good intentions, we still do not have equality in europe today. this is reflected in the persisting gender pay gap and the significant under-representation of women in all types of decision-making bodies - political, public and private. europe desperately needs this institute and needs accurate knowledge, analysis and recommendations in the field of equality. i believe that the institute will play an important role in europe both as an inspiration and as a knowledge-disseminator in the field of equality. by collecting data and sharing best practice, the foundation can lead the way in proposing and implementing strategies to break down barriers to equality. many member states need a boost. the need to identify and remove barriers to equal pay can be highlighted. today we have far too little knowledge of the area and we lack the tools to address the differences. this means that inequalities persist despite legislation and fine statements that we want things to be different. i am very pleased that the eu can take the lead in showing that work on gender equality should be a high priority on the political agenda and i hope that this will give life to the efforts of the member states.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, tomorrow our prime ministers will meet in brussels for a summit and they will revive the dead constitution. finland is submitting a report on the positions of each country after the countries have been through the so-called secret ballot procedure, and the negotiations have taken place behind closed doors and under the leadership of a country where two thirds of the voters are against the constitution. give us that report now, madam council president. what was the french government's response to the french electorate's rejection? what was the dutch government's response to the 62% 'no' majority in the netherlands? the german presidency will continue to work on the report and prepare the 25 march declaration and the adoption of a treaty text under the portuguese presidency. this text will then have to be ratified by the member states. never again will a referendum seem to be the elite's answer to the people's no. we could also take a different route and listen to the citizens' protest. why not involve citizens in the development of new common rules? why not put together a new convention by direct elections with the task of writing a democratic constitution and an alternative cooperation agreement between european democracies and then send the two proposals to a referendum on the same day in all the countries of europe? then we will all know the verdict of the electorate. it will then be easy to draw up an agreement which the citizens will welcome and vote for. start by deciding that the result should be put to the vote in all countries where possible, then the drafters will have to prepare a text that can be adopted. the headlines will then be openness, proximity and democracy instead of closure, remote control and bureaucracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, i should like to thank the president-in-office of the council and the president of the commission for an excellent job. the list is long and you have also made preparations for the middle east and for further progress. i just wish to repeat what my dear friend and colleague the chairman of the socialist group presented to you as an offer that you cannot refuse – a sicilian offer. let me say quite seriously that, yes, we want to keep moving forward with regard to turkey and we do not want to shut the door on the balkans. however, to ensure that people are with us, we must do more. people are worried and insecure. they do not have answers concerning their job opportunities, their children’s educational possibilities. do these two things have something in common with each other? yes, they do. people within the european union are uncertain about enlargement. therefore, to make enlargement successful now and in the future, we need to have more jobs, we need to combine competition and social security, and that is where the pes and our socialist group come in. i was not surprised to hear mr watson talk about competition. but i am surprised that he did not know our position. we are not against competition but against a one-sided approach to competition. the only way things work in modern times is to combine social security in a new framework with competition. that is an offer you cannot refuse, president of the commission. i have it here, signed by me, and with greetings from my good friend, martin schulz, jacques delors – one of your predecessors – and myself. what is it about? it is simple. it says: listen, dear citizens, europe is the extra added value to ensure that our welfare states in the global economy do not enter into a competition of social dumping but enter into a competition of increased qualifications, better organisation of our welfare states, and reforms. they will not be reforms that people fear will take something away from them, but sincere reforms: we are going to reform and it will not be same as before. it will be better. what i am saying is: let us unite our forces now and send a clear signal not just from the spring council but each and every european council. let it be a fixture on the agenda to the benefit of people, to enlargement and to the unity of the european union.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament - poul nyrup rasmussen, britta thomsen, christel schaldemose, dan jørgensen and ole christensen - voted against amendment no 1, tabled by mr tomczak and mr bonde, from the ind-dem group. the delegation considers that the amendment is incompatible with the rules in force and has therefore been forced to vote against it. the delegation would, however, like to emphasise its support for a general reduction in eu agricultural aid without any discrimination between member states. the danish social democrats in the european parliament - poul nyrup rasmussen, britta thomsen, christel schaldemose, dan jørgensen and ole christensen - voted against amendment no 2, tabled by mr tomczak and mr bonde, from the ind-dem group. the delegation considers that the proposed amendment is incompatible with the existing statutes and has therefore been forced to vote against it. however, the danish social democrat delegation believes that there is a need for a reform of the rules on travel costs so that in future they are paid in proportion to actual consumption. in this context, the delegation refers to its work on the new statutes of the european parliament's work, which will enter into force in 2009. in this context, the delegation welcomes the introduction of new rules under the new statutes, under which travel costs will be covered in line with actual consumption from 2009.
in writing. the members of the european parliament on the left voted against amendments nos 1 and 2, tabled by mr tomczak and mr peter bonde, ind/dem group. the left supports a reform of agricultural aid but does not think that this is the way to go, nor does it think that the report on the annual budget is the place to express the wish for proposals to this end. mr. bond's proposal must be considered ill-considered. the left also advocates a reform of travel allowances to reimburse all reasonable and necessary travel costs. however, this has already been decided with the new member state, which will be implemented from 2009. mr. bond's proposal is contrary to the statute and must therefore be considered ill-considered.
in writing. it is deeply unfair to discriminate against the new countries by not giving them the same support as the old member states. i have nevertheless voted in favour of the transitional arrangements, as they could mean that bulgaria and romania would get nothing if they were not adopted. i am generally against agricultural aid, which i believe should be abolished. that is why i would have preferred to see aid to the old member states reduced so that everyone would have a level playing field. this reduction should start from the top - by placing a ceiling of eur 40 000 per legal unit, as i have proposed in my amendment to the budget.
