i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 15 december 2005.
colleagues, the new year is usually a time of optimism for the future, but this year we were all saddened by the tragic and untimely death on new year’s eve of phillip whitehead, the wise and able chairman of our committee on the internal market and consumer protection. phillip was highly respected across this house. he arrived here in 1994, bringing with him his experience as a producer of television documentaries and as a national politician, together with his strong and unwavering support for an active role for his country in the european union. today, i would like us to remember him and his achievements here, from laws on the media, to others on food safety; from his tireless defence of the rights of consumers, to his work in helping to make the historic enlargement to central and eastern europe a reality. i would also highlight the wisdom, political skill and good humour he brought to bear in piloting the controversial and complex services directive through his committee. dear phillip, we will all miss you. i ask all of you here today to share a minute’s silence in his memory. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, a radio station owned by the catholic hierarchy in spain has launched a campaign of apologizing for francoism and coup d'étatism. the european union was built on the values of freedom and pluralism, and in several of our countries, denial of the holocaust or the vindication of nazism and fascism are crimes. in spain, it is not a crime to defend the crimes of francoism, but those who do must be morally reprobated. as the latest proof of the radio station's delusional attitude, one of its so-called "journalists" posed as president zapatero to fraudulently interview bolivia's elected president evo morales. the impersonation of the president is a crime punishable by ten years in prison in the united states, but we are not asking for prison sentences or measures of precautionary detention; we are asking this parliament for a moral sanction which could be a penalty of one hundred our fathers and fifty ave maria in forgiveness of their sins.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wish to denounce on behalf of the european people's party that this coming weekend the terrorist organisation batasuna, the political arm and cradle of the criminal eta, intends to hold its congress in the basque country. as you know, batasuna is illegal in spain and is on the european union's list of terrorist organisations, and it would be a real scandal for batasuna to hold this event, because it would be a direct attack on the state of liberties and the rule of law of a member of the european union which is spain, a democratic indignity for europe, a submission to the views of the eta-batasuna terrorists and, above all, a betrayal of the victims of terrorism and a contempt for their memory. ladies and gentlemen, can you imagine that an outlawed party such as the nazi party would want to hold a congress in germany or austria? can you imagine that al qaeda would want to hold an event in new york? it is unimaginable. in spain, terrorists are once again trying to break the law. these days, unfortunately, there are statements coming from the basque nationalist government and the socialist government of the nation which are aimed at laying the red carpet for these terrorists so that they can parade on it without problems at their next congress. the european parliament must denounce this act that eta-batasuna wants to celebrate and raise its voice in favour of strict compliance with the law of parties.
mr president, in spain, although it may bother some, there has long been freedom of the media. so while some radio stations invent suicide bombers, others are dedicated to serious information. i know from cope that on 29 november last year the president of the autonomous community of la rioja sent you, mr president, a letter asking you to cooperate and take an active stance in defence of spanish, knowing that the commission had cut the number of spanish translators and interpreters by 33%. that letter was sent to president zapatero and commissioner almunia, but none of you have done anything to defend the spanish on this occasion. that is why i ask you, in order not to discriminate against spaniards in relation to other citizens of the union, to do something in favour of our common language, because you have been elected to this house on a spanish list.
of course i've been chosen on a spanish list. i could have been elected on a list from any other country in the european union, as you know. but i do not think, madam president, that spanish has suffered any deterioration in this parliament. if you have any specific case for me to be concerned about, please let me know, but i do not think that anyone has perceived any detriment, any grievance, or any lack of consideration for the spanish language in the european parliament.
i would like to thank you very much, mrs morgan, and i will pass this on to the commission, which will, incidentally, present its new proposals for the lisbon strategy at the next conference of presidents. it will be a good opportunity for the political groups to draw attention to the subject you have referred to in your speech.
mr president, let me make it clear to this parliament that the decision on the request for a meeting referred to by mr iturgaiz earlier is currently in the hands of the spanish judiciary and therefore it is up to the prosecutor and the judge to decide in the state of law that is spain where the judiciary is independent, and this, moreover, following a procedure that has been debated and agreed in the spanish parliament; it is therefore a fully democratic decision. finally, i would just like to remind you that this parliament has historically supported the peace process and the eradication of violence. we hope and are convinced that this will continue to be your practice.
this morning i signed a letter to the honourable member in reply to your letter on this subject.
mr. czarnecki, we will consider your proposal. i have received a representative of the workers this morning, whom i have asked to put an end to the demonstrations taking place around parliament. the delegation of dockers, of workers who were demonstrating, were in complete agreement with me in trying to prevent these demonstrations of a violent nature, and i am sure they are doing everything they can to control their troops. it is never easy; as we know from experience, in every collective there is always a percentage of rioters. this closes this spot.
the next item is the commission statement on homophobia in europe.
mr president, in the 21st century, homophobia cannot simply be condemned; it must be combated politically and legally. homophobia can only be understood as a combination of ignorance and impunity. the treaties themselves state that the european institutions must ensure that the rights and freedoms of their member states are respected. this means fighting against the ignorance and impunity of homophobic statements and actions, which are not only taking place but are growing in some european countries. i deeply regret statements such as those made in poland and decisions such as those taken in the latvian parliament, which fundamentally violate the principle of equal rights, which must prevail in the construction of the single values on which the european union is based. i therefore urge the commission to condemn homophobia and to put in place the legal and political mechanisms so that one day it will be just a thing of the past. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would just like to add a few words at this point in the debate, which, by its breadth and depth, has shown that, unfortunately, homophobia is still a serious and present problem throughout europe. that is why your words, commissioner frattini, have not convinced many, because of their coldness and the lack of a profound and proactive commitment to combating this scourge. the commission and the member states must take much more decisive action, the latter being prompted by the commission itself. homophobia is there, in the customs, in the uses, in the language, in everything. not only in the countries where the incidents that have given rise to this debate have occurred, such as poland, but also in countries like my own, spain, where much progress has been made on this issue, but in whose society, authorities and certain strata there is still this attitude of homophobia that we must continue to actively combat. i subscribe to the words spoken by many colleagues, especially the very emotional words of michael cashman.
on behalf of the alde group. the report is about something as basic as the link between citizens, between people - to avoid using a term which is now misleading - and the political project we are trying to develop, and it contains a series of very profound statements, all of which are interrelated and all of which are important. firstly, nationality remains a matter for the member states; there is still a political entity in europe called the 'state'. that's true, even if some of us don't like it very much. if we ignore this fact, we will only be building utopias. however, it must be borne in mind that, in some ways, nationality is also a matter for the european union. it involves all of us. when a state illegitimately refuses to grant citizenship to persons who have been resident on its territory for many years, it is denying them access to european citizenship, which alone enables us and the european commission, without any amendment to the treaties, to assess this question. the member states grant european citizenship: we cannot be indifferent to that. on the other hand, we cannot allow millions of people in europe to contribute to our welfare and wealth with their labour and their taxes without having any political rights whatsoever. the concrete implementation of the solution to this problem is complicated. but we cannot accept that so many millions of people are in that situation: contributing, but without the right to have a say in their own future. i therefore welcome this report. i think it is indeed possibilist, and in some cases goes a little beyond what the treaties allow or what some of us would support: for example, the european parliament and the national parliaments must have the same legitimacy, and so i do not think that at this moment it is possible to ask that certain people be allowed to vote in european parliament elections and not be allowed to vote in national elections. both parliaments should have equal legitimacy and both developments, when they come, must take place at the same time. the commission must do a much better job of publicising the rights which european citizens have today, for example in consular matters and in so many other areas where they do not even know what rights they have. the commission can make a major contribution to this debate by providing transparency on what the individual member states are doing in a field which is and will remain, for the time being, within its competence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, may i begin by congratulating mr catania on his excellent report, which i wholeheartedly endorse. it is true that there is no european demos yet, but it is also true that we europeans have decided to share a common destiny and that the strengthening and development of european citizenship will undoubtedly help us all to feel more and more involved in the european project we are carrying out. it is important to remember that millions of our fellow citizens live outside the territory of the union - the spanish alone are almost a million - and it is also important to remember that, regardless of where we are born or where we live, we are all europeans. there can be no first- and second-class europeans. i myself am the son of immigrants and have spent most of my life outside the union's borders. i know firsthand how important it is to maintain the link with the country of origin and how necessary it is to bring the union closer to europeans abroad. we must ensure that the rights conferred by this citizenship are guaranteed to europeans living in switzerland or argentina or anywhere else on the planet, in the same way as they are guaranteed to europeans living in france, germany or any other state of the union. the commission should therefore, in its white paper on the evolution of citizenship, provide for all appropriate measures to improve the conditions for the exercise of these rights and to ensure that they are also fully effective outside the union. mr catania, i thank you for accepting the amendments which go in this direction and i hope that the commission will take account of the requests of this house.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, the fact that trafficking in human beings for sexual exploitation is the fastest growing criminal activity today and that the european union is no stranger to this phenomenon forces us to react. i therefore fully support the prets report, which calls on the commission and the council to establish a clear legal framework to combat this form of violence. in this context, there must obviously be preventive measures that support the development and 'empowerment' of women in their countries of origin, to prevent them from falling into the hands of those who take advantage of their vulnerability, and exemplary punitive measures against those who profit from trafficking in human beings. in any case, we must remember that these people are the victims who must be dealt with politically, socially and legally, and that in any case we must ensure - as is done in some countries, for example, belgium and italy - that, in order to make it easier for them to denounce their pimps, their right to reside is recognised after the presentation of that complaint. when these measures are taken seriously, we may be able to eradicate human trafficking much more effectively.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur and focus my speech on the use of new information and communication technologies, in particular the internet, and on the trafficking of women and children for sexual exploitation, which is also mentioned in the report and has not yet been dealt with in this debate. ladies and gentlemen, everything that is illegal in society is also illegal in the information society. the laws in force in each country also apply to the users and generators of new information and communications technologies, but in practice the very extraterritorial nature of these technologies and the fact that these laws differ from one country to another make their application extremely difficult. the fact that a crime information point can be set up for trafficking in women, children or any other criminal activity for very little money, that this point is accessible from anywhere in the world and that the point of consumption of the information does not have to be in the same country where the information originated, makes enforcement of the laws very difficult. in addition, it is technologically possible to use the very mechanisms offered by new information and communications technologies to make it more difficult for those pursuing crime to access information that could be criminal. this adds further difficulties to the prosecution of the crime and, consequently, to the application of the law. if we really want europe to be an area in which freedom and security are compatible values that reinforce each other, we must also tackle this problem decisively, in depth and jointly. this is a difficult problem which requires cooperation at european level. knowing the risks, the rights and where to turn to defend yourself is essential for the protection of people. education is essential in this respect and, for this purpose, information and communication technologies themselves offer extremely positive possibilities. we therefore call on the commission, in coordination with the member states, to tackle this aspect of the matter under discussion with energy and urgency.
author. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on international trade of parliament, which i have the honour of chairing, has been involved in the preparation of the wto ministerial conference in hong kong and is currently continuing its work towards the next stages in the negotiation of the development agenda. as you know, a delegation from parliament followed the conference on the spot. i had the opportunity to tell commissioner mandelson that in hong kong the commission, parliament and council were more united than in brussels, which was important for the difficult negotiation. we are now in the process of evaluating what happened in hong kong and preparing recommendations for the future of the negotiations. the committee will draw up an own-initiative report, with mr papastamkos as rapporteur. we hope that it can be adopted in april, so that the conclusions can be on the table for the meeting on 30 april. as far as the results are concerned, we are at a stage where it can be said that the most important thing is that we have reached the end of it. i share the commissioner's assessment that the results are insufficient to make the meeting a success, but sufficient to prevent a failure. progress has been made on agricultural export subsidies, cotton production and trade and access to duty-free and quota-free markets for the least-developed countries' exports. it is important to be able to confirm to our partners in the developing countries that we remain true to our commitment to make this a round for development. however, we are still far from a balanced overall outcome and there is still a lot of work to be done if we want this round to be concluded by the end of this year, given the limitation imposed by the expiry of the us trade promotion authority's congressional authorization. in hong kong a series of intermediate stages were defined, with important elements such as the definition of modalities for the elimination of the different types of agricultural export subsidies, the reduction of domestic support for agriculture and the improvement of conditions for access to agricultural markets. it will be necessary to assess jointly whether the necessary, but not sufficient, conditions exist for reaching a global agreement. as i said before, the important meeting at the end of april is to be held in geneva, and we believe that the european parliament should be represented in the manner we agree. we will follow this point in a constant and vigilant manner. there are three points i would like to raise with the commissioner. firstly, the negotiation on services, which is essential from the union's point of view, is at present subject to a different timetable from that of the negotiation on agriculture and market access. how do you intend to ensure a balance of concessions in these three sectors, while respecting the timetable? the question of geographical indications of origin, which is very important for the european union, particularly in order to ensure the future of agriculture as a counterpart to the elimination of subsidies and also to defend our quality products, seems to be lagging behind. how does the commissioner see the way out of this delay? finally, with regard to the situation of our emerging partner countries, which will be able to benefit from the 'everything but arms' initiative, which is an important european initiative, and which may suffer from the erosion of their preferences, how do you intend to win the support of the countries close to us for a possible agreement in which we have to balance between disadvantages and prospects? it is obviously a complex process, in which we must be able to strike a balance between the union's offensive interests, the defensive interests and the legitimate ambitions of the developing countries, and also convince our fellow citizens that our interests are best served in a wto that is stronger, more open and more democratic. in conclusion, madam president, on behalf of the committee on international trade, i would like to thank commissioners mandelson and fischer boel and their negotiating teams for their efforts and attention to us. i can assure you that you will have strong, albeit critical, support in the european parliament to achieve these objectives. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at this stage of the debate practically everything has been said. perhaps the most important and relevant thing, as the commissioner has said, is that parliament is fully associated with the negotiations which the commission is conducting. as for the valuation of hong kong, we have heard all kinds of things, but no one is completely satisfied. it is like the proverb of the bottle: some see it as half full and others as half empty. has there been a total failure? i'm not sure. has there been a total success? i'm not either. perhaps success is that there has been no failure, as at first one thought might have occurred. what role has the european union played? i think it is fair to acknowledge that the commission and the commissioner who has been in charge have played a very worthy role, and that must be acknowledged here, as well as the fact that our institution has been fully informed by the commission services, which is a very important step in the work referred to by the commissioner. some would like us to make more concessions in agriculture, but the european union has clearly done its homework in this field with the reform of the cap, as it has done with the reform of fisheries with the cfp. it is others who have to make progress in this field and, as has been said here, perhaps the most glaring thing at this summit was precisely the hypocritical position of the united states in relation to the european union on agriculture and also on development issues. we have not made any progress in services and we need others to be determined to open up their markets to our large service companies: this is key for everyone. for them too, since services affect all economic sectors and are a crucial issue for the european union. the talks and negotiations are ongoing; they are complex, requiring skill, patience and a great deal of willingness to dialogue and reach consensus. we hope and wish that the doha round can be concluded to the benefit of all, yielding to all and reaching a satisfactory compromise for freer and fairer trade, with multilateral and more transparent rules, and we thank you, commissioner, for continuing to be in touch with parliament. as you said, to involve parliament is to involve the citizens. we represent the citizens and it is very useful that we all agree.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the bad omen, the doha development round and the wto are still alive. of course, now we have to keep working with a tight schedule. i also welcome the cooperation we have had at this last ministerial conference and i believe that, as has been said, this house must remain closely associated with the whole negotiating process, including the general council of 30 april in geneva. i congratulate the commission on the achievements it has made in the field of the elimination of export subsidies and similar measures. now, commissioner, could you elaborate on the commitments and timetable made by our trading partners in terms of export credits, food aid and state enterprises? in view of the time constraints, has the commission decided on any policy initiative to encourage the major players, including emerging economies, to honour their commitments to successfully close this year's development round? finally, how do you think the agreements reached in hong kong will affect the negotiations on the desirable agreement between the european union and mercosur?
mr president, commissioner, after having been rejected in the last parliament, we are now returning to the commission's proposal for the liberalization of port services, and we are back in virtually the same situation, because essentially nothing or very little has changed with regard to the text we rejected at the time. the proposal is similar and the rapporteur is the same, and i say this with all respect and affection to my colleague, mr jarzembowski, but i think the majority rejection is also the same. as i am in favour of the liberalisation of markets in general and of port services in particular, i cannot support this proposal, firstly because it is intended to deal only with services provided within each port, with the healthy intention of encouraging free competition, but does not deal with the purported practices which are contrary to the competition rules between different european ports. i think there are many things that need to be changed in the usual practices of many ports. i think there are some abuses and forms of recruitment that are imposed on service providers that are unacceptable. however, i do not think that changes can be made in such a blunt way. we must ensure an orderly transition and ensure safe and efficient port operations on the one hand and safeguard the rights of workers on the other. i believe that companies have the right to choose their workers freely but should first hire those who have already been doing certain jobs and whose employment contracts are in force. and as in other sectors of the economy which have been hit by crises, if there is a surplus of workers, a suitable restructuring plan will have to be negotiated between the unions, the employers and the administration. europe and this parliament must not be seen by the citizens as an instrument of savage capitalism. proposals such as this, which we are discussing today and which i hope we will reject, have influenced the dutch and french 'no's' to the constitutional treaty. we must modernise our economy, but with the necessary cover and protection for the people concerned, which is the first objective of all political action. we shall thus have greater moral authority to reject the use of violence as we saw yesterday.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the fate of this rule, because it seems that the house is very divided, as a classic spanish saying goes, sometimes you have to say what you feel and feel what you say, in the face of unacceptable pressures in the form however legitimate. the european parliament is faced today with a dilemma: either we make progress towards the creation of a genuine internal market or we remain in a state of stagnation. for my part, i am determined to support a proposal whose basic principles and objectives are set out in the lisbon programme and in the transport white paper. improving competition between port service providers will increase the competitiveness and efficiency of ports and contribute to the development of maritime freight services, which is ultimately the main objective of the commitment to maritime transport in the union. one of the key elements of the proposal, but one which has been the subject of the greatest controversy, is the explicit inclusion of self-help. it is essential that the member states ensure that a mode of provision of port services is recognised which contributes to the real development of short sea shipping, which by its very nature requires efficiency and speed in operations not only of customs but also of loading and unloading. in the face of the fear of those who believe that the adoption of this directive will lead to a reduction in the working conditions of workers, it must be made clear that the directive respects not only the legislation of the member states on working conditions, vocational training and qualifications, but also those relating to health, safety at work, maritime safety and environmental protection. in addition, the transfer of cargo to ports will increase the volume of port operations, which in turn will lead to an increase in employment.
mr president, i must say that my country is situated at a key maritime crossroads from the commercial and logistical point of view, since we are the european hub between the mediterranean and the atlantic; hence the importance of having modern, efficient and well-managed ports from an economic point of view, since they must be competitive. spanish ports are self-sufficient and self-financing compared to other ports. it is therefore necessary to assess the issue of aid to ports, of state aid, also from a social point of view - well-trained workers, with quality jobs and with all their labour rights, which is often not the case in maritime law - and, finally, also from an environmental point of view: many of the services in question are fundamental for safety and environmental protection. this new proposal has achieved a rare unanimity, since even those in my country who had identified useful aspects to solve certain bottlenecks and obsolete practices that still persist in our ports, have preferred and prefer today to reject it. i am convinced that this parliament will do the right thing and reject this proposal, which has sufficiently demonstrated its inadequacy for the present needs of european ports, and i ask the commissioner to be sensitive, as he has shown himself to be in other areas of transport, and to prepare as soon as possible, because the global situation requires it, an updated, necessary and courageous consultation process which will openly and in depth address all the necessary aspects of european ports, so that we can have solutions in good time so that european ports can be the poles of economic, social, technological and environmental development that europe needs and, given the overall picture, contribute to a better articulated and more cohesive europe.
mr president, mr commissioner for transport, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking here as the rapporteur designated by the ppe-de group for the report on the european union's relations with russia and china in the field of air transport. i would like to reiterate here the conclusions we already drew in the committee on transport and tourism. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, both mr el khadraoui and mr zīle. i think, mr zīle, that your work has been absolutely positive, because it has enabled all the groups in this parliament to understand the scope of this proposal and the need to create a genuine common airspace to consolidate our position in the world. the european union must strengthen its ties with its partners, including russia and china. russia, ladies and gentlemen, is a priority for the european union, not only as a neighbouring country, but also for a number of reasons which are peculiar to russia, both economically and politically. with 75% of foreign passenger traffic going to the european community, the european union must be able to present our russian partners with a proposal for a future global agreement in the aviation sector, which we believe should be developed in stages and once the problem of the payment of overflying rights in siberia has been resolved. this last point, ladies and gentlemen, is a real obstacle to the start of negotiations and we believe that the european union must maintain a very firm and demanding position vis-à-vis our russian colleagues. in this respect, we welcome the words of commissioner barrot here this morning. as far as china is concerned, we are also in favour of reaching a global agreement, since the market opportunities china presents for the european union are immense. the chinese giant is expected to register a sustained growth in the commercial aviation sector of between approximately 9% and 15% in the coming years. china is also undertaking a process of reform and liberalisation in its aviation sector, facilitating foreign investment and undertaking a significant airport construction programme. however, in order to successfully start negotiations with our chinese partners, china must also first of all reach a horizontal agreement with the european union and must resolve the problem of the siberian flyover, which is a mandatory step for european airlines to reach china.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the two rapporteurs, mr zile and mr el khadraoui. i would like to congratulate the latter on his very good work, which is particularly relevant as a milestone on the road to building open skies between the european union and third countries, and which allows us to reflect precisely now on the achievements made and the remaining challenges which require certain conditions of social and environmental equity. i would also like to congratulate the commissioner, who is using the community mandate successfully with admirable diligence and who, by gradually overcoming obsolete and increasingly ineffective bilateralism, is enabling us to take forward the initiative which often brings a negotiating advantage of credibility in the construction of european open skies. in this respect, his special reference to the transition from national to european companies is extremely encouraging. i would stress, however, some aspects which concern us, particularly the delay in the agreement with the united states. we know that this is a well-known delaying practice in negotiation: believing that you will gain greater advantages, you must eventually get closer or join the rest. the kyoto protocol has shown us that. we therefore encourage you to strengthen this front. i would also like to stress the need to overcome bilateralism in the negotiations with russia and, of course, its unacceptable policy of surcharges, which is completely contrary to international rules. these are lessons which we should obviously also apply to the negotiations with china which are under way. we would also like the reinforced european aviation safety agency to find a way of coordinating decisively and unequivocally with eurocontrol, so that it does not override an apparent struggle between the two, which may prove contradictory. finally, i would say that in the case of the implementation of the agreements or the demand for environmental standards and legislation on social rights, we would like to see international standards closer to the highest european standards, i.e. upward standardization, increasingly appearing in these negotiations. in this connection, i would like the commissioner to inform us of the state of play of the conversion of jar ops to eu ops, that is to say, all the rules on flight time and rest time following the agreement reached in the council, which we believe is also important in the context of the negotiation of the union's external policy in the field of air transport.
mr president, commissioner, the european union is in a state of shock following the crisis between ukraine and russia. and this is largely because, up to now, russia has always shown, even in times of intense internal turmoil, that it is a reliable energy ally, and at no time in the past have the member states of the union seen their gas supplies from russia interrupted or reduced. the three days of the crisis have served to bring countries like italy close to unlocking their strategic reserves and, above all, to make the union as a whole realize once again the extreme vulnerability of its supply system. the time has therefore come to seriously consider the possibility of investing in alternative supply routes by improving dialogue with stable partners such as the republic of kazakhstan. we must start thinking about importing gas from this country via turkey, for example, a candidate country and therefore extraordinarily safe. we must also maintain and strengthen research and development activities at european level on new sources of energy and make more efficient use of the existing ones. and, of course, mrs harms, we cannot do without any primary energy source. not one. and above ideological prejudices, we must face up to the reality. if you want to commit energy suicide, you are free to do so, but the sacrifice has to be individual. don't try to kill us all against our will. finally, mr president, i would ask the commission to continue to put pressure on the member states to achieve a common energy policy, which this crisis has shown that we need without any doubt. let's not wait for the next crisis to take action that will be more traumatic and possibly too late.
member of the commission. in particular, i would like to point out first of all that we have various financial instruments available to both the countries of the european union and the neighbouring countries. i am simply referring to the cohesion fund, the regional development fund, the rural development fund, etc. but there are also funds for the neighbouring countries. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial perspective for the period 2007-13 is based on the principle of the financial perspective for the period 2007-13 and the principle of the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013. we also have a series of measures which will be available both in the european and the neighbouring mediterranean countries from the european union water initiative and in particular the mediterranean water initiative and also a series of guidelines for best practice which will of course have the appropriate financial support.
commissioner, the european environment agency, in its 2004 report, stated that europe had increased its temperature by one degree above the average for the rest of the world. has the commission considered the establishment of a european drought observatory? another consequence of the drought is devastating fires. has the commission considered financial aid for fire prevention and mitigation in the rural areas affected?
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr fruteau on his efforts to improve the commission's proposal, which represents a complete change in the sugar policy pursued by the european union since 1968 and which will also end beet cultivation in many regions of the european union. i would like to mention, however repetitively, the contempt which the council has shown towards this parliament by reaching an agreement and communicating it to the media before taking parliament's opinion into account. a gentleman's agreement has been violated, which has always existed in the institutions. with these anti-democratic gestures, it is not surprising that citizens do not believe in the institutions and vote as they vote and go to vote as they go to vote. the political agreement reached by the council is closer to the commission's proposal than to what the european parliament will vote on tomorrow. i shall just refer to prices. you have agreed to a reduction of 36%, whereas the commission's proposal is 39% and we are going to vote in parliament for a 30% reduction. i also want to express my dissatisfaction with the comparative burden that will be placed on countries which have a share of production below their consumption and therefore do not produce the surpluses which theoretically require this reform. these countries are penalized, while an extra quota is allowed for the large c sugar producers. finally, everyone is talking about the production of biofuels as an alternative to beets which they are going to take off the market, but how and when are they going to put the means in? i am sure you do not think, madam commissioner, that with one and a half million hectares for energy crops and a subsidy of 40 euros per hectare we are going to be able to respond to the many farmers who are going to lose their livelihoods.
mr president, first of all i would like to highlight the efforts made by the committee on agriculture and rural development to reach agreement between all the political groups, which is not easy, given that the commission's initial proposal was more about the disappearance of sugar production than about its reform, without taking into account its social cost. so i think this year's hard work has paid off. secondly, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr jean-claude fruteau, who in his three regulations has expressed moderation, balance, solidarity and, above all, the reality of the future of the sector, not only in the 21 producing countries of the european union but also in the acp countries and the least developed countries. i also want to add to the many criticisms heard in the house about the unease caused by the council's adoption of a political agreement without waiting for parliament's report. we hope that this will not set a precedent for future reforms. finally, after so much work, i would like to refer to the double language that some members have maintained from the beginning - i think it is good to remember this now that we have reached the end - by voting in favour of the fruteau report in the committee on agriculture and rural development and then, when they get to their country, criticising everything. some of us have worked to reach agreements, to bring positions closer together, to achieve what has finally become a reality. we are not happy with the reforms, we have never been happy with them, but we must admit that we have improved the difficult initial situation. i think it is now time to send a clear message from this european parliament. ladies and gentlemen, it is always better to build than to destroy by system. it is preferable to do things with the next generation in mind rather than the next election, because time always gives us the reason and the strategy of confrontation without arguments that has been installed in my country does not lead to any positive solution. i would like to end by asking for support for the fruteau report, which is a good report, which could improve the council's agreement and which, if it comes out of this parliament strengthened, will allow us to continue to move towards a better future for the sector.
mr president, the political agreement already reached by the agriculture ministers - including the spanish socialist minister, for whom it should have been abandoned by now - will undoubtedly be adopted at the end of the month under the a items on the agenda, that is to say without any debate. no need to, everything is discussed. unfortunately, the discussion we are having today in the european parliament will have no impact on the final decision. in future, it would be desirable to avoid parliament's voice being silenced in such a resounding way, especially in decisions with such important economic and social consequences. but the european commission must not use any excuse as an alibi to ignore parliament's opinion, as it has done on this occasion. i would like to make it clear, if there is still any doubt, that this report, which will be put to the vote on thursday, is a long way from the political agreement reached by the member states, both on sugar prices and on compensation to farmers or the freedom of member states to keep some of the coupled aid, which is of course not covered by the agreement of the 25 in the council. the parliament's report distributes the effort to reduce promotion more equitably by abolishing the additional quota of 1 million tonnes referred to above as c. these are just some of the examples that we can find if we compare one text with another, but the list could be much longer if we proceeded to a detailed analysis of the agreement. in short, we do not like the reform, we did not like the reform of the european commission because it was horrible. however, the agreement which parliament is going to vote on thursday seems to us to be the lesser evil.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the european parliament and the committee on the environment for the painstaking preparation of this second reading report. i am particularly grateful to mrs korhola for her contribution to the effort to implement the aarhus convention in the community institutions. it is worth noting that, following the guidelines on access to environmental information and public participation, this proposal for a regulation is the third legislative proposal to implement the aarhus convention, this time for the community institutions, and mrs korhola's contribution is valuable. this regulation was proposed in parallel with the decision to ratify the aarhus convention, which contains obligations not only for the public authorities of the member states but also for the community institutions. the provisions already in force in this area therefore needed to be supplemented. the proposal therefore covers all three pillars of the convention, namely access to environmental information, public participation and access to justice. the community became a party to the convention in may 2005, just before the second conference of the parties in almaty. at that time the first reading of the regulation had already been taken and political agreement had been reached at council level with a view to the common position. the common position improves and completes the commission's original proposal in many respects. it also incorporates, either verbatim or in substance, many of the amendments tabled by the european parliament at first reading. in particular, as regards access to environmental information, a new article 6 is added, referring to the application of the exceptions concerning access to environmental information, as proposed by an amendment of the european parliament. the common position also incorporates elements of the european parliament's amendments concerning more detailed requirements for public participation in the preparation of plans and programmes relating to the environment. as regards access to justice, the council simplified the criteria and procedures under which non-governmental organisations can apply for internal review of acts of the community institutions. it is worth noting that it is no longer necessary for these bodies to operate at community level in order to exercise this right. the commission is able to accept these changes, since the present wording retains the obligation of these bodies to have as their main objective the protection of the environment at community level. the commission could also accept changes to the provisions relating to the outcome of internal review and the possibility for non-governmental organisations to bring cases before the european court of justice. the council made these changes in order to avoid a wording which might conflict with the treaty rules on the right of appeal of individuals and associations of individuals. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, shares the council's intention in this respect, since the common position is in line with the aarhus convention, which allows the contracting parties to establish criteria for public access to justice. i hope that agreement on this proposal will be reached soon. we have already come a long way from the full application of the aarhus convention and the adoption of this regulation will demonstrate how much we want it to be applied to the community institutions.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, i would like to join mrs korhola in her position; i cannot really agree with amendments nos 22, 23 and 25. i believe that the aarhus convention, which is already being implemented in some countries, such as spain, is a victory, of course, for the possibility of transparency, training, etc. i am extremely concerned, however, that positions which depart from the common sense shown by the council and the commission's position are intended to give the ngos, as mrs korhola has said, excessive legal capacity. i believe that democracy should be symmetrical. it is not logical that ngos should have more rights than local authorities in this area. it also seems to me that the regions cannot have the specific capacity that would be given to them here. on the other hand, there is a principle of law, that of direct interest, which is a much debated topic in the history of law and which was usually applied to the family or to some problem that occurred in the territory in question. however, it seems to me that the fact that the direct interest applies to any ngo in europe means that we are entering an infinite area of law, which we would not know where it would end up. i think this can create a lot of problems, especially because, as we know, sustainable development requires direct environmental knowledge, because it is not the same case by case. the first principle, which we have mentioned many times here, is that the concept of sustainable development is comprehensive, it has to refer to a specific place and in one place you can do one thing for economic or social reasons and in another you cannot do it. the fact that ngos, often not located on the relevant site, can claim this right because of their interest in the environment seems to me to be excessive. i therefore agree with the council's position.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all i would like to point out that this report by parliament, which is intended to facilitate the work of adapting the aarhus convention, is a necessary and appropriate instrument. i therefore acknowledge the efforts of the rapporteur and the other members to adapt this convention to the mechanisms currently available in the member states and the community institutions, in order to ensure the legitimate right to information and environmental justice. in this respect, we believe that better access to information and greater public participation in decision-making will make it possible to implement such decisions more effectively and will contribute to raising public awareness of environmental problems. the convention will have to strengthen transparency, accountability and good governance in areas of public action as diverse as energy, agriculture, transport or tourism, through the recognition of a series of rights aimed at ensuring the effective participation of citizens in public decision-making processes. such information should provide sufficient knowledge to participate actively and consistently in the various administrative procedures. it should also recognise the right to pursue any administrative or judicial remedy deemed appropriate where it is considered that such rights have been infringed by public administrations. as regards the specific aspects of the report, i believe that ngos should not be subject to excessively restrictive requirements as regards access to justice, such as the requirement to work internationally and, above all, the requirement not to have been registered for more than two years for the submission of applications. i think in many cases that would be a grave injustice. on the other hand, in the interests of the universalization of justice, i think we should reject the possibility that the european investment bank can refuse access to environmental information, since the aarhus convention provides that exceptions must be interpreted restrictively and the inclusion of the term 'banking' extends this concept of confidentiality. in fact, the directive on public access to environmental information does not provide for specific rules for banks. i would like the commission to agree to these two specific points because they seem to me to be the most important. i hope that this regulation will be implemented as soon as possible, to ensure access to justice in all environmental matters.
mr president, i would like to remind you that the ten years of effort spent on the drafting of this document have been ten years of permanent pact and collaboration. this shows how effective european union policy can be, because from the very beginning, towns, local authorities and states have started to work to improve the conditions of beaches and bathing waters, both inland and on the coast. i think it is important to stress - and i will explain this to my students whenever i teach courses in the future - that this is a real example of the extent to which environmental policy is an added value for the economic system, for the well-being of citizens and even for the surplus value and increase in the value of land. a beach with clean water is a welcoming and good-quality tourist area. otherwise, we know the public won't go and will be increasingly minded. and this is the result of a policy of cooperation and the result of a mutual effort. that is why i think it is satisfactory and even very realistic to introduce the qualification of water as sufficient, because i believe that we cannot force reality. getting clean water costs a lot of money and a lot of management effort, a lot of penalties for dumping along riverbanks and a comprehensive policy. we must be aware that this effort is coming from the pockets of the citizens and from a very important scientific policy on control of discharges and that all this is not easy to achieve. i therefore welcome this and say that it shows how much the quality of the environment adds value to the economic system, to industries and even to social benefits.
the austrian presidency's programme is being presented in accordance with the agenda.
mr president, mr chancellor, six months is certainly not a sufficient period for the chancellor to be required to resolve the present european crisis at the end of his term. however, six months may be enough to set the right direction in this effort of change and rectification which the european union demands. i shall therefore simply refer to two urgent matters which, in my view, concern the european union. firstly, after listening to all of us, you can see, mr chancellor, that the european union has no problem with words, because almost all of us are asking for the same thing: more europe and the incorporation of real problems into the functioning of the european union. the problem is not a problem of words, but of attitudes. each institution has to correct its attitude many times when it deals with issues affecting europeans. the day when the european parliament examines not what the president of the european council does but what the presidents of government in the non-presiding councils do, we will undoubtedly be addressing one of the problems of the european union, which is the lack of tenacity, the lack of a permanent task on the part of all the governments, even if they do not preside over the european council. secondly, mr chancellor, in a few years' time europeans will have to identify and recognise the political role of the european union in the face of the great problems we face: energy, immigration, terrorism, growth and employment. europeans today do not know what the european union is doing on any of these issues; they do not value, criticize or judge, because they do not know what the european union is doing on these matters. it is a political task to make known what the european union and its institutions are doing in these matters. this is the second great urgency facing the union, mr chancellor.
we wish mrs. stenzel the best of luck in her new responsibilities in her country.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank ursula stenzel for her ten years of work for austria and for the austrian people here in the european parliament - far beyond party and institutional boundaries! she'll be my boss, by the way, because she's the quasi-mayor of the inner city in vienna. so i'm under your care and your citizen now. have a good trip! i should like to make a few brief comments on some of the issues raised in the debate. i thank all those who have raised the subject of enlargement and in particular the perspective of the balkans. i have been very brief because i have already had contact with almost all the groups in advance and i know that you know that this issue is a high priority for austria, partly because we are in the immediate vicinity of the balkans. there is an old joke: the balkans begin in the third district, at the race track, in the middle of vienna. second, because it affects us directly. stability can either be exported by us europeans or we can import instability. there must be no zone of instability between hungary, austria, slovenia, italy and greece. this room must not be a gray area, but a perspective. only with this perspective will the necessary reform approach and reconciliation of the various ethnic groups in bosnia, serbia and kosovo be possible in the end. everybody needs to know that. we have therefore been working on this and have now also accommodated the un representative martti ahtisaari in vienna with an office. every day, there are intense discussions here. we know that we have a task to accomplish together here. the balkans are one of europe's great success stories. the americans finally defeated milosevic militarily, but today 90% of the soldiers who are there to keep the peace are europeans. it is not the military face of the european union that we are representing here, but the face of peace in europe. everybody needs to know that. we are not only celebrating the 250th birthday of wolfgang amadeus mozart and the 150th birthday of sigmund freud, but also the 100th anniversary of the first nobel peace prize awarded to a woman, bertha von suttner. down with weapons this is a real program, right in the 21st century, also and especially with regard to iran. i spoke to mohammed elbaradei yesterday the iaea is also based in vienna . this is a matter of the utmost concern. when he said in an interview with newsweek last week that after three years of intense negotiations, inspections and checks by the inspectors, he was unable to confirm the peaceful nature of iran's nuclear disarmament programme, that is a subject that will be very much on our minds in the coming months. we have no need to make any threats here, but we must send a clear european message: iran must return to the moratorium, back to negotiations, not to unilateral measures which, in the long run, can endanger world peace. and this is the message that parliament, the council, the commission and all the commissioners - benita ferrero-waldner and javier solana - must deliver. it's the only way we'll be credible in this part of the world. i would like to make a few comments on the energy question. of course, each country goes its own way, i'm aware of that. but i have fought for every country to ultimately have its own choice of energy sources. but there are some questions that can be raised. i personally think that the road to a revival of nuclear energy is very, very dangerous. there are many unresolved issues here. the concern of the public should not be underestimated in this particular area. but at european level we can deal with the question of renewable energy. mr barroso has put forward some very good ideas here: biofuels, in which the americans are investing five times as much as the rest of europe, including the member states, combined. we must be credible in this area. we have renewable resources, we have wood, we have biomass. i think that would also be an opportunity for agriculture in the coming years and decades. we should approach this subject very honestly and very openly, without overlooking the fact that there are of course differences between member states which must be taken into account. the next item is the transeuropean networks. i have been a member of the european council for ten years now. i have even held the austrian presidency of the council once before as foreign minister. we have been talking about transeuropean networks for ten years and not a single project has been implemented so far. i want to make that very clear. we must succeed - and that is my real ambition, and i hope the commission will help us to do so - to at least lay the foundation stone for the brenner base tunnel during our presidency. if we want to get traffic off the road, we have to put it on a competitive rail infrastructure. there is no alternative. my request is that we help to make these transeuropean networks work, everything else is rhetoric. the next point i forgot in the international field is the cia question. we take this very seriously. i also say quite frankly that there must be no different standards. human rights are indivisible, and the rule of law is indivisible. i was in washington with the bertelsmann foundation when the debate broke out in the american public. we met with the deputy majority leader of the republicans there, senator bennett, and we clearly articulated the issue in exactly that way. we therefore fully support the content of the council of europe's investigations. i also ask that the member states provide the necessary information. we must not have two different standards here. hidden jails, overflights, the transfer of undesirable persons, who, of course, if suspected, must be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. but it must be done within the framework of our rule of law norms. ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly have a common path with parliament. i am very grateful for your point that we need to pay much more attention to children's rights. we are very concerned to see that there are terrible things here: child pornography being distributed worldwide via the internet, the issue of human trafficking, children being sold worldwide, far too little understanding even in the european, developed societies, of the protection of children's rights, the promotion of families, the reconciliation of work and family life - all these are issues which clearly fall mainly within national competence, but which must nevertheless be brought forward together. one issue raised by some is the rights of minorities in austria. i want to be quite frank about this. during my term of office, since 2000, we have set up croatian and hungarian village plaques in burgenland with great folk festivals and with great participation of the population, because there was a consensus. last year, a few months ago, we successfully put additional bilingual signs in slovenian and german in 20 towns as part of the celebrations of the state treaties. we're not quite there yet in some communities. i sat down with 12 mayors in 12 municipalities last friday. we are working towards a common solution. i promise that, but this is not a matter for the european parliament, but above all for us at home. i am not accused of respecting minority rights in austria any less than in other parts of europe. but i want the consensus of the political forces, and i want to do this with the people. i am also confident that this will succeed. the labour market: there is a negotiated contract with ten, and now twelve new members. ten are already in, bulgaria and romania are coming in. i am actually very confident that the new governments here will be very cooperative so that they can reach the target date of 2007. but these agreements contain transitional rules, both for the new countries and for the existing member states. i am very frank about this, and i say that this was done by mutual agreement. it is also my duty as head of the austrian government to ensure that the austrian social partners are not overburdened and that the balance between openness and protection, which has just been invoked by some speakers here in the plenary, is maintained in this case too. we are trying to help in border regions with flexible arrangements for certain areas, such as the care sector, and this has actually worked very well so far. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. here too, a certain balance is necessary between respect for and implementation of community law on the one hand and the subsidiarity clauses laid down in the treaties on the other. there are national rights which must be respected in the different jurisprudence of national legislation, national courts and the european court of justice. the court of justice has also established that the principle of proportionality is a matter of course in the german, austrian and french supreme courts. all these things must be balanced in a reasonable way, and i am sure that the european court of justice is also aware of this responsibility. i would like to conclude with the point you have made yourself, mr schulz, with mozart and freud or the magic flute, others have mentioned zeus. i am a much more modest person and i believe that six months of presidency will never change europe realistically, that is quite clear. but we can give impulses. we want to work with you to put the financial perspective into practice. we need your consent to do this, and we're going to find her. we need to think about what instruments are ideal. it was an austrian proposal that was taken up, so that we get about 10 billion extra as a research facility for the european investment bank - a major step forward, which is also co-financed by the private sector. there is some room for manoeuvre between the various conceptions of flexibility which exist - the difference is between one and about three and a half to four billion euros - and the various conceptions of flexibility which exist. we should discuss these issues in a confidential dialogue. first, of course, i'll need a warrant. this mandate will be given to austria by the other member states in a few weeks. we shall be talking to you as soon as the commission has made its specific proposals for the breakdown by heading. i am sure that in the areas of interest to you - research and competitiveness - we will certainly have more money available than in the previous period. and one thing that should not be overlooked is that the financial perspective provides for the full inclusion of the costs of bulgaria and romania in the agricultural policy. that means that 8 billion euros are included in the current financial perspective. the budget is reduced by 4% in absolute terms and an additional 8 billion is earmarked for romania and bulgaria. i believe that if we look at things realistically and practically, then we will certainly achieve something in a dialogue based on trust. i don't have a magic flute, nor a conductor's wand or a magic wand. but if i may take osmin, he did, interestingly, actually lose in the end. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the community, which is to be submitted to the council and parliament. so let us be great souls together and make a difference in europe. (applause from the centre)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, chancellor schüssel has already answered questions on the austrian presidency's programme. in conclusion, let me simply outline, in summary, how i see the evolution of this presidency. there will be two main events: the spring european council and the june european council. the first is to implement the new governance system, the new strategy for growth and jobs; the second is to take decisions on our actions for the future of europe. before that, a very important issue must be settled with the european parliament: the financial perspective for 2007-13. and you are well aware of the commission's position on this. you know how hard the commission has worked to achieve an agreement as ambitious as possible. we believe it was important to get agreement between the member states. imagine what the mood in europe would be today if we did not have at least the agreement that was possible at the european council level! that said, there is still room for manoeuvre for negotiation. my appeal and that of the commission as a whole is a very sincere appeal for realism in this negotiation. we believe that further delays could seriously jeopardise the application of the new financial perspective from 1 january 2007. if that were to happen, those who would suffer the most would be precisely the new member states or the regions of europe that need more solidarity. so we believe that there is still room for negotiation, but we must approach this negotiation with ambition and realism, and with a great sense of responsibility. if we can solve this problem, we will be in the best position to make the spring european council a great success. this is the first time we have applied the new lisbon governance system. all the member states have already submitted their national reform programmes. we will present our assessment on 25 january and i will come and present it here in front of you. i believe that the conditions are now in place to give a boost to the europe of growth and employment. but we have to be clear about this: we have priorities. chancellor schüssel highlighted some of these priorities, including research, small and medium-sized enterprises and energy, where the hampton court agenda usefully complements the lisbon agenda. but if we really want growth in europe, we really need a single market in europe. the great task today - the task of the commission and parliament - is to ensure that the single market functions in an enlarged europe. we are now twenty-five and we must remember that there are fundamental freedoms which were at the heart of the european community project: the free movement of goods and merchandise, of course, but also the free movement of capital, services and people, including workers. if we really want europe, we know that it must be much more than a market: europe is a political and a social project. this requires that fundamental freedoms be guaranteed throughout its territory, avoiding any risk of division between the old and the new member states. we are all members of this european union, which is based on the idea of solidarity. finally, the european council in june must take a decision on the future of europe. and in this connection, i think the question that mr duff has asked is very important. it is true that there are important differences, and we believe that this debate should be approached with caution and responsibility. on this basis, we believe that it is possible for the june council to draw up the broad outlines of the agenda for the future of europe, to reach a new consensus to advance our european project and to find the best opportunity to resolve the institutional questions which really need to be resolved.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the commission's vice-president mr president, i will be brief. i have said throughout the debate that i was listening to parliament, that i was waiting for the parliamentary vote and, before i tell you what i intend to do, i would like to express very briefly my regret and a wish. first of all, i regret that the procedure did not allow parliament to take a decision on the amended text. the amendments tabled by your rapporteur were likely to allay some of the fears of the various players in our ports, both companies and workers. i therefore commend the work of your committee. the commission was in a position to accept them. that's for regret. secondly, i hope that we do not lose sight of the objective of this text, which was also mentioned many times in yesterday's debate. the aim is to help european ports to respond effectively to the increase in maritime traffic and the risk of overcapacity. the efficiency of port activities increases european competitiveness and promotes growth and employment. of course, ladies and gentlemen, i will give a true and fair account to the college of commissioners of yesterday's debate and today's vote. i'll offer to take the consequences. i will also propose to him that he continue to work with all the parties concerned: states, operators, users, trade unions, in consultation with parliament, to lay the foundations for a european port policy which will provide a framework and reassurance for investors. i would like to give the most appropriate answers that european ports are looking for, both in terms of transparency of tariffs and the use of infrastructure, the use of state aid and, more generally, the integration of ports into the intermodal chain. our debate has shown the need for this whole approach. (applause from the right)
i read the text in english, as it has been discussed; it would read as follows: 'calls for a solution to the problem of the so-called caveats which impede a proper cooperation among the different national contingents in the country.'
in writing. the spanish socialist delegation welcomes the adoption of this own-initiative report, which seeks to improve the aspiration to achieve genuine sustainable development. however, i would like to point out that in the second part of amendment no 2 (paragraph 15) we decided to vote against because we believe that water protection and management policy should be based on criteria of rationality, effectiveness and efficiency and not only on the adoption of measures to reduce water intake, as this could have negative consequences of various sizes.
the next item is the report by johannes voggenhuber and andrew duff, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the reflection period: the structure, themes and context of an evaluation of the debate on european union (2005/2146 (ini)) (a6-0414/2005).
mr president, i would like to remind the commissioner and some of her colleagues that it is 20 years since spain joined the european union. it was good news for my country and probably for the union as a whole. i say this because the spanish people entered the european union 20 years ago and a little over a year ago we voted in a referendum and we voted 'yes' to the european constitution, with the same rights, duties and responsibilities as other countries, france and the netherlands, who voted 'no'. yes and no are equally valid, whether expressed in a referendum or expressed through parliament. and today the absolute majority of the union's partners have said yes to the european constitution. this report - i had the opportunity to work with its two rapporteurs, as an alternative rapporteur for the socialist group, for four months - is a balanced result, which says four things in essence: firstly, this parliament continues to regard the constitution as the best instrument for achieving a more democratic and more effective union. secondly, if it does not enter into force, the political and institutional problems of the union will not only worsen, but will persist, and further enlargements on the basis of the treaty of nice will be impossible after the accession of bulgaria and romania. thirdly, we must open up a genuine period of reflection and debate, between the institutions and with the citizens, to seek solutions to the current crisis. it is at the end of this period that we must draw the conclusions which will enable us to move forward and complete political union. and fourthly, in line with what we did in january 2005, a positive outcome of this reflection period would be the maintenance of the current text, which would only be possible with the right measures. we will then define the appropriate measures. today the political context allows us to say that there are new elements to go ahead with the constitution and to deny two issues: firstly, the assertion that the constitution is dead - the dead you kill are in good health - and, secondly, that first we must deal with unemployment, immigration or the fight against crime, forgetting that, to do so, we need to have this constitution. this is not just an issue for institutionalists. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to make a slight shift from clinical metaphors to kitchen metaphors. that's how i would invite this room to say no to that microwave-heated food. we are facing a cold, dry dish that has lost all its flavor and aroma. of course, the same ingredients could be used in another dish, perhaps adding a few spices and eliminating the most indigestible elements and ingredients. but the citizens of europe have a right to a new dish, a new dish cooked to everyone's liking and not just a reheated dish from the day before. i would like to say, with all due respect to my colleagues, that i sometimes get the impression, when i hear some of them speak, that they are too personally attached to the dead text of the constitution. i would like to see these colleagues have the courage to break free from this text which they have seen born in their arms and to have the courage to take a new step: to invent the new cuisine that europe and its citizens need.
(the president declared the common position approved as amended)
(the president continued to speak in catalan)
mr president, i hope you understand me, because i'm going to speak in an official language. i believe that languages are vehicles of communication and not of isolation. i think that this report, mr president, makes three important points. my colleagues dehaene and stubb have already said important things on this subject, but there are three points i would like to make. firstly, this constitution is the result of consensus and, as long as there is no alternative menu, this is what we have. and it is a good consensus because those who have voted 'no' in some european union country are unable to have coffee together, unable to produce an alternative text. that's the reality. the no are people who reject but do not build, do not propose anything. as long as there is no other menu on the table, i am with this menu and this parliament is with this menu. secondly, we are against the partial application of aspects of the constitution. why would you do that? for the same reason, because the constitution is the result of consensus and we do not all agree on everything, but we do agree on the totality and therefore we would not accept - and this parliament is right to say so in this report - to take this but not that. we're all for everything but cherry picking. thirdly, this parliament says in this report that there will be no further enlargements of the european union without a constitution, and that is no coincidence. we are aware that the union will not function democratically or effectively without the prescriptions laid down in the constitution. that is in article 49 of the current treaties, mr president, and i say that to the friends of the ostriches, because this parliament has to decide on any enlargement of the european union and with this report this parliament is making a very clear and very solemn commitment: there will be no enlargements without a constitution.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, if the european parliament wishes to investigate these allegations, it is of course up to the european parliament to take a decision. we are, however, aware that a number of international institutions are still investigating these allegations and we must await the results of these investigations.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the question of the barcelona conference, asked by mr medina ortega, is as follows: the euromed summit on the 10th anniversary of the barcelona process adopted a jointly agreed five-year work programme to further develop the partnership and a code of conduct on counter-terrorism, which demonstrates our shared commitment to combating terrorism in all its forms. the five-year work programme sets medium-term objectives in the areas of political and security partnership, sustainability of economic development and reform, education and socio-cultural exchange, and addresses issues related to migration, social inclusion, justice and security. the presidency considers it important that each presidency submits a report to the council detailing its plans for implementing this work programme and calls on the commission to keep the council regularly informed of the state of implementation. the barcelona agreements will enable us to advance our regional cooperation with our mediterranean partners, while at the same time continuing the european neighbourhood policy through the negotiation of further bilateral action plans. the summit produced a number of important outcomes: the approval of a governance facility to support and accompany political reforms, the confirmation of the liberalisation of trade in services and agricultural products as a common objective, the willingness to tackle illegal migration including through the conclusion of readmission agreements with the eu committing to facilitate legal movement of persons; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations policy, and in this context all migration-related issues should be addressed at a future ministerial meeting. finally, the conclusion of a code of conduct on counterterrorism is a major political success and proves that the partners in the process are willing to act together against this scourge that affects us all, despite the sensitivities in the region.
i am very grateful to the president-in-office of the council for the information he has given us. i think it is quite comprehensive and i think, above all, it has focused quite a lot on the fight against terrorism, which is the immediate objective. but, as you know and as you have also mentioned, underneath the terrorism there is a more serious problem: the whole southern shore of the mediterranean is in a situation of great underdevelopment and there is a tremendous pressure on the european union in the field of migration. the figures i have seen in the financial perspective recently approved by the council speak of a total amount of eur 800 million over a seven-year period. the european parliament is being very critical of this at the moment. does the president-in-office of the council think that the figures in the financial perspective are sufficient to solve these problems on the southern shore of the mediterranean?
mr president, commissioner, for a person or a country, ties with neighbours are of the utmost importance. relations with neighbouring countries are also important for the european union. it must be positive relations, framed by the objective of achieving a circle of peaceful, prosperous, human rights-respecting, stable countries around the union, which share our principles of democracy and the rule of law. the achievement of such a circle is necessary in the interests of the union, as the commissioner has just acknowledged. with globalisation and interdependence, it is clear that no wall can isolate the european union from its neighbours; hence the importance of an active and generous neighbourhood policy. i believe that, as mr tannock's report shows, and i certainly appreciate his work, the specific neighbourhood policies should differ fundamentally according to the neighbouring country in question. the difference should not depend on the continent to which the country belongs; otherwise we would have the impression that there is a first-level neighbourhood policy and a second-level neighbourhood policy for the non-european mediterranean neighbours. this would be a mistake, since many of these mediterranean countries have very close and longstanding relations with the union, closer and longer than those which the union has with several european countries which are also the object of the neighbourhood policy. these mediterranean countries expect, in accordance with our commitments, the closest possible relationship with the union. they also need our greater cooperation to overcome their backwardness in terms of institutional democratic development, economic and social growth, etc. but the european policy of closer neighbourliness also implies the promotion of reforms geared towards democracy, respect for human rights and the market economy. and there must also be progress on such matters as economic openness, border control, cooperation in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and illegal immigration. it is clear that progress in these areas will benefit the neighbouring countries concerned and the whole region. mr president, allow me to make one further comment. i am very sorry that at the barcelona summit last november the level of participation of our neighbours in the southern mediterranean was disappointing. i think they have missed a great opportunity to show their interest in strengthening their relations with the union. but beyond this disappointment, we must look to the future and to the strategic imperatives of the union. this calls for our giving priority attention to our neighbors, not only in their interest but also in our own.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs vlasto on her report, which i think is very comprehensive but also very clear. i would also like to thank commissioner verheugen for his presence here today and for the explanations he has given us. secondly, i would point out that it is commonplace to say that small and mediumsized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy. but just because it's a commonplace doesn't make it any less important. two thirds of all enterprises in europe are classified as 'smes'. europe has 25 million small and mediumsized enterprises which, in terms of employment, provide no less than 95 million jobs. but the aim is not just that smes should survive by living in squalor, but that smes should, on the contrary, be able to thrive and grow strongly. in this sense, we need a model in which the development of smes is not achieved solely through mergers and acquisitions, which is the traditional model, but through the growth of the small and mediumsized enterprises themselves. i would like to stress some of the points made in mrs vlasto's report. i agree with her that the report on the implementation of the european charter for small enterprises in the report on the implementation of the lisbon process may lead to a certain marginalisation of the concept of smes. i also believe that the annual bilateral dialogue with representatives of smes should be strengthened and that the participation of smes should be facilitated by using instruments adapted to their needs, such as incentives to encourage smes to enter the world of research and development. finally, i would like to mention something which the commissioner has considered in his speech: it is not possible to have strong small and mediumsized enterprises if the value of entrepreneurial activity is permanently being undermined. i therefore believe it is extremely important that, once and for all, a determined effort be made to emphasize the social value of business activity. i think it is a definitive step for the future of small and mediumsized enterprises.
the next item is the report (a6-0413/2005) by mr onesta, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amendment of the rules of procedure of the european parliament (a6-0413/2005).
i thank the rapporteur for his explanations, but i must expel him from the chamber, since that is what our current rules of procedure, which are still in force, require.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, my group will clearly support this report as it stands after the adoption of several amendments, and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the text that we have finally been able to agree on. it has been explained very well by those who have gone before me and it is impossible for me not to repeat some of the same ideas. basically, this text rationalizes the current regime - which is already a lot - codifies but rationalizes, sets out much more clearly what the functions of each are and achieves, above all, a balance between two extremes. the first is to consider that this is a parliament and not a school, not a church and - take it as a joke, mr president - not an opera house either. this has to have its vibrancy, its movement, its people. but the rules of procedure must be maintained and parliament must be allowed to maintain the dignity of its office at all times. it is intolerable - and i will cite an example which particularly shocked me, if i may say so - to interrupt a solemn session with a president, head of state, in his last speech, probably one of his last political actions in europe and in his political career. i am referring to the speech by president ciampi in this chamber. that is intolerable. and other such acts are absolutely intolerable. that is what should be sanctioned, much more than showing a certain easter day, a certain little pamphlet, which in no way disturbs the work of the house. so on the one hand, yes to the liveliness, the energy, the contrast of ideas, which sometimes manifests itself in shouts and other reactions that, to those of us who come from latin parliaments, even seem to be lacking, because simultaneous interpretation makes it difficult for laughter to break out or for a comment to be reacted to, but not to the point of losing the dignity of the role we are entrusted with and of what each of us represents, which is much more than what each of us is. that's why we're here even at this hour. i think that this balance is well reflected in the report which will be put to the vote tomorrow. there are sanctions which are proportionate, there are guarantees for those who may be sanctioned, there are powers of the president which are balanced by a right of appeal to the bureau. i think that all of this is a step forward. i wish this text the best that can be wished for a text of this nature: that it does not have to be applied. i hope it stays there, that practically everyone forgets it exists and that it goes so unnoticed that it is unnecessary to have to apply it. that will be the greatest triumph derived from having clear rules regarding the internal disciplinary regime of this house.
mr president, i am speaking out of parliamentary courtesy: firstly, because you are here and i think that is something to be thanked for, and secondly, because my group was the one who asked for this debate to take place. this debate, in accordance with our rules of procedure, could not have taken place because the vote in committee was overwhelmingly in favour of mr onesta's report, but my group asked for it precisely because my group likes transparency. i am glad that i asked for this, despite the late hour, because i think it was a model debate, because those who have spoken before me have expressed perfectly what this reform of the rules of procedure means. and, again, using parliamentary courtesy and considering the time it is, i shall not speak any further and we can all go home.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the statement by the commission on the situation in the middle east.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i believe that the middle east is between substantial change, both on the palestinian side and on the israeli side, and hope. but this hope can be quickly dashed because the facts on the ground do not point to much optimism. in fact, precisely in the heart of the conflict, in jerusalem, the situation is very worrying. here in parliament we are concerned that the commission decided not to publish a report on the situation in jerusalem, which was a consensus report of all the union services working there. i believe that the situation in jerusalem can be a major obstacle to the creation of a viable and credible palestinian state and become a banner for the most extremist and violent forces on both sides, who want to block progress towards peace. i also believe that the commission should take steps to overcome the snail's pace and all the tortuous and bureaucratic ways, to improve the quality of life of the palestinians within the plans of mr wolfensohn. as you have seen, some progress has been made in gaza, but in reality, on all projects, whether they relate to the port, the passage of goods, trade or the free movement of people, progress has been minimal. the palestinian authority has very little on its plate. the people who really want peace, who want a state with only military power, not with illegal militias, which are incompatible with peace on the palestinian side, have little argument if we do not move more quickly to improve the quality of life of the palestinians and if we do not put some brakes on the expansion of feelings on the ground when in jerusalem we see, in some cases, the replacement of the idea of greater israel by the idea of greater jerusalem. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. mr president, may i thank the honourable members for a very broad and interesting debate. the middle east is a subject on which one could speak for hours, but i shall take up the most important points. firstly, mr mcmillan-scott raised the issue of funding a chamber for the palestinian council. we will have to await the outcome of the elections and see what government will be formed – i shall come back to the question of hamas shortly. then we will have to consult the palestinians themselves to find out their demands and to see where we can support them. it will depend on that common vision whether we can support such a chamber. i do not rule it out completely, but it is really up to the palestinians to ask for that. secondly, you also asked how we could help the democratisation process. i think our neighbourhood policy and the action plan would be the best basis for such further democratisation, for the rule of law, which is one of the major issues and one on which we insist very strongly. for a year now we have had much better relations with the israelis; on the one hand because prime minister sharon kept his word on the withdrawal from gaza – which was a step forward – and, on the other hand, because of the action plan, in which the israelis are highly interested. i had a lengthy talk with prime minister olmert on that subject. they are very interested in doing something. on your third question, i would say that we are very preoccupied about the sentence on mr ayman nour, the leader of the main opposition party in egypt. the commission was very supportive of a troika statement issued by the european union immediately after the sentence. we will follow up the case in the council meeting of foreign ministers on 30 january and then in our current negotiations on the action plan with egypt – negotiations which, it must be said, are not easy. to return to hamas, i know one of the crucial questions is what the government will look like after the elections. the polls show a possible share of the vote of between 30 and 40% for hamas. accordingly, i have very clearly stated that we will work with any government that will seek peace by peaceful means and will also respect the principles incorporated in our two major agreements. one is the interim association agreement. as i have already said, there is democracy, the rule of law, the basic principles that we all hold up. secondly there is the action plan, in which there is a clear commitment to the roadmap. president abbas himself made it very clear that the acceptance of the oslo accords and the roadmap forms the basis for participation in the future government. i know that the israeli government is very clear and adamant about certain things it demands of a future palestinian government. we will of course work with both parties on these issues, because we know how sensitive and crucial they are in order to make progress on those issues on which we all agree: the free movement of people and goods for the palestinians, where i have announced the possibility of going forward with the airport; where we are starting the procurement procedures in order to make it possible to get more access for people and goods. at the same time, it is also important to see how a government can be formed in israel. i agree with my cypriot colleague, mr kasoulides, that an interesting situation is also arising on the israeli side. with prime minister sharon incapacitated at the moment, acting prime minister olmet has taken over in a pragmatic, pro-european way – that is clearly what he stated – but in a way in which he can hold up the security question, which is the overriding question for every prime minister in israel. hopefully, things will go in the right direction. i do not want to interfere in any of these processes; we are still two months ahead of the israeli elections. the important thing is that there is a leadership in the future that is able, capable and willing to go on with that. i agree with those who say that, as very clearly stated in the quartet, we also have to speak out very clearly on the question of settlements, on the separation barrier. the council’s report – it was a council decision, by the way – has not been publicised, but it has already been covered in the press, so everybody knows what it contains. finally, the important thing for us will be to work very closely with both sides because, as many others have said, the palestine-israeli conflict greatly influences the stability of the whole region. the situation in iraq and the upcoming difficult situation with iran do not help to improve the stability of the region. (applause)
thank you very much, madam commissioner. the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 142) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
i would like to inform you that the conference of presidents has just approved its proposals on the composition of the commission of inquiry into the equitable life assurance society crisis and the temporary commission on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners. these proposals have been sent to all members by e-mail and are now on parliament's website. the deadline for tabling amendments is 10.30 a.m. this morning and the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
the next item is the report by mrs edite estrela, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the future of the lisbon strategy from a gender perspective (2004/2219 (ini)) (a6-0402/2005).
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and the motion for a resolution on the future of the lisbon strategy, with regard to the gender perspective. it is a very useful contribution to our common agenda for growth and jobs. you clearly and very appropriately highlight what gender equality policy can bring to the lisbon strategy. the persistence of large gaps between women and men is indeed a matter of great concern. it is essential to continue our efforts and to consolidate the integration of the gender dimension in all policies, gender mainstreaming. the need to tackle gender disparities in employment or training and, in particular, the pay gap and its causes, must be at the heart of our concerns. it is important to address structural inequalities between men and women in order to ensure equal participation of all in economic and social life. this requires better implementation of community law. but it is important to tackle all the factors that cause these disparities, such as the predominance of women in lower-paid sectors, the persistence of stereotypes, especially in education and training, or, as you have very well demonstrated, the difficulty of reconciling work and private life. issues of work-life balance are a key element of equality issues. they must cover all possible aspects: childcare and dependent persons, adjustment of working time, new forms of work, etc. and men must be fully involved in the conciliation measures. the duty of good governance which we have, in particular through good coordination of the different policies, through partnership between institutions and with the relevant actors, and through statistical and analytical monitoring of our policies, is also underlined. the commission fully shares these views, as reflected in the annual report on equality between women and men presented since 2004 at the spring summit. all the above are identified as priorities for action in the future. the commission's commitment to gender equality will also be reflected in the commission's forthcoming roadmap for gender equality. it will in particular highlight the aspect of governance, the importance of which you yourself have very usefully stressed. the commission also ensures continuous monitoring of equality policy through analyses and studies, as well as the development of specific statistics. studies are regularly carried out by experts. these studies are published. in 2005, a study focused on the reconciliation of work and private life. finally, the commission analyses the member states' national reform programmes from a gender perspective in order to make an important contribution to the 'employment' chapter of the annual monitoring report.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the lisbon strategy, which was merged with the sustainable development strategy in gothenburg, aims to achieve economic growth, social cohesion and poverty reduction in the union and, to this end, it establishes that the three complementary pillars on which it must be based are economic, social and environmental. all three are equally important, commissioner. given that social inclusion within the lisbon strategy specifically concerns women, i welcome and congratulate mrs estrela on her report, because it is an excellent opportunity to remind the council and the commission of the need to impregnate all union policies with a transversal dimension in terms of the gender perspective. as the report explicitly states, there is a need for better coordination between the policy of an integrated approach to equality between women and men on the one hand and the lisbon strategy on the other, in order to systematically take into account the gender perspective in the achievement of the ambitious lisbon objectives, in particular in the broad economic policy guidelines, the employment guidelines, environmental policy - see reach directive - , internal market policy - see bolkenstein services directive - and finally in the policies for the integration of immigrants. on the other hand, the link between the beijing platform for action and the lisbon strategy is also obvious, so the need to harness the productive potential of european workers is key to delivering on both agendas. finally, as has also been said, we support the amendment tabled by mrs gröner and mrs estrela, which calls on the commission to make the reconciliation of work and private life one of its priorities in the roadmap for equality between men and women, which is currently under discussion, and to review, in collaboration with the member states, the social partners and other actors, directive 96/34/ec as regards its suitability and effectiveness. such review should focus on how to improve the situation of women and men in order to achieve work-life balance for both women and men, which would be a key factor in achieving gender equality in all aspects of life.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mrs estrela on her report and add one more point to what has been said so far, which i largely agree with. ladies and gentlemen, if, as pointed out in paragraph 23 of the report, we are talking about achieving greater coordination between gender equality policies and the lisbon strategy, so that the gender perspective is taken more into account in the achievement of the objectives set for the european union by the year 2000, i would like to draw attention to the still very low presence of women in the scientific and technological sphere, and also in the important decision-making positions in our business fabric. if we are to achieve the lisbon objectives of a knowledge-based, dynamic and competitive european economy, science, technology and innovation play a key role in this, and the participation of women in these fields, at all levels, is far from equal to that of men. i am not only talking about fairness, but also about efficiency. women make up about half the population, and using only half the brains is neither smart nor effective. from the studies prior to the implementation of the current seventh framework programme for r & d, we know that europe needs 750 000 new properly trained researchers. it is time to take the necessary measures to ensure that, without sacrificing excellence, these new jobs are equally accessible to men and women. most studies have also highlighted the lack of gender-disaggregated data in science and technology. this is an additional difficulty in undertaking effective policies that address the root causes of the problem. the european institute for gender equality should play an important role and address this gap as a matter of priority. we ask the commission, in collaboration with the member states, to take the necessary steps to move forward in solving this problem, which is fundamental if the lisbon strategy is to be the success we all want.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the handicapped person's guideline serves as a reference point for the integration of disability issues into development policy. i should like to thank the honourable member for the specific and obviously very interesting light he has shed on this very serious problem. this note provides a series of practical guidelines and advice, so it is not a question of actually implementing it as such but rather of ensuring that it is widely disseminated to the staff concerned. this was widely disseminated to the general directorates of the relex family and to the delegations. in addition, a training session on disability was organised in september 2005. the commission also disseminated its note to the outside world. it has been published as a brochure in english, french, spanish and portuguese and is available on the internet. the integration of disability into development policy is also covered by point 97 of the european consensus on development which you approved a few weeks ago. this item deals with the prevention of social exclusion and the fight against all forms of discrimination, including the situation of disabled people. to this end, it is stated that the community will promote social dialogue and social protection. the national level is the most appropriate for the implementation of this dimension. the prevention of exclusion and the fight against discrimination will therefore be carried out on request and on the basis of a dialogue with the partner countries. it is therefore in this context and at this level that any programmes concerning disabled people will be developed. the commission is of course supporting improvements in health and education outcomes through projects and, increasingly, through budget support. political dialogue is an integral part of this support and it is in the framework of this political dialogue that the commission can respond to the demands raised in this debate. it is in accordance with this principle of ownership that the commission will try to encourage the integration of disability or disabled people into the development strategies of our partner countries. we will try to convince governments of the importance of dealing effectively with these issues. it is obvious that we will be throwing our weight into the battle. i fully appreciate - and this is why i am very pleased about this speech - the dramatic nature of the situation of the disabled, which is even more dramatic in the developing countries and especially in the poorest categories, because i am a very regular witness to these human tragedies. i must admit that i too have witnessed the lack of interest or even the exclusion of disabled people in some of the most deprived societies. i am therefore fully convinced of the validity of your wish, your attention and your concern and i will certainly devote all the commission's energy to answering this question in particular.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, this debate shows that disability is a significant factor which must be taken into account in the design of the european union's development cooperation policies. it is clear that disability and poverty are closely linked, just as disability is closely linked to illness and lack of health care. we already knew this in europe, where disability is much more present in the marginal sectors of society and, moreover, disabled people suffer much more from their condition in those sectors than in other more affluent ones. what we are now seeing is that, in the same way, disability affects the developing world much more than our industrialized countries and that the disabled in the south suffer from their condition much more than those in the developed north. the resolution we are going to adopt identifies this situation and calls for the european union's responsibility to combat it. the commission will receive a recommendation from parliament to take account of the phenomenon of disability in all its activities, both in the european strategy for the development of africa and in the european consensus on development. this resolution should also help to raise awareness of this problem among our governments and our public opinion. but, having said all that and having committed ourselves in this area as the socialist group, i think it is appropriate to highlight the action of some developing countries which are leading an admirable mobilization in their solidarity effort, fighting disability which is most closely linked to poverty, lack of medical care and underdevelopment itself. cuba is an indisputable example: it has not been content with a policy aimed at preventing and alleviating disabilities in its own society, but has for several years been developing a powerful solidarity action with other countries linked to this same phenomenon. there is the so-called operation milagro, which has made it possible in 2005, with resources mainly contributed by venezuela, for more than 208 000 latin american and caribbean people who were blind to regain their sight after being operated on free of charge in cuba. newly elected president of bolivia, evo morales, signed a series of agreements in havana. one of them envisages that more than half a million blind bolivians can be treated first on the island and then in several ophthalmological clinics that will be set up in bolivia by specialists and with technology from cuba. similar projects are underway in venezuela and other latin american countries and talks are underway with south africa to explore similar initiatives. these actions should be valued in the european parliament, as they are in the countries concerned, far more than good words and well-intentioned resolutions.
in writing. to explain my vote against amendments nos 73, 18/rev. and 18 to the fruteau reports on the common organization of the market in sugar, common provisions applicable within the framework of the cap, and the scheme for the restructuring of sugar in the ec, respectively. i have followed this dossier with the greatest attention, given the social and economic repercussions that a bad reform could have for many european regions, many of them spanish. i am perfectly aware of the arguments put forward by both the commissioner and the chairman of the ep's committee on agriculture in defence of the possibility that the council could adopt a political agreement before the parliamentary procedure had been completed. the hong kong conference was not going to wait for us, nor was the planting campaign. this was stated by president daul in a letter to commissioner fisher-boel. the reasons were weighty, and so we understood. i cannot therefore support this totally unjustified criticism of the council, not in this dossier, with my vote today. for all these reasons, and because the agreement reached is the closest thing we have to the position of the agri committee, i have voted against these three amendments.
the debate on disability and development is now resumed, as ordered.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank mr bowis and the various speakers for really putting the finger on an element that is too often forgotten and which represents particularly serious aspects of the human tragedies that poverty brings. the education of children with disabilities, for example, is an integral part of the education strategies in many developing countries such as uganda or ethiopia. this is systematically addressed in the framework of the programming and implementation dialogue between the commission and the governments of the partner countries. i must say that the discussion we had today is very timely. from next week until april i shall be visiting all the regions corresponding to the regional organisations. so i will go and debate, discuss, define, listen to both individual countries and regional organisations to try - as i promised in the general development policy declaration - to help our partners develop or propose coherent programmes that are truly convergent. this is not easy, because everyone wants to be in his own square. i must say, mr bowis, that i fully share your view: to this day, in poor countries where there are many unfortunates, the disabled are a separate category. for example, i have discovered real tragedies, the extent of which is unimaginable, in the drc where the thinking society hunts down "child witches". these are children who are called "witch children" simply because they are street children, who live alone, and who are truly hunted like animals. it's something awful! i have also begun political dialogue with the drc and with some local associations on programmes which will be financed to combat this phenomenon. i saw, i met these kids. it's absolutely abominable, you can't describe it. not only do they suffer from physical disability, but sometimes even mental disability. so, with the road map, the guidelines and the motion for a resolution which you will no doubt adopt, i promise you that in all the seminars and bilateral meetings i will have in each country, i will systematically address this question. i will ask in the country strategy paper, the country strategy paper, to propose programmes and projects that directly affect these children and disabled people. i think that this is a very good point and i thank you for bringing this matter to my attention because in the heat of the moment certain issues are overlooked and although it is true that the proposals are to be made by the partner states, we must also make our own suggestions. our partners are often focusing on problems which they consider to be of priority, but they are neglecting the marginal, the neglected, with all the tragic consequences that this entails. so, as i come back from these working visits on the country strategy paper, the aim of which is to come up with a joint programming proposal for the member states and the commission, so as to be more efficient and more consistent in defining our development programme, i suggest that you make a report. i shall report to parliament at the beginning of april on the proposals or projects we have undertaken and i shall take stock with you of the programme and the progress made. i think i can offer no better: i promise to use your motion for a resolution as a speaking note and then you will judge whether we have made any significant progress. i promise to be systematic in my approach and to report to you objectively. i promise to use all my powers of persuasion to urge the partner countries to make this dramatic issue an essential element of their social, educational and cultural policies. i know of some cultural projects for disabled groups that have allowed young people to express themselves through art. there are a whole range of possibilities and i can assure you that my plea is absolutely not circumstantial. i have been very aware, thanks to you, of this problem to which we usually pay too little attention. i hope that in april i will be able to show you that the work of parliament and the initiatives you have taken have not fallen on deaf ears: your proposal will receive the full attention it deserves because i am convinced that this is a just cause.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate this afternoon.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on peru: extradition and trial of former president alberto fujimori (doc.
mr president, i am the co-author, as the panel indicates, of a proposal, which we have signed by several groups, in support of the extradition from chile to peru of the fugitive former dictator, fujimori, for reasons of defending human rights, of fighting against impunity and, also, to help strengthen democracy in peru. the evidence, the evidence and the documentation, which has been provided not only by the peruvian government and judicial authorities but also by international human rights organizations, is so overwhelming in terms of the murders, torture, corruption and abuse of power by former president fujimori, who, during ten years of authoritarian rule, many of which were dictatorial, oppressed the peruvian people, that i believe that this extradition will take place, especially given the enormous prestige of the chilean judiciary. however, the fact that an institution such as the european parliament is supporting this process will also undoubtedly help to create an international and binational climate between the two countries, whose relations are not easy, in the right direction. we have therefore contributed to supporting this resolution, and i am doing so now with these words and with my vote.
author. mr president, it is important to understand that the resolution which the european parliament is going to adopt this afternoon is not directed against anyone. on the contrary, the chilean government and the judiciary have acted in an exemplary manner. the government of peru has fully complied with its obligations by requesting the extradition of a fugitive from justice to answer to the court of justice for the many pending cases. we have just witnessed an example of democratic maturity in chile, where the opposition candidate has sportingly admitted his defeat and has personally come to congratulate the president-elect. it should therefore not surprise us that chile, after a model transition, has become a benchmark of progress, growth and a benchmark of stability and democratic normality. the european union, too, has expressed its solidarity, and this parliament in particular, with the cause of democratic consolidation in chile. i myself had the privilege of leading a delegation of meps who were present at the presidential election in 2000. that is why, on the basis of a request from the competent authorities in peru, i ask you, commissioner, to send an election observation mission to the forthcoming presidential elections in peru to show our solidarity with the cause of democratic consolidation in that country. mr president, nothing is more logical in this context than the resolution which the european parliament is going to adopt this afternoon, the purpose of which is simply to emphasize forcefully once again that in a state governed by the rule of law, legal rules are only conceived of as qualified by the obligation to comply with them and that in a state governed by the rule of law, too, mr president, no one can and should be above the law.
author. mr president, dictators are gradually falling and democrats are coming to power in latin america. i am particularly pleased that the capacities of progressive latin american women are beginning to be recognized, and that they are being democratically elevated to the heads of state. good luck to you, president bachelet. the challenge now is for these democrats to take up the fight against impunity and to strive courageously to bring the truth to light, but above all to bring about justice, in their respective countries. the arrest of fujimori in chile, as in his day the arrest of pinochet in london, is a clear sign that progress towards this justice is not only necessary, but also possible. it is clear to everyone that under the fujimori regime there were numerous human rights violations and that the regime was a very bad example, if not the redundant example, of institutionalized and widespread corruption. therefore, the extradition of fujimori to peru, where he should be tried with guarantees, is desirable, but not sufficient. the european union, in line with its firm commitment to the fight against impunity, must recognise the important work of the organisations of victims of the fujimori dictatorship and human rights defenders and support them in their work. it is therefore desirable, for example, to support the initiative of the national coordinator for human rights of 11 january 2006, inviting the presidential candidates to sign an agreement on concrete measures to support the enforcement of human rights, including the implementation of the recommendations of the truth and reconciliation commission and the comprehensive plan of reparations for the victims of the internal armed conflict, thus strengthening the high-level multisectoral commission (hlmc).
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the european parliament for giving me the opportunity to take part in the debate on a possible resolution on the extradition procedure for former president fujimori in peru. peru has made a courageous exercise in analysing the situation of unprecedented political violence that the country experienced between 1980 and 2000. the comisión de la verdad y reconciliación nacional was created during the transitional government of valentín paniagua and confirmed by president toledo. the european union and its institutions have supported the work of this committee from the outset, and this support has been reflected in particular in the financial support granted from the community budget. the european union and the european parliament expressed their support for the work of the committee and for the implementation of its recommendations. currently, the european initiative for democracy and human rights is supporting such implementation with a programme that has just been launched with the defensoría del pueblo. it is in this context that peru is currently preparing for the presidential elections in april 2006. the international community attaches great importance to the holding of these elections in a climate of transparency, stability and calm, and to the continuation of the ongoing process of democratic consolidation. as you know, the european union has made the defence of human rights and democracy the cornerstone of its foreign policy in general, and in relation to latin america in particular. the fight against impunity is of course an essential part of this. the commission commends the chilean and peruvian governments for their cooperation in the detention of mr fujimori by the chilean authorities, and we of course encourage the two governments to continue to cooperate in this regard. in this context, the commission can only express its confidence in the judicial systems of the two countries concerned. the commission is confident that the extradition request procedure initiated by peru will be handled by chile in full compliance with the applicable legislation and will guarantee a solution in full respect of fundamental rights, in full compliance with international laws and standards.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate this afternoon.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on egypt: violence against sudanese refugees.
on behalf of the pse group. i will not repeat the arguments put forward by the other authors of this motion for a resolution, but i would like to stress the importance of this resolution, which is the result of a very serious event: the death of 27 people - officially, but probably, as other speakers have said, a much higher number - who were peacefully gathering outside the office of the high commissioner for refugees in cairo. these people of sudanese origin - sudanese immigrants who asked for papers and for assistance as refugees - were subjected to an excessive, savage burden, which provoked this tragedy and this extreme violence that today calls for an in-depth, serious, exhaustive, transparent and independent investigation, not only to demand sanctions or civil, criminal or administrative liability, but also to prevent such situations from occurring in egypt in the future, because the flow of sudanese will continue to arrive, given the immigration from the south to the north, as is also happening in the area near my country, from countries to the south of morocco, morocco and spain. the defence of the principle of human rights is universal, whether in morocco, spain, egypt or elsewhere, much more, as some speakers have said, in a country which welcomes the conditions of neighbourhood with the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission considers it essential that all signatories to the geneva convention on the status of refugees apply its provisions. for this reason, it shares the concerns expressed by the european parliament delegations regarding the tragic outcome of the forced evacuation of sudanese migrants and refugees in cairo and the imprisonment of a large number of them. the commission supports the initiative to ask the egyptian authorities to release all asylum seekers still behind bars. after the recent release of 250 refugees, it is not clear whether there are still women, children or refugees from the darfur region in prisons. all prisoners who are not charged with criminal offences should obviously be released. we also support the call for the suspension of the deportation of sudanese asylum seekers and insist on strict respect for the principle of non-refoulement. the commission also supports the request to the egyptian authorities to establish a public institution in line with international standards to deal with asylum applications. in the context of actions financed under the programme of the budget line on cooperation with third countries in the field of migration, the commission has been financing, since 2004, a project of more than eur 1 million through the united nations high commissioner for refugees, with the aim of strengthening the protection of asylum seekers and refugees in egypt. one of the project's objectives is to support the creation of a unit within the egyptian government responsible for asylum issues. in this respect, the commission was informed that the negotiations between the unhcr and the egyptian government were unsuccessful. the commission wishes the egyptian authorities to engage in the activities envisaged by the project as soon as possible. as far as the responsibility of the unhcr is concerned, i for one refuse to endorse the criticisms made by one of the speakers in this connection. i know that it is extremely difficult for unhcr officials to deal with issues of this kind. i have a lot of contacts with unhcr people and i can tell you that the work of these officials is extremely difficult. they can only meet the standards imposed on them in often extremely delicate contexts, because in order to help refugees they must maintain correct, or at least positive, relations with the various governments. so i think the criticism is a bit excessive. i do not claim to judge what has been said, but it is my premature opinion and, above all, these accusations would require verification. in the context of the neighbourhood policy, the commission, with the support of the presidency and the council secretariat, is negotiating an action plan containing a proposal to start a dialogue on asylum issues. negotiations are under way.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate this afternoon.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on cambodia: political repression.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i agree with the comments made by the previous speakers, but especially with those made by mrs geringer de oedenberg, a member of my group and the author of one of the resolutions we are going to vote on. the cambodian case is indeed a case of recent, tragic history, of flagrant violations of human rights and, in the past, of tremendously violent wars. it is understandable that many colleagues are discouraged to see that things are not getting better and that we are dealing with this issue again and again here, but that is not the reason why we should not bring it up again when events such as the recent ones occur, the repression of human rights defenders, of radio companies, of teachers' unions, of activists, of journalists, of trade unionists from different areas, of former parliamentarians, etc. only strong and determined action by the european union, the commission and this parliament towards cambodia can bring about a reduction or disappearance of such actions. there are five points i will not mention, but i would particularly like to remind cambodia of the action that the donor community can and does take and of the human rights clause in the eu-cambodia cooperation agreement. it is also important to send a delegation to cambodia to assess the situation. and finally, i would like to stress the recognition of the refugee status of the khmer people coming from vietnam. i am not going to go into the arguments, mr president, because of the lack of time, but i will repeat what my colleagues have said before.
member of the commission. mr president, the current political situation in cambodia remains of serious concern. since the lifting of parliamentary immunity for mr sam rainsy, the leader of the cambodian opposition sam rainsy party, and two other members of the national assembly in february last year, the political situation has deteriorated considerably. the recent arrest of mr kem sokha, director of the cambodian centre for human rights, and other human rights defenders constitutes the latest chapter in this depressing story. it is sadly ironic that these latest arrests relate to events which took place on human rights day, when a number of organisations were peacefully celebrating and trying to uphold the principles of human rights and democracy. the commission strongly welcomes the recent release on bail of mr sokha and four other individuals but would have wished the cambodian authorities to have gone a step further and dropped the charges altogether. the commission believes that the weakening of the opposition through the politicised use of the judiciary threatens to disrupt the still-developing democratic process in cambodia. moreover, the targeting of human rights organisations through a series of arrests on criminal – not civil – charges which are out of proportion with the alleged crimes is creating a climate of fear for human rights defenders in the country. the commission and eu member states have agreed to a number of measures to respond to the situation. following the issuing of a strong eu declaration on the subject, the eu intends to raise these issues directly with the prime minister at the first opportunity. at the same time, the commission and member states will work even more closely with the human rights organisations which have been targeted in order to support their work. as recommended by parliament in its last resolution on cambodia, the commission is currently considering whether to propose the establishment of a working group on cooperation in the areas of institution-building, administrative reform, governance and human rights in order constructively to engage the cambodian authorities on these issues. finally, in the forthcoming donor meeting in phnom penh in march, a strong message will be passed to the cambodian authorities by the eu and the donor community as a whole that freedom of expression and other basic human rights must be upheld in the interest of all cambodia’s citizens. i would like to assure this house that the commission, through its delegation in phnom penh, and together with the missions of eu member states in cambodia, will continue to monitor the situation very closely. the international community, especially the eu which had such a vital role in the establishment of the new cambodia, should ensure that the political situation does not deteriorate further and should support the strengthening and deepening of cambodia’s democracy. i agree, of course, with the honourable members of the european parliament that the events in question are very serious and deserve our full attention. the commission, together with the eu member states, is exploring the possibility of undertaking further measures beyond the ones i have just mentioned. however, i do not believe that at this point the ec-cambodia cooperation agreement should be suspended. this would put our political dialogue on hold and interrupt our development programmes to the detriment of the poor people in cambodia.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a few moments.
the vote will take place today at 12 noon. (for the results of the votes and other details on the votes: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 19 january 2006.
ladies and gentlemen, before we begin our plenary session, i think that circumstances require the presidency to make a short statement on the two tragic events that have occurred in two countries of the european union. as you know, on 19 january a slovak army plane crashed, killing 42 servicemen returning from a nato peacekeeping mission in kosovo. this reminds me of other tragic events connected with the presence of spanish military personnel in afghanistan. this time it was slovaks. and on 28 january, in katowice, the roof of an exhibition hall collapsed, killing several dozen people, injuring a hundred and we still don't know how many are missing. the polish people are moved by this tragedy and all the other peoples of europe with them. i have expressed our deepest sympathy and the european parliament's strongest solidarity with the victims and their families. the slovak and polish flags are flown at half-mast in our parliament in mourning. i have written to the heads of state of both countries on behalf of all of you to express our condolences. and now i ask you to pay tribute to these victims with a minute of silence. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
is there any comment? i call mrs frassoni to the floor.
all right, this is how it's gonna be. (the order of business is thus established.)
the following item is the joint debate on the common foreign and security policy on the following items: the statement by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the prospects for the common foreign policy for 2006; and the report by elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the main aspects and basic choices of the cfsp, including its financial implications for the general budget of the european communities - 2004 (2005/2134 (ini)) (a6-0389/2005). before i give the floor to the speakers, i would like to thank the work of mrs de keyser, head of the european union's election observers in palestine, and mr mcmillan-scott, who led the delegation of our 27 parliamentary observers. we will certainly have the opportunity to hear their testimony during the debate, but i would like to stress right away the important role played by our members in providing objective testimony to the vitality of the electoral process in the palestinian territories. i also think that this is a good opportunity to hope that circumstances will not prevent president mahmoud abbas from accepting the standing invitation from the european parliament to attend when he sees fit.
i assume that all speakers are aware that there is a point on our agenda which is specifically devoted to the analysis of the situation in the middle east, the result of the elections in palestine and the publication or not of this report to which mr wurtz has referred. you are the ones who have wanted to organise the debate by dividing it up in this way. i think they are aware that they are clearly de facto altering the agenda and entering another of the following items.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. i would like to mention a few points which the council took as its guiding principle at its meeting on monday. first of all, and i would like to take this opportunity to thank mrs de keyser and all the other members who have been involved in the election observation, the elections were, as has been generally stated, a fair one. i believe they were a clear democratic expression of the will of the people. there's nothing to shake about. the presidency and virtually all the foreign ministers of the member states of the european union reacted immediately. they have reacted independently of each other in a way that is essentially the same principle. i would also like to refer to the statements made by the middle east quartet on 26-30 january, which make it clear that the international community continues to regard the principle of non-violence, the recognition of israel's right to exist and the respect of all existing mutual obligations as essential to a lasting and peaceful solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. it was and is particularly important that the statements made by the council, the statements made by the member states of the european union and those of our partners in the quartet were virtually identical. the quartet, as well as the european union, expect a future palestinian government to make a clear commitment to these principles, which i have mentioned, and stress that international support for the new palestinian authority will also be closely linked to respect for these principles. israel and the palestinian authority are reminded of their respective commitments under the roadmap. the council has essentially confirmed this line of the quartet. the council also expects the newly elected palestinian legislative council to support a government committed to these principles, namely a peaceful and negotiated solution to the conflict with israel based on existing agreements and the roadmap, the rule of law, reforms and sound financial management. on this basis, the european union is ready to continue to support the economic development and democratic state­making of the palestinians. we must not make hasty decisions at this stage but must make it clear that the european union - like the other partners who are also contributing - is prepared to continue this support if certain conditions are met. i should now like to say a few words on the question of east jerusalem, which was actually the original reason for this debate. the debate before us has clearly raised the expectation that the european union should be balanced, that a coherent policy should be pursued in the middle east, which should not be guided solely by the interests of israel or solely by those of palestine, but that there should be a balance. the european union remains concerned about israeli activities in and around east jerusalem, including continued settlement activity and the construction of the separation barrier and the demolition of palestinian homes. these activities are in breach of international law, endanger a final settlement of the jerusalem question and threaten to make impossible the solution based on the coexistence of two viable states. against this background, the council has mandated relevant council institutions to prepare a detailed eu analysis on east jerusalem, based on eu missions in jerusalem and ramallah. in view of the changed situation, particularly in the run-up to the upcoming knesset elections in israel, the council decided on 12 december to contact senior representatives of the israeli government on this matter in order to raise the european union's concerns, rather than publish the analysis. in the meantime, two demarches have taken place. the european union's troika made a speech at the israeli foreign ministry on 19 december and the presidency made a speech to the main israeli parties on 23 december last year. the european union welcomes the decision of israel to allow part of the voting in east jerusalem and thus contribute to the successful holding of the elections.
member of the commission. mr president, as we mentioned in the previous debate, we are indeed faced with a new reality. on monday, the eu foreign ministers and the quartet met to discuss our reaction to the entry of hamas into the palestinian national political arena, and the implications for our assistance to the palestinian authority. let me bear three elements in mind. the first are our principles, which should be absolutely clear. we supported these elections by providing financial support of 18.5 million eur. in addition, we have heard about 240 election observers under mrs de keyser’s great leadership. we also demonstrated our commitment to building democratic institutions. i think this is clearly a principled position. should we now abandon this position today because we do not like the result of the elections? i think that would also clearly be a mistake. on the contrary, we should call for all to respect the outcome of a democratic election. when i visited gaza, i clearly said that we were ready to work with a government that seeks peace by peaceful means. as the quartet reiterated, that means cooperation, a clear commitment to non-violence, a recognition of israel and the acceptance of previous commitments including the roadmap and the oslo agreement. secondly, the responsibilities: the ball is now in the camp of the palestinian leaders. it is their responsibility to behave like partners and to meet the criteria set by the international community. it is not yet clear how hamas, under its change and reform platform, will exercise the responsibilities that a new palestinian government will need to assume. this will take time to become apparent. in both these discussions, i have advocated a clear message from the international community as to what we expect. i have also said that the european commission stands ready to work with any government that is really seeking peace by peaceful means. however, we are mindful of the economic and humanitarian needs of the palestinian people, which are indeed considerable. we are also mindful of the legitimate palestinian aspirations for statehood. we must bear in mind that donor funding is crucial in alleviating the plight of ordinary palestinians and in preventing the vicious cycle of poverty and extremism. but we are also mindful of our own commitment to a two-state solution and to israel’s security needs. therefore, first and foremost, we expect future members of a palestinian government to commit to these three principles. this applies to the eu-palestinian interim association agreement. this clearly states that freedom of democracy, the rule of law and human rights have to be respected. in addition, the neighbourhood action plan also clearly provides that the roadmap has to be the path to peace. while the conduct of hamas, as an organisation, will continue to be the subject of close scrutiny, the new palestinian government must in the first instance be judged on its actions, including the provision of security and stability. the stabilisation of public finances is a major and immediate challenge. i am ready to be constructive in reacting to the fiscal problems of the palestinian authority – especially now for the interim government and for the caretaker government – by easing their liquidity problems. but others, too, must play their role. this includes israel, which has been called upon to continue to transfer customs revenues to the palestinian authority. i, as well as other quartet members, will also personally speak to the israelis about this issue. the role of the palestinians themselves, will also be crucial. the world bank is sending a mission to see what it can do and how the palestinian authority could meet the benchmarks, maybe retrenching the budget. they have to find a possibility of lifting the suspension on world bank trust fund payments. usd 35 million are still lying there. they have not been disbursed because they could not be disbursed. i hope i can count on the support of parliament to find a short-term solution. however, it will also be important for the new government to get essential reforms back on track. this should be done in the same spirit as when we worked with the palestinian authority in the past. in the meantime, the commission intends to continue those aid programmes which provide for the basic needs of the palestinians, including the infrastructure facility, food aid and humanitarian and refugee assistance. in closing let me say that the peace process is – as we all know – at a very critical juncture. the year 2005 was dominated by unilateral israeli actions and palestinian institutional paralysis. the international community must now provide a tangible perspective of progress, using our efforts on both sides, with the israelis and with the palestinian authority. in this context, i agree, we have to strengthen mahmoud abbas and his authority in order to provide stability and demonstrate that the negotiations will bring positive results. it is for this reason that i would like to underline the importance of avoiding all unilateral actions which threaten to prejudice final status negotiations, including terrorist attacks, settlement expansions and the routing of the separation barrier. now, therefore, we have to work together very closely: the days and months ahead will be absolutely crucial in determining stability in the middle east, as well as our own stability.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, elections are like a picture. in fact, they are like an x-ray of a society at a precise moment in time. these elections are a call for realism for all of us and a call for an end to hypocrisy in the international community. millions of palestinians are desperate. they have nothing to lose and they vote for those who promise any change, any reform, and an end to corruption. we speak too much about the middle east and too little about the real situation of men, women, children and elderly people who, along with their families, are desperate. we must respect this will. we must deliver a message of respect to this new majority. it must, however, be combined with a message pointing out that our support is conditional upon the end of violence, violent resistance and terrorism. but we must respect the will of the people. let us not pretend we will keep showing the same movie and keep the same script, but simply change one of the characters. that would be a recipe for failure. we are faced with a new scenario that requires new proposals, a new commitment and new pressures on both sides. the current situation has arisen precisely because we have not done this. there must be new pressure on both sides of the conflict. we must search for peace, but we must never forget that we are talking about real people.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i believe that the european union's mediating role is needed now more than ever. now, more than ever, we cannot abandon the area, we cannot abandon the palestinian people, and at the same time we should learn from this. what have we learned from our intervention in the area and our aid to the palestinian people? what have we learned from years of proclaiming that the solution was elections, democracy, which was a step and a condition for peace, when, now, we see that the elections themselves have become a problem, and not a solution? i have not heard any self-criticism from the council or the commission about what we have done wrong, after billions of euros in investments. i think this victory for hamas reflects a situation where israeli policy has come to generate a self-fulfilling prophecy. for years they have said: there is no palestinian partner for peace. they've finally, apparently, made it true. the european union must now make it clear that if hamas wants to continue, it must accept the rules of the game and the agreements already reached by the palestinian government, recognize israel and disband its militias. and at the same time, we have to work very hard to open up a horizon of peace. one of the fundamental reasons for the victory of hamas is that there is no hope, no hope of a final settlement in the middle east. moreover, year by year, the quality of life of the palestinians has continued to deteriorate. the quartet's commitments on the ground to improve the welfare of the palestinians have progressed at a snail's pace, very slowly, and the winding roads and obstacles have not been overcome convincingly. i think we have to mediate and work as never before to open this horizon of peace.
madam president, although the recent results of the palestinian elections are not exactly encouraging, i think that one of the biggest mistakes that the european union in general and this parliament in particular could make would be to jump to conclusions. what i think we can say without any misunderstanding is that the presence of the eu election observation mission is a success that should be noted on the european commission's scoreboard and that, as commissioner ferrero-waldner has said, it enhances its visibility and contributes to the consolidation of democracy throughout the world. that is why we must congratulate the commission and also our colleagues edward mcmillan-scott and véronique de keyser and the other members of this house who have accompanied them. madam president, i think it would be premature to conclude that the faltering middle east peace process would be buried by the results of these elections or that these elections are the epitaph of the oslo agreements. i think we should give a little more time to time and see how the pieces of the board move. in particular, despite the mistakes made, we must take into account the president of the palestinian national authority as a valid interlocutor, wait for the new government to be formed, without forgetting - as mrs de keyser said - that 75% of the citizens who voted for this political group do not want the destruction of the state of israel, and finally, madam president, we must assess the impact of this electoral process on the elections in israel. but sooner or later, commissioner, regardless of the urgencies of the short term, the european union will have to decide on one fundamental question: whether the immense needs - as you have said - of the palestinian people are compatible with the existence and inclusion on the european union's list of terrorist organisations of hamas, whose founding convention calls for the liquidation and destruction of the state of israel. in this respect, madam president, the european union cannot act with a double standard: either we renounce violence as a means of political action and terror or we will have to renounce action and the help of the european union.
madam president, the electoral victory of hamas is certainly not good news for the democrats, for the progressives and certainly not for the people on the left, but that victory has come in a clean election, and we must recognize that. we must therefore welcome the fact that hamas is in the political game, which is already a step forward. and to make it even more politically relevant, we must be able to integrate it fully into the relations between the palestinian authority and the european union. i would remind you that the first time, perhaps, that a representative of hamas elected in these elections will meet with the european union will be in the framework of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly which will take place on 26 and 27 march. the new members elected in israel will be coming to that place after the israeli elections. let us therefore all contribute, in this common place, to a dialogue and a democratic updating of hamas that will benefit everyone.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the council welcomes the european parliament's continued interest in improving the situation in cuba and we will not relent in our joint efforts to bring about a peaceful transition. the common position on cuba adopted in december 1996 remains in force. it states: the european union shall pursue the objective of promoting a process of transition to a pluralist democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as a sustainable recovery and improvement of the living standards of the cuban people in its relations with cuba. the chances of a peaceful transition would be best if the current regime itself initiated or allowed such a process. it is not the policy of the european union to try to bring about change by means of coercive measures which would only increase the economic hardship of the cuban people. in order to promote peaceful change in cuba, the european union has engaged in a dialogue with the cuban authorities and all sectors of cuban society. the cuban authorities are regularly reminded of their fundamental responsibility for human rights, in particular freedom of expression and association. political measures are useless if they are not effective on the ground. the council has therefore changed some of the modalities of its policy so that it can have a real impact, particularly with regard to the intensification of dialogue with the peaceful opposition. these close contacts have been very well received by the peaceful opposition. in line with the council conclusions of 31 january 2005, the luxembourg and the united kingdom presidencies, and in particular the european union representation in havana, have given new impetus to relations with the opposition and independent sectors, focusing, inter alia, on key medium-term issues of the transition. this includes, inter alia, enhancing dialogue with key members of the peaceful opposition, in particular with regard to their concrete plans for the future, and other means of supporting independent and civil society organisations. at the same time, the council has clearly condemned unacceptable behaviour on the part of the cuban authorities towards european politicians and visitors. the presidency has raised the issue of access to ministries in havana and has pointed out to the cuban government that it cannot expect any dialogue if it denies access to the european union's embassies and refuses to recognise or speak to eu interlocutors. the council also reaffirmed its readiness to continue a constructive dialogue with the cuban authorities on the basis of reciprocity and non-discrimination, including on the issue of visas for visits by representatives of the respective governments. the presidency of the european union expressed its regret in a public statement that the cuban authorities had prevented the so-called 'ladies in white' (damas de blanco) from travelling to strasbourg to receive the european parliament's 2005 sakharov prize for freedom of thought. cases like this, as well as the government's refusal to allow osvaldo payá to travel to participate in the ngo forum on freedom of expression in december, make it clear that the cuban authorities are violating the right to freedom of movement for their own citizens, as enshrined in article 13 of the universal declaration of human rights. the council regretted that no further progress had been made in the release of political prisoners. it condemned the imprisonment last summer of other members of the peaceful opposition and the measures taken by the cuban authorities to restrict freedom of expression, assembly and the press. the council maintains its call on cuba to release all political prisoners. the eu intervened in the situation of prisoners who had started a hunger strike to protest their conditions of detention. in this context, i would also like to recall, finally, the active and continuous role played by the eu, with the strong support of the european parliament, in the united nations commission on human rights. last year the european union tabled a resolution on cuba.
the european union is not bound by an association or cooperation agreement with cuba. this is not the case for a cause attributable to the european union, nor to many members of this parliament, who have endeavoured to preserve the capacity for dialogue and dialogue with the authorities and the people of cuba. the regrettable events, such as the ban on the ladies in white attending the european parliament or the increase in repression, as stated in the text of the resolution which this parliament will adopt tomorrow, against independent journalists, as recently denounced by reporters without borders, peaceful human rights activists, clearly show the systematic disregard for the most basic rights on the island. the resolution therefore says that these events undermine the aspirations to improve relations between the european union and cuba, the main objective of the changes introduced by the council in january 2005 in the common position, and asks the council, mr president-in-office, to act accordingly. and i remind you, mr president-in-office, that when you approved the lifting of the measures accompanying the council's common position, you called for the immediate and unconditional release of the people who were detained, and now the situation of those people has worsened. andrei sakharov said, madam president, that often the voices that count the most are the ones that are not heard. and i believe, madam president, that this parliament has once again had to take the floor precisely to make the cause of freedom its own and to defend and make known in this house, which represents the citizens of the european union, those people who are fighting in cuba for their freedom and for their dignity.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president-in-office of the council, our group welcomes the fact that the context in which this debate on cuba is taking place reasonably ensures a fairly broad commitment to a motion for a resolution. we have always believed that there is a broad basis in this parliament and in the institutions of the union for agreement and for a good direction in relations with cuba. as a group, our position is very clear: firstly, in the present context we can only confirm that the cuban authorities have not given the expected signals in relation to the improvement of human rights in the country. secondly, we are faced with the impossibility of awarding the sakharov prize to the ladies in white and we must therefore urge the cuban authorities to allow this group to visit europe at the invitation of the european parliament. at the same time, we believe that the president of parliament should be instructed to take all possible steps to ensure that the prize is actually awarded. we believe, however, that in the present climate of relations the prospects for progress are better today than under the council's previous policy, which led to a dead end, as has been - to say the least - the policy of sanctions and embargo for decades. we are committed to maintaining the council's current policy with two objectives: firstly, to maintain firmly the demand for human rights in cuba, the release of prisoners of conscience and of the peaceful opposition and respect for democratic freedoms and, secondly, to maintain and increase the relationship and dialogue with all the political and social sectors in cuba which are involved or interested in the relationship with europe and in the evolution of the country, the inevitable changes that we are going to see in cuba in the near future.
on behalf of the green group, i agree that there are many alarms that the cuban regime continues to apply a policy of repression against dissenting opinions, arbitrary imprisonment of opposition groups, constant harassment of anyone who expresses a position contrary to the governmental one. the repression of groups which have been stigmatised by the regime, such as homosexuals and certain intellectuals, is also worrying. the specific case before us, the regime's ban on the ladies in white leaving the country to receive the sakharov prize, is another example of this worrying situation. however, as has already been said, the policy of blockade and isolationism to which various western powers have subjected cuba for decades has only served to strengthen the hard-line sectors of the regime. i therefore welcome the decision of the council of the european union in june 2005 to offer cuba a new forum for political dialogue. the aim was, among other things, to begin to prepare the ground for what many of us hope will be an imminent transition to democracy. those of us who have endured a dictatorship know how difficult it is to build a democracy, especially when those who should be your allies from the outside turn their backs on you. in this sense, it is encouraging to see how more and more community, university and scientific groups are appearing, both in rural and urban environments, under the roof of churches or in educational and social centres; groups that did not exist before and whose work can make a valuable contribution to political development in cuba. it is time for the cuban regime to understand that its future does not lie in maintaining the status quo, but in facing in a serious and credible way the transition which the cuban people themselves are demanding above all. the european union must therefore make it very clear that our intention is to help cuba to enter modernity by way of democracy, and that is why we must not fail to call for the release of all those sentenced to long prison terms for peaceful opposition to the regime.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, to express my opposition to the joint initiative to be voted on tomorrow. this initiative is based, as every pore of the document distills it, on a position which is exceptional, a position which the european union has long maintained. it is the only country in the world where the european union maintains a state of emergency, there is no other case. and i think it's not fair and it doesn't affect anything. it is clear that this position will be voted on tomorrow and will have no influence whatsoever. i demand an end to this state of emergency. that cuba, in the european union, be treated the same as any other country in the world. that we maintain a position that allows for a common agenda for debate, where all issues are seen. of course, first of all, we must demand the lifting of the american blockade of the island of cuba. of course, everything that the request for the extradition of the terrorist posada carriles means and, in addition, to include in the ibero-american summit everything that relates to what has already been discussed at that ibero-american summit between the european union and cuba. so, you see, cuba has many flaws, but it is an example of south/south cooperation. cuban society is an example in relation to all public services, being a poor country. and so i think that the european union should not go along with the dictates of the united states department of state, it should not. and so i naturally call for an independent position to resolve the lifting of the state of emergency between the european union and cuba.
i thank my group for giving me time to speak, knowing that i do not agree with their position. i shall not vote for the resolution, which i consider to be unbalanced, useless and detrimental to the image of the european union in the developing world. the fact that we have 20 members in the chamber shows the priority that this debate has for our colleagues. the socialist proposal seemed to me to be more correct, but then fundamental considerations such as the blockade by the united states and guantánamo, the most scandalous violation of human rights on the island, have been lost. the imbalance is exacerbated by the lack of recognition of cuba's achievements and, in particular, the efforts it has made in cooperation with countries in the caribbean, latin america, africa and even asia. last week, when we talked about disability and development, we pointed out that in 2005, 208,000 blind people in those countries had been operated on free of charge in cuba. that doesn't seem to matter here, but it does, and a lot, among people who have regained their sight and among their peoples. the fact that there are more than 20,000 cuban doctors and almost as many teachers and sports instructors working in the same field of southern solidarity shows what many here deny or keep silent, but their sectarian stance, which is reflected in resolutions such as this one, damages the image of the european union before the countries and peoples of the south who feel respect and gratitude for cuba. finally, this resolution will only confirm the cuban authorities in their conviction that the european union is not an independent interlocutor, but merely an appendage of the bush administration's interests and strategies, and they will not move a finger in the direction that many of us would like to see things moving in their country; that is, this resolution is also fundamentally useless in that sense except for those in the house whose aim is simply to keep cuba in a state of exception, discriminatory and different from that given to other countries with similar regimes. the most regrettable thing is that, with these approaches, europe is becoming less and less relevant in much of the international scene. i therefore repeat that i shall not vote for the resolution and i hope that my colleagues will at least listen to my arguments, whatever their vote tomorrow may be; if it is like mine, all the better.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i thank you for this debate, i have listened attentively and have noted many points for myself and for the council. it seems to me that we are called upon to continue actively defending the values that the european union stands for: defending human rights, standing up for fundamental freedoms: freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. i also noted that it is desirable that we continue to actively support the peaceful opposition and that we work for the release of prisoners. it is a fact, however, that we must admit that our resources are limited if cuba does not show a minimum of goodwill. and frankly, the policy of confrontation and embargo, as it has sometimes been used in the past, has not brought the desired success either. we therefore believe that we should continue our policy of critical dialogue, engagement and encouragement of reform.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the national management declarations responsibility of the member states for the implementation of the budget of the european union, by szabolcs fazakas, terence wynn and jan mulder, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control (o-0102/2005 b6-0347/2005).
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am grateful for this opportunity to explain to you the council's position on this important question, namely the statement of assurance to be given by the european court of auditors on the implementation of the community budget, and may i begin by stating the obvious fact that the administration of the community budget is complex and, as such, unique in the world. it covers a wide range of administrative levels, from the various commission services to the central, regional and local administrations of the member states and the individual final recipients. it is in the interest of all concerned to contribute to sound budgetary management, including the budgetary and discharge authorities. like the european parliament, we in the council have repeatedly expressed our disappointment with the state of affairs, particularly in connection with the discharge procedure. after extensive consultation in the council and in the council bodies, the council adopted conclusions on the commission communication on the roadmap on 8 november, and i can assure you that this was not an easy task. this document summarises the conclusions of a two-day meeting of a group of experts from all member states, representing the respective ministries of finance, the operational authorities and the audit authorities, organised jointly with the commission. this preparatory work provided a good basis for in-depth discussions in the council bodies and proved useful in reaching agreement in the form of the council conclusions mentioned above. i assume you have already read this document, so i will just highlight the most important points. i would like to conclude by addressing the issue of declarations to be made by the individual states, although i know that this is a particularly important question for you. i'm asking you to be patient. in its conclusions, the council underlines that a number of efforts have already been made to improve the efficiency of budgetary management: the introduction of internal audits, stricter rules on the accountability of the commission's authorising officer, the implementation of the integrated administration and control system, to name a few. in view of the importance of the structural funds in the budget of the european union, i would also like to draw attention to the work done to set up payment agencies and to further develop internal and ex post controls in the field of structural operations. one of the first points mentioned in the council conclusions is the balance of responsibilities between the commission and the member states in the implementation of the budget of the european union, in accordance with the provisions of the treaty, which must be taken into account when improving the controls and guarantees in this area. the council also considered it essential that this improvement builds on existing control structures and aims to improve the cost-benefit ratio and simplify the systems. the council considers that an effective integrated internal control framework, based on the principles set out in the court's opinion on the so-called single audit, provides assurance as to the risk of error in the underlying operations. one of the main points in the council conclusions concerns the improvement of control systems. member states and the commission should optimise the effectiveness, economy and efficiency of the current control systems. without prejudice to the specific features of administrative provisions in the various member states, the council shall promote the pursuit of general principles and common elements for internal controls. the council considered that member states should continue to carry out and improve controls in cooperation with the commission on funds managed under shared responsibility. this should take into account the responsibilities under the treaty, the financial regulation and the corresponding provisions of the sectoral regulations. for example, some member states are prepared to take measures under the confidence pact as provided for in the context of structural fund programmes. the council is the assembly of the member states, and i speak for all the member states, not just for the council itself. as you know, the commission services have published a first analysis of the shortcomings of the internal control framework of the commission services in relation to the control principles set out in the court of auditors' proposal for an internal control framework of the community. in the context of shared management, the council asked the commission to assess the implementation of the applicable rules on sampling of forwards, paying agencies and the activities of settlement bodies. the council conclusions suggest that the commission, in cooperation with the member states, should assess the current level of sectoral and regional controls and the relevance of existing declarations. i now come to the subject of audit. when establishing the internal control framework, a distinction must be made between internal control and external audit. the ec treaty alone is the basis for any cooperation between independent supreme audit authorities, as these authorities are not part of the internal control framework. this is important. some control authorities are ready to discuss with the court how they can make a greater contribution. i can assure you that all the member states have agreed to do their utmost to reduce the risk of errors and to strengthen controls. the commission and the member states should ensure that their approach to the integrated internal control framework is based on common control standards and should discuss together how to implement those standards most effectively. the council calls on the member states to discuss bilaterally with the court of auditors the results of its das audits in order to eliminate systemic problems. it called on the commission to report to the council on solutions to problems faced by several member states. finally, and this is particularly important, the court has proposed that the european parliament and the council should reach a common understanding of the acceptable risks of the underlying operations. the council's conclusions attach great importance to this uniform understanding. the council looks forward to further steps in this respect. i come now to a subject of the greatest importance to us all: simplification. there is a need for simplification in terms of harmonisation of control principles, legislation and control requirements in relation to the rules to be adopted for the 2007-2013 programming period. the council considers that simplification should never lead to an increase in the current administrative and control costs. it must, on the contrary, lead to the elimination of multiple internal controls by different parties involved in the control framework. finally, i would like to turn to the very important issue of declarations in the context of the decentralised management of eu funds. the council considers the existing declarations at operational level to be a means of providing assurance to the commission and ultimately to the court of auditors. they must be useful and cost-effective and can be taken into account when it comes to achieving a positive das. care must be taken not to jeopardise the existing balance between the commission and the member states. i'm aware that you expected more in this regard. but you will agree with me that the text as a whole can be regarded as a substantial and significant advance. in order to continue to take this matter forward, the council has agreed to examine, at the time of the 2004 discharge, the action plan drawn up by the commission to remedy the shortcomings of the current control framework. the council conclusions of 8 november will of course be followed by further steps in 2006. the achievement of a positive das is, as i have said, an important and very ambitious goal which cannot be achieved overnight. i think that these council conclusions are an important step towards that goal. they also confirm that the council will continue to support the commission in its efforts to contribute actively to financial management at all levels. some of you may feel that the council should have gone a step further. i can understand that. but remember that the presidency was bound to the necessary unanimity on this matter. thank you for your attention.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, already during the entire period of the work of this commission we have a common concern to get a positive das. it has not been possible. this is a very technical issue with a very bad political outcome, which seems to give good reason to whoever wants to say that money in european union has been spent improperly. of course, this is completely untrue. we have worked together to find solutions and ways of joining all our efforts to provide enough evidence for the court of auditors to give an assurance that the transactions are reliable. we do not deny that member states are doing a lot of work to secure the proper control systems. i have just come from one member state where i met the national audit authority, and huge work has been done to secure the proper use of national and european money where there is shared management. the commission does not deny its responsibility for implementing the budget, including in shared management. but we have a missing link: how to make all the results of the control and audit work readable finally for the highest level, for the court of auditors. so, the commission strongly supported the proposal to the council made by the rapporteur mr wynn and the committee on budgetary control to have a political declaration, a signature on the national level, which, in our view, could cover this missing link. this proposal was rejected last november and now we have to think about what to do next, because the problem will continue to exist. the commission adopted an action plan on 17 january and has sent it to the council and parliament. the action plan designates 16 concrete actions at all levels and in all sectors. action 5 specifically addresses the topic for this evening’s debate and reads: ‘member states should designate a national coordinating body per policy area which can (…) provide all stakeholders with an overview of the assurance available in respect of community actions under shared and indirect management in their member state. the cooperation of member states is necessary when ensuring such a provision in forthcoming legislation, and steering its implementation via implementing rules and guidance’. maybe this can be a solution or a least an intermediary solution that can link together the technical levels, the paying agencies and the audits and provide good evidence for overall discharge.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, mr winkler, we expected more from you, we expected more from the austrian presidency in this respect. it is not the first time that this parliament has seen the council fall short of what we are asking for. we europeans now have a serious problem: this parliament wanted us to spend 1.14% in the financial perspective, but the president-in-office, mr blair, has reduced it to 1.04%. it seems to mean that the community policies, which are so effective and have done so much for the progress of europe, are badly managed by the european union and that the best thing to do is to cut the budget because things are not going well. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the reason for this is that for 10 years the court of auditors has said that it does not take the european accounts seriously. but what european accounts? if 80% of the community budget is managed, it is spent in the member states, if only one fifth is managed from brussels. what's the matter, man? that some national authorities, who want to pay less and that community policies have less petrol, now that we are in a europe of 25 and about to be in a europe of 27, tell us 'you are spending badly'. what is the committee on budgetary control asking for? we ask that it be said where spending is bad; that if spending is bad in a member state, it be said that this member state is spending badly, that it is not brussels; that the problems have arisen here or there. and to that end, it would help us a great deal if the member states endorsed the way in which they spend community money. i believe that community money is spent better and more efficiently in brussels than in the average of the member states. however, the system places the blame for mismanagement on brussels, not the member states. i know that the council has to defend the good name of the member states. we ask that there be co-responsibility, approval by whatever authority you wish, be it the minister of finance, be it the court that deems it appropriate, that it guarantees that the accounts in each member state are managed as the european citizens want them to be, so that the vice-president kallas or the parliament's committee on budgetary control are not always to blame; that the blame be shared and that those responsible be brought to light. we therefore ask you to approve how each member state spends the money of european citizens.
mr titford, i call to order. you have twice accused the european institutions of crimes. you have said 'fraud' and 'corruption' twice. i would ask you to bear in mind in future that in this house the attribution of crimes to persons or institutions must be accompanied by evidence. otherwise, it is an abuse of the freedom of speech of a member of parliament.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have listened carefully and will of course report back to the council on the views expressed here. but i want to repeat something else: i represent the council and the member states here, so the opinions expressed by the presidency of the council here are the unanimous decisions of the council. i'm sorry if i've disappointed some of you. i can't say any more at this stage. i can however reiterate - and i hope you will take note - that we are committed to examining the action plan drawn up by the commission in the context of the 2004 discharge. i also confirm that the council will continue to support the commission in its efforts to contribute actively to financial management at all levels. the council will be fully aware of its shared responsibility and has no intention of denying it. we will continue to work with the commission on solutions which can be accepted by all, including you in this chamber. i am afraid that i cannot say more at this relatively early stage of the austrian presidency.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, thank you very much for this debate. this question seems very technical. it is very difficult to explain to the larger public what is actually behind this declaration of assurance. however, we must work to find solutions which do not bring the very negative political outcome of having to say that the money is not under control. i hope, therefore, that the council and member states will consider this new basis for merging their work. this is already done at the level of paying agencies and other implementing authorities. let us try to provide a single integrated assurance, which also offers positive evidence to the court of auditors. let us try to find solutions. as i mentioned earlier, the commission is fully aware of the areas in the commission itself in which the court of auditors has found a lot of mistakes in internal policies and in research and development. the action plan includes 16 actions, only one of which is directly aimed at the member states. however, i hope that this cooperation will bear fruit. i would like to make a factual remark concerning the statement that the court of auditors has rejected our accounts. this is not true. during my term of office, the court of auditors has never rejected our accounts. it cannot always assure the legality and regularity of underlying transactions, as provided in the treaty. this means that it cannot claim that millions of transactions are properly checked. this is true. it is also very important when we meet journalists to describe the complexity of the picture. this is a huge exercise. the budget discharge includes millions of details. a better understanding of the picture will certainly help.
yes, mr wynn, you will have the answers in writing. mr titford i have full respect for any political opinion in this chamber. that is why i did not interrupt you and let you finish your speech. my remark was just to remind you that the language we use in the chamber should express our opinions and our political positions. it was just a friendly remark from me as i chair this sitting that we should try to use language and words that are not unduly offensive or disrespectful. apart from that, you have full freedom of expression here, mr titford. para cerrar el debate se ha presentado una propuesta de resolución véase el acta. de conformidad con el apartado 5 del artículo 108 del reglamento. se cierra el debate. la votación tendrá lugar mañana a las 11.00 horas.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on management measures applicable to fishery resources in the mediterranean sea, by philippe morillon, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-0095/2005 b6-0346/2005).
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, they want to know whether the european community is complying with its commitments in international fora, since the proposal for a council regulation on measures for the sustainable management of fishery resources in the mediterranean has not yet been adopted by the council. in february 2005, the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, to which the community is a contracting party, adopted binding recommendations to improve conservation and management measures for the mediterranean. these recommendations were incorporated in the presidency's compromise proposal submitted to the agriculture and fisheries council at its meeting on 19 and 20 september last. however, the presidency had to note at that time that, due to the lack of support that emerged during the discussions, it was impossible for the council to reach political agreement on the proposal for a regulation containing technical measures for the mediterranean sea, including the abovementioned recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. the council, in close consultation with the commission, is continuing its discussions on the proposal for measures for the mediterranean and the presidency intends to put the matter on the agenda for the council meeting in april this year.
i am very aware of the difficulties of this proposal, mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on fisheries, and it is not for nothing that parliament has played a key role in unblocking it after its presentation just over two and a half years ago, even finding a procedure which has allowed a compromise between the commission and parliament to overcome the difficulties of the proposal and which has even had the support of most of the sector and national administrations. it is incomprehensible that, in a situation of such consensus, the council should be delaying since april last year the adoption of what is probably the most important package of technical measures to be adopted at this time. the consequences of this irresponsibility are manifold: the mediterranean is the only community area which is still far from being associated with the minimum concepts of responsible fishing and sustainable development, when in other community waters much more drastic action is already being taken in its name. it is shameful that the mediterranean fishermen themselves, in their vast majority, have understood better than the council the urgent need to regulate this fishery, despite the price they will have to pay. the credibility of the council is therefore completely called into question. we are also in danger of failing to meet our international obligations within the two regional fisheries organisations operating in the mediterranean. and, mr president, how can we propose to third countries more restrictive management measures when we are not able to implement them in our own territory? i therefore ask you, mr president-in-office of the council, in addition to telling us about the timetable, a question to which you have not yet answered, to explain to this parliament why, without a blocking minority, the council is unable to take a decision on this matter.
on behalf of the pse group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind, and that the fisheries sector is not left behind. although the objectives of the common fisheries policy are the same in the mediterranean as in other community waters, it seems that conservation policy in the mediterranean sea has developed very differently, and today we find that the only management measures applicable in this sea can only be described as absolutely obsolete. this lack of regulation of the mediterranean sea has led to a very clear discrimination between european fishermen fishing in the mediterranean and european fishermen fishing in other community waters. i think, mr president, and i am not far wrong, that it is our duty to ensure that the fisheries regulations in the mediterranean are developed to the same degree as in other areas of the community. and in this respect we are concerned, and this is very obvious, about the council's passivity, because this lack of interest in this sea seems to us totally inexplicable. we are talking about a sea, a region of enormous importance, with complexities, it is true, very complex - geopolitical, among others - but i understand that for the council this should be more of a stimulus than a brake. it is even more inexplicable, given what mrs fraga has just said, that this report was adopted thanks to the close cooperation - and this parliament approved it - between the committee on fisheries and the dg fisheries. i therefore ask you to give it the final push and to consider what has been achieved very important, and to refrain from taking any steps backwards or shortcuts which might dilute the content of this report.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would just like to say in conclusion that the council is well aware of the importance of this question. it is also not right that the council is inactive or even uninterested in the situation of fish stocks and fisheries in the mediterranean. for reasons which the presidency has no comment to make, there has been no agreement so far. the austrian presidency has now taken up this dossier and will actively seek a solution. as i said, it is intended that this question will be discussed in the council in april of this year.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 8.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, i fully agree with the report and the rapporteur's remarks. violence against women is certainly the most widespread violation of human rights in the world today. it is a form of violence that knows no geographical barriers or age limits for the victims, nor does it make any distinction of class, cultural or family background; it is the most widespread crime in the world, and the european commission and the institutions of the european union have an institutional and moral duty to react firmly against it. i particularly appreciate this report because it deals with the main issues that the european institutions have to deal with. the commission has taken a number of initiatives to help member states implement effective prevention and response policies to eradicate violence against women. we are developing legal instruments to encourage close cooperation between the member states in policing, in defining crimes, which often do not coincide, and of course in strengthening the instruments to prosecute and eradicate these crimes from civil society, as well as to ensure more effective protection for victims of violence. most of the actions mentioned in the report fall within the framework of the daphne project, which we all know: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the daphne programme, which the commission intends to continue and develop further, covers all forms of violence, including domestic violence, which is one of the most serious cases, which unfortunately escapes the judicial statistics because in the vast majority of cases the victims do not report the incidents of violence that take place within the family walls. the actions in question also include a tenacious fight against female genital mutilation, a hideous practice against which we must react firmly, and so-called 'honour crimes', which we should call 'crimes of dishonor': it's hard to talk about "honor" crimes when you hit a woman for that kind of reason. the report calls for the collection of data and statistics, as reliable statistics are one of the key prerequisites for making the most effective decisions at european level. the commission is working on this aspect by launching, in cooperation with eurostat, a european system of statistics on crime and criminal justice: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that by june 2006 we will be able to publish for the first time a series of european statistics on crime and the judicial response to it, which will of course include a chapter on violence against women. the commission has financed a number of initiatives on female genital mutilation, also in the framework of the daphne project, which have produced positive results. i can also add that, in the european area of action on immigration and asylum, the directive on minimum standards for the granting of refugee status defines acts of sexual violence against women as sufficient grounds for obtaining refugee status. i can also assure the honourable member that the commission considers female genital mutilation, although not explicitly mentioned in the text of the directive in question, to be acts of violence for sexual purposes, which are therefore among the grounds which, in my view, justify the granting of refugee status. i have used this example, mr president, to stress the need to address the issue of violence against women at european level and from every possible perspective: the european union is committed to the development of a common approach to the problem of trafficking in human beings, to migration policies, to equal opportunities and thus to the need for non-discrimination and more generally to use justice, labour and social policies as instruments for a concrete response. i feel institutionally, politically and morally bound to these objectives, which will therefore be the concrete priorities of the work of the coming months.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i am very sad to have to hold this debate on violence against women, because it means that this is an active issue, a living issue. the report by mrs carlshamre, whom i congratulate on her work, reminds us, among other things, that violence against women is a scourge that knows no nationality, religion, social status or economic level; on the contrary, as has also been said, it is a universal phenomenon, linked to the inequalities existing in our societies in the distribution of power and gender roles. that is why the response must be forceful, here in europe and in other countries where, as in mexico or guatemala, the situation has reached such levels that even 'feminicides' are being spoken of. the time for rhetoric and condemnation, however, is long gone. the time for action is now, to take action on behalf of victims, to implement proactive and preventive strategies and to establish effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions. but for these measures to be effective, they must be provided with the necessary human and economic resources. a few days ago we celebrated the first anniversary of the law on gender violence in spain. this is an opportunity to insist, as the carlshamre report does, that violence against women must be regarded as a clear violation of the most fundamental human rights and that, in addition to reactive measures, holistic programmes must be established which seriously address the issue of the distribution of roles in our society and, in particular, the perception still held by many men that women are merely objects at their disposal and that, as such, they have the right to beat or abuse them, if not to kill them. in short, the real problem, i'm afraid, is still in the heads of many men, and that's where action is needed.
the report we are debating today, mr president, gives us the opportunity to make a strong appeal to the european institutions and the member states to combat a reality: violence against women for the simple fact of being women. we cannot remain indifferent to this situation; we have an obligation to put in place all the instruments necessary to put an end to this social scourge. violence against women is a violation of human rights, of fundamental rights such as freedom, equality, life and non-discrimination. we must demand that the member states tighten up penalties and develop comprehensive laws to respond to this reality. in this respect, spain is a clear example for the whole of europe, with the law adopted last year against gender-based violence, which, although it is true that it will not be able to end this situation overnight, means a clear commitment to fight it decisively with all the necessary instruments. we cannot ignore the fact that there is now a greater awareness of this, thanks to the efforts made by women's organizations in their fight against all forms of gender-based violence. we can say that it is no longer an invisible crime, but that it produces a collective rejection. aspects as important as the protection of victims must be accompanied by other measures, such as specific programmes for access to employment or social housing, in order to address this reality from a comprehensive point of view, taking into account aspects relating to education, legal aid or the health sector, and without forgetting that these situations of violence also affect, in many cases, children within their family environment. there are no excuses for tackling violence against women in a determined and committed way, because a society cannot move forward when the rights of such an important part of it are violated: women. we are talking about a serious social problem which will require all our efforts to put an end to it. today's is another step on the road that still lies ahead. let's do everything possible and impossible to get to the end.
things are not so bad: we have been talking about this issue for almost a decade, and the proof that things are getting better is that we are here today, that we continue to talk and that women already report when they suffer violence. a violence that has long been exercised and suffered in silence, in the personal silence of the victims themselves and in the complicit silence of families, neighbours and the whole of society. it is a plague that, as has been well said here today, affects all sectors of society: rich, poor, educated, uninformed... each and every one of us knows of cases that have suffered this violence. but not only are studies being made of what violence is, but it is also worth investigating whether when there is violence in the family environment, the person who exercises it also exercises violence in the workplace, if he also exercises what is called "mobbing" and tries to destroy physically and psychologically the people around him, because, deep down, whoever does it is a sick person who does not know any other way to express himself other than with this form of violence. we must therefore also consider what measures the european union should take. it is very good that legislation is being introduced, but it is also important that temporary aid is being provided, that training is being provided, that programmes such as daphne are being put in place, because all of these help us to get out of this scourge and this despicable scourge that is plaguing our society. of course, it is also true that we have to take statistics and see how they evolve, because if we really put in the means, if we really commit ourselves and put the money needed to implement these necessary programmes, we have to see how they evolve so that we can correct ourselves over time and be as effective as possible. we are dealing with public money and that money must be well justified and, above all, it must serve the purpose pursued, which is nothing more or less than ending violence against any woman, not only here in the european union, but also in third countries, where we help and do not demand that the same legality that we apply here be complied with.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i am pleased to congratulate mrs estrela once again on her fundamental work in the fight for equality between men and women in the european union, where there is unfortunately still a total injustice in the way women are treated, especially in terms of pay, recognition and opportunities. this injustice, however, varies from one member state to another. the commission must therefore take seriously the monitoring of the application by the member states of the community acquis on equal opportunities and take the necessary measures in cases where the provisions are not complied with. i am also concerned, as a father-to-be who will be a father in two months' time, about the lack of attention still paid to reconciling work and family life in general and, in particular, the difficulty many fathers still have in assuming responsible parenting in many countries, which means that women have to take on more responsibility in the family sphere at the expense of their own professional project. in short, it is a matter of committing ourselves to measures which guarantee equality in employment, in access to goods and services and in their supply.
once again we are in a debate on one of the most emblematic public services in our european society, with a strong symbolic value and confidence-building potential. the postal services are also essential because of their importance in labour-intensive manpower: a manpower with a training and sense of belonging to the service, worthy of enormous respect and recognition. the capacity of postal services to achieve territorial and social cohesion is also fundamental in an enlarged and increasingly individualistic europe. so in this new phase which is opening up - and at this moment i am also thinking of my colleague brian simpson, who i would like to have been present and who i hope will be here later - i would like to say to the commission that it is essential that the new process has a real and acceptable justification, that it has full credibility, because we are told that the service will be better afterwards, but what we are seeing today is that what is being proposed to us is greater job insecurity and many questions. we therefore call for the full guarantee of universal service with all its price and quality conditions to be fundamental and for the diversity of the current systems to be taken into account in terms of their good points - not all of them are homogenizable - and social and territorial cohesion.
mr president, mrs wallström, i am going to make a very specific proposal, because europe needs to take bold and imaginative steps to bring european affairs closer to everyone and to make progress in the creation of european public opinion. i think we need a pilot programme to open up the great european debates, to open up the councils where ministers discuss matters affecting citizens, with a clear code of conduct that makes the debate understandable. i believe that, after all the constitutional problems, this pilot project could be seen as a sign of goodwill towards transparency and open debate. i propose that this draft should be a public debate on the bolkestein directive, before the television cameras. we have heard a lot about the transparency of the council, but nothing is done about it. in this way, people would talk about this debate; a debate to put europe on the stage, to show the positions clearly and to let people know what is decided on the issues that affect each of us, every day, in our lives. i would also add that, according to article 8 of the council's rules of procedure, any member of the commission or of the council may propose such a public debate. you could propose this debate yourself.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr markov on his excellent work and congratulate us all on reaching the best possible agreement on an urgent and difficult matter, which involved improving road safety and the working conditions of drivers, ensuring legal certainty and fair competition and giving the final go-ahead to the digital tachograph. it is also, i believe, an agreement which has brought about the social convergence of 25 member states and that is a very good political signal to gradually banish the disturbing risks of social dumping. but i understand mr markov's frustration that this legislation has not been used as a lever to advance working time. however, i think it will be useful, and we'll see in the future. as in any good agreement, the particular interests of the parties have been partially frustrated in the interests of the general interest, but the truth is that significant progress has been made in the area of breaks, daily and weekly rest periods or weekly working hours, as well as in the implementation of more numerous and more intensive controls and sanctions that are transnational. in addition, the member states are obliged and the commission is committed to internationalizing these developments in the aetr agreement and there is certainly no excuse for delaying the introduction of the tachograph. the balance between rigorousness and flexibility, harmonization and subsidiarity has thus been achieved - a miracle, even if it is a secular one, of course. finally, i would like to support mr markov's demands that the commission study the impact of smaller lorries on road safety, encourage cooperation between the control authorities and develop seminars with the social partners. finally, i would like to add a request: please consider the impact of this regulation on the conditions of drivers and on the guarantee of a level playing field for peripheral countries such as mine.
i am continuing with the same argument as mr andersen, because i work for the employment committee, and i am going to vote in favour of it, because the approval will also favour another dossier which is of great concern to us, namely the general directive on working time, for which i am the rapporteur. here it is clear that the work done by mr markov is making progress on the social conditions of mobile road workers and on road safety, but it also has a very important link with that general debate in which we are engaged against those who want to empty european laws of all content. today you and we can be satisfied with a job in which there is legislation for the whole of europe, legislation which does not provide for exclusions or exemptions or opt-outs; and i take advantage of the fact that you are here, commissioner, to tell you that you will have heard the eurosceptics and the far right talking now, but beware, because on the other dossier, on the working time, we have people in the council and in the commission who use the same arguments, talking about the freedom of workers to stay outside the regulations and the freedom of states to exclude themselves from common rules which are the rules of fair competition. i shall therefore vote in favour of it, because it will greatly help the whole debate on the european organization of working time, which is very necessary for the europe of the future.
the rapporteur, mr brok, who was unable to be with us today, has asked me to add a new paragraph 28. i understand that there is consensus with the other political groups. in any event, mr president, i shall read it in its english version: 'recognises that the united nations has asked the european union to contribute to the security of the upcoming elections in the democratic republic of congo by means of a military mission; asks the council to carefully examine the existing possibilities;'
mr president, the information which was given to me on the previous amendment was indeed given to me by mr brok. in this case, it is simply an update of the information in paragraph 38, where it would be necessary to delete:and to prepare for the general elections due to take place on 15 december 2005 and replace it with in the wake of the general elections held on 15 december 2005. it's just a refresher, because the report was obsolete.
when the negotiating table was set up between the various political groups, it was agreed that no amendments would be tabled; there have been two political groups who have tabled amendments. i would like to say, mr president, that the oral amendment which we voted on, which was proposed by mr landsbergis and which makes a lot of sense, should not have been put to the vote, in my view, before the green amendment was put to the vote. i think, mr president, that we should first table the amendments as they are and then see if we can get an oral amendment from mr landsbergis.
mr president, in the joint resolution, on which there are in fact no amendments, there has been a slip of the tongue, and the other political groups are aware of it, because in paragraph 3 it says that the council's common position has been amended, and the council's common position has not been amended: the measures supplementing the council's common position have been amended. therefore, in that paragraph 3, where it says 'main objective of the changes introduced by the council of january 2005' it should read 'changes introduced to the complementary measures accompanying the council's common position'.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 2 february 2006.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 9 february 2006. the following amendments have been proposed:wednesday:the secretariat has just received three requests for amendments to the agenda from the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, stricto sensu, these requests have been submitted outside the time limit set by the rules of procedure. therefore, they should not be taken into consideration. however, the president considers that, given the very narrow time difference and the political importance of the matter, these should be taken into account. i insist that it is done even though they are submitted after the deadline and if no political group opposes them. i believe there have been consultations on this. we shall now hear from mrs neyts-uyttebroeck, who first of all makes a request that in the debate on the right to freedom of expression and respect for religious beliefs there should not be just one speaker per political group, as agreed by the conference of presidents, but that there should be a list of speakers by the normal procedure.
we shall consider the proposals one by one, because there is not just one but several. the first calls for the list of speakers not to be limited to the chairmen or spokesmen of the political groups; the second, as mrs neyts-uyttebroeck has explained, calls for the item to be concluded by a resolution; and the third, which would only make sense if one of the two previous items were adopted, calls for another item, namely the declarations on bosnia-herzegovina, to be postponed. we will go step by step: first we will debate and vote on whether or not there is a list of speakers.
mr cohn-bendit, forgive me, but i think that these are two completely different things: whether or not there is a resolution is one thing. another thing is the number of people who are involved in the debate.
we shall vote on the proposal from the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe that there should be more than one speaker per group. (parliament rejected the proposal) we shall now vote on whether to accept or reject the proposal from the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe for a resolution to be adopted after the debate. (parliament adopted the proposal)
the time for transactions is over, mr. swoboda. we have voted.
mrs frassoni, i asked earlier if anyone had any objection to the proposals being debated even though they had arrived late and no one objected. you can't override the vote.
mr voggenhuber, we have already voted. the question now is whether there is another proposal that can be put to the vote.
all right, so there is a proposal from the socialist group, which the presidency will allow to be put to the vote, that the vote on this resolution should take place at the next partsession in brussels.
all right, thank you for your observation.
we shall now vote on the socialist group's motion for a resolution so that the vote on the resolution can take place at the next partsession. (parliament rejected the proposal) we still have to vote on the third proposal from the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe to postpone an item on the agenda, namely the perspectives for bosnia and herzegovina.
i think there has been a great deal of confusion in the debate and the vote that has taken place. the house has accepted that there should be only one speaker per group, so there is no need to change the agenda and the debate continues as planned and as approved by the conference of presidents. the only thing that changes, mr president, is that there will be a resolution, nothing more.
we will all have to be disciplined in the use of time so that we can deal with all the issues and none of them fall away. if you agree to do so, we shall not have to change the agenda. (the order of business is thus established.) for other changes to the order of business, see minutes.
we now move on to the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, the citizens of europe do not have a common language. the various institutions of the union therefore have services which enable communication. in spain, the existence of castilian as a common language and its recognition as an official language of the state do not prevent citizens from being granted the right to use other spanish languages with official status: galician, catalan and basque. all of them are also european languages, form part of the european communication space - and even the hyperspace - and have a european vocation. the spanish government has proposed the formula of the administrative agreement to assume, without burden for the community institutions or the other member states, the promotion of a reasonable use of these languages within the union. this proposal is in line with the existing language rules and has been accepted by the council and the committee of the regions. mr president, i do not know why there has not been progress in its acceptance, because the conditions for the cooperation requested have been created, the role of parliament as the house of the people will be strengthened, institutional coherence will be brought about and democratic value will be created. our institution cannot be left behind in this respect.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the great efforts being made to bring the european institutions closer to the citizens. the commission has just adopted the white paper; we have a plan for dialogue; and in this attempt to find new and better ways of communicating, we cannot forget the natural way, which is the language of the citizens of europe. in spain, in addition to spanish as the common language, citizens are granted the right to use other official languages: catalan, basque, galician, all european languages. in december 2004, the spanish government submitted a proposal to the council to authorise, under certain conditions, the use of these languages without adding any burden to the institutions of the union. the commission, the council and the committee of the regions have already put this proposal into practice. parliament is still outstanding. the aim is to enable these languages to be used in correspondence between citizens and parliament, in the publication of legislative provisions and in the speeches of meps. mr president, this request does not represent a cost to the institution, but on the contrary would be a great asset to this parliament. (the president cut the speaker off)
mrs de keyser, i thank you for this information and for the telephone call you made to me this weekend to tell me. we'd be happy to welcome the president of the palestinian authority if he could come here.
we're calling this session off.
the next item is the report (a6-0017/2006) by mr thijs berman, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council directive laying down minimum requirements for the protection of chickens kept for meat production (com (2005) 0221 - c6- 0190/2005 - 2005/0099 (cns)).
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the members of the committees that have dealt with this matter, but i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr berman, for the very valuable work he has done and for all the efforts he has made to bring this initiative to a successful conclusion. i know that the proposals, when they reach the stage of decision, may not fully satisfy all parties. some would like us to move more in one direction, some might feel that we haven't made enough progress, others might think that we should be more conservative and that we have already gone too far. but i think that this proposal, as it is shaped by many of the amendments that have been tabled, is a balanced, a rational proposal, which balances on the one hand the need for better treatment of animals, for animal welfare, particularly for the chicken sector, but at the same time takes account of the economic cost and the burden that it may cause to industry and to the businessmen in this sector. but first of all, we must not underestimate the close link between animal welfare and animal health, and this is particularly important now that we are discussing the measures to be taken to combat avian influenza, which has now reached - even wild birds - in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare system is not disrupted. there is much better surveillance, much better identification of health problems that may occur, and of course this means, in practical terms, less disease for the animals, less death, less unsuitable chickens in this case, so less loss and less cost. so it may, on the surface, look like a cost to the businessmen, to the producers, to the farmers, but it is actually a benefit, which will lead to savings and economic benefits for the producers. i would also like to point out that the world bank has recently published a report which shows the economic benefits of implementing animal welfare policies and how there is also an economic benefit to be gained from these policies. the second point i would like to make is of course the question of aid to producers. it is particularly important that they do not bear all the costs, but european consumers are prepared to spend more if they know that certain products have been produced in accordance with animal welfare and good animal treatment practices. and through labelling, voluntarily at the beginning - we will present a report on mandatory labelling - producers will be given the opportunity to exploit the very fact that they are pursuing a policy which resonates with european citizens and, indeed, on the basis of our studies and research, they can charge a little more because european consumers are prepared to spend more. of course, there is also the general multi-pronged strategy, the strategic plan for animal welfare, which was recently adopted by the commission and will be discussed in parliament. this proposal may predate this action plan, but it is consistent with the principles and philosophy and proposals of this action plan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that european producers may often feel that they are at a disadvantage vis-à-vis third countries. there is a continuing effort to introduce welfare and animal welfare terms and conditions into international trade. it's not easy; we promote it. the recent adoption by the world organisation for animal health of principles on the welfare of animals is a first step in this direction and we will intensify our efforts in this direction. however, given the very high level of sensitivity of european consumers, we believe that labelling will be able to give an advantage to european producers. it will not be a disadvantage to have animal welfare policies. on the contrary, it will give them access to the very large european consumer market.
i would like to thank mr berman for his work, because his political position has been very constructive and realistic and has enabled us to strike a balance between the different points of view expressed by our colleagues. this draft report, adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development on this new directive on the welfare of chickens for fattening, is balanced, because it takes account of production practices in most member states. the key point in this report is the one concerning densities, as you know. from the information i have gathered, the densities envisaged in the report of the committee on agriculture and rural development are more than acceptable in most european regions, but they could pose some problems in certain very specific areas of the union. as rapporteur, i have tried to express the views of the majority and, of course, as regards the amendments, i can tell you in advance that i do not intend to support most of them. however, i do think that amendment no 42 responds to a very justified political concern, namely to extend to imports from third countries minimum standards already applied in the european union. as for amendment no 44, which abolishes the introduction of labelling for meat subject to the new welfare directive, i have to say that it is contrary to the need to add value to these products in order to give greater visibility to the efforts made by european producers. the european union has been producing a wealth of legislation in recent years to improve animal welfare and to address one of the concerns expressed by european public opinion. in this way we have managed to improve considerably, sometimes at the cost of jeopardizing the profitability of the sector, the protection of laying hens, calves or sows for breeding. it must be recognized that this effort should result in an improvement in the quality of products for the european consumer, which must be accompanied by an effective labelling policy. however, support for the amendments that have been tabled, which for the most part unnecessarily tighten the rules, will bring adaptation problems in some regions.
madam president, animal welfare on farms has traditionally been a matter of ethics. today, because of the multiple food crises, it has also become a public health issue. it is therefore very necessary and urgent to have specific regulation on this matter. i think that is something we all agree on throughout the debate. but to face it, we must have our feet on the ground. we must make a viable and credible proposal, not merely a toast to the sun, which gives an image of inconsistency with the figures currently handled by the council. i therefore believe that the rapporteur's report, mr berman, which i congratulate, combines a genuine concern for animal welfare, always attentive to scientific data, with the necessary flexibility in its application which makes it possible for producers to accept the proposed measures and adapt to them. on the one hand, it proposes measures to prevent the practice of unnecessary and unnecessary suffering of animals and, on the most debated and controversial point - the density of farming - it sets out credible, applicable figures which represent a major advance in the matter and which will be defendable before the council. i think we must - and we have done so in the committee on agriculture and rural development - exercise responsibility. on the other hand, it is a proposal which maintains the necessary flexibility for producers, which makes this minimum regulation really applicable in the countries of the union, and which does not lead to unnecessary closures of farms, as is often the case. i believe that the necessary firmness is being shown in imposing the rules with a gradual application of penalties and an estimate of the costs for producers, with the intention that the burdens resulting from the directive do not fall on them - as is often the case. in conclusion, i ask for support for the berman report as presented by the rapporteur and as supported in the committee on agriculture and rural development. i think that this is a measured, balanced and balanced proposal, which takes account of the interests of all parties, something which is not always easy. it is clear that its approval will have positive repercussions for the quality of the final product, that is to say, for the welfare of european consumers.
member of the commission. mr president, mr hökmark’s remarks make sense, and i could not agree more with them. it is a pleasure to take part in the discussion about the report on the state aid action plan prepared by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i can assure you that, after your remarks, it is an even greater pleasure. as has been said, it is of fundamental importance to handle state aid in the correct way. if it is not handled in the correct way, it is an instrument which, instead of providing a solution, can have the opposite effect. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his clear and balanced report. i greatly appreciate the interest and involvement of the european parliament in the process of reforming the rules of state aid. this is – as has been mentioned before – a crucial project. it is a high priority for me during this term in office. you may remember that the consultation on state aid reform was launched here in strasbourg last june. today, again, strasbourg is the place where we are continuing the debate and, hopefully, will come to a conclusion as to which direction we can go with the review. i am happy to say that the consultation on state aid reform will be completed with your report. the commission has received many comments on the state aid action plan, from many different stakeholders across europe. for me, your comments are an essential complement to what i have heard from elsewhere in europe. i am very pleased that parliament, like the great majority of stakeholders, is supportive, in general, of the commission’s plans. i will not repeat the content of the reform programme, which was touched upon by the rapporteur. in the spirit of the lisbon strategy, we want state aid reform to help member states get the best value for money by focusing state resources on measures that will contribute to sustainable economic growth and to more and better jobs for the future. state aid is taxpayers’ money, so we need to take into account that we can explain it to those who want it and those who obtain it. we also want to improve the procedures and administration of state aid policy, as was rightly touched upon by the rapporteur. one important message in the report is the need for legal certainty. i fully share the concern that, if we are not successful in making that legal certainty visible, then we will have failed. the commission will explain further how it intends to use economics for state aid policy. market failure is not a magic word; it is, rather, a methodology to analyse the problems within markets. i agree with the report’s focus on the need for transparency of aid. on services of general economic interest, the commission has no competence to interpret the jurisprudence. nevertheless – i got your message, mr president! – the commission will try to give guidance when adopting decisions on individual cases in this field. i look forward to your questions and comments, and i will do my utmost to respond to them.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, since i agree wholeheartedly with the report drawn up by my fellow member, mr hökmark, i will allow myself to be very precise and deal exclusively with the issues i wish to stress. as regards the general philosophy, i agree that since state aid is a form of competition policy aimed at establishing a level playing field between the various undertakings, it seems to me that it would be necessary to emphasize not only those aids which take the form of a grant or subsidy and which therefore fall under the heading of public expenditure, but also those fiscal incentives which do not correspond to the nature of a tax but which correspond to the desire, the purpose of stimulating certain activities in geographical areas, in short, the same purpose as direct aid. in the field of r & d & i, i particularly congratulate the rapporteur on the widening of the scope of the beneficiary subject, by expressly including universities among the possible beneficiaries of this form of aid. i also congratulate you - and i turn now to the commissioner - on your comments on capital/risk. if there is one thing that explains the differences between the growth of the united states and europe, it is the dynamism, the power of their small and mediumsized enterprises, not so much in the net birth rate, which is more or less the same, but in the superior capacity of american small businesses to grow in the first two years, which requires a certain amount of funding. and in terms of capital/risk we are very far away. if my figures are correct, while risk capital represents 0.45% of us gdp, european risk capital does not reach 0.14%. on regional aid, which is the last point i will deal with, i also stress what mr koterec has said, but i would like to add one aspect which has not been touched upon: it would not be logical to also deprive regions which no longer receive structural funds for natural growth, and not just for statistical reasons, as the rapporteur says, of state aid. so will the commissioner allow me to correct paragraph 36 on this subject, including regions which lose funds for statistical reasons and those which lose them because of their natural growth. i congratulate the rapporteur again.
mr president, state aid is a legitimate instrument of public policy. in so far as they provide a unique advantage and differentiated treatment, their establishment requires a stricter justification than other alternatives and a refined design that ensures their effectiveness and coherence with the union's policies and objectives as well as its international commitments. the reform of public aid in the period 2005-2009 must take into account that, even if regional aid contributes to real convergence, there are large internal differences in income and opportunities between europe's regions. the result of the hökmark report is fairly balanced. i would like to see the need to link the reform of regional structural aid with the reform of the structural funds regulations until 2013, emphasising their complementarity, and to advocate the maintenance of appropriate support measures for the regions affected by the statistical effect without discrimination. i welcome the proposal to raise the de minimis threshold, which will eliminate red tape and favour smes in particular.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank the honourable members for their contributions. some practical suggestions and ideas were put forward, particularly by mrs mccarthy, which i have taken up with my services. solvit is about making the single market work. we often hear calls for more single market, more harmonisation. that seems to many to be the answer to all problems. i do not believe that more directives and more harmonisation are the only solutions. indeed, they may even be part of the problem. if there is a practical problem with doing business across borders, it needs a practical solution. legal proceedings or regulation are rarely a practical solution, but solvit is. it allows the parties to the problem and the national administrations to communicate effectively and to find a solution in a matter of weeks. our businesses and consumers need an answer and a solution. systems such as solvit contribute to that. solvit has been a success. hundreds of problems have been solved through it. some may not be impressed by these figures, but high numbers indicate that there are problems and that the single market is not working in some areas. that is certainly not the case; the single market is working, but it needs some assistance here and there through light-touch mechanisms. that is what solvit is. we should not make it a victim of its own success by formalising it or making it heavy-handed. yes, we must raise awareness that solvit is a way of solving problems. yes, member states and the commission must ensure it is properly resourced, but we should not turn it into something that it is not. my recommendation for solvit is the same as it is for many other issues: namely, keep it simple.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by mr michael cashman, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the confiscation of cars by the greek authorities (2005/2005 (ini)) (a6-0394/2005).
on behalf of the green group, mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr cashman for his very clear, concise and accurate report. the tone of the debate suggests that some people do not quite understand what the committee on petitions is; we respond to the complaints and concerns of citizens in any country. we are not dealing with an internal matter of a country, quite the contrary: we are dealing with the affairs of european citizens whose rights have been violated. that's what the committee on petitions does. we are neither judge nor party. we have not decided anything in the committee on petitions. we are mediators. we are responding to european citizenship. in this case, i think that the majority of the members of the committee on petitions believe that rights and directives have been violated and that the practice of the greek authorities of confiscating cars, the practice of imposing astronomical fines, is completely unacceptable. there is a clear breach of directive 83/182, and that affects the whole of europe. an administration should not be financed or act in such a vague and unfair way towards its citizens and, in short, towards all europeans who want to visit that precious, wonderful and historic country which is greece. we would like to be able to visit greece without the fear of having our car taken away, or of the things that happen there. finally, i would like to thank the commission's technical team for the exemplary and excellent mediation and communication work they have done, a professional and, i believe, very effective job. i hope that the greek authorities will intervene as soon as possible to change the very objectionable practice we are discussing today.
member of the commission. mr president, i do not think my attitude was negative: it was objective, based on the facts made available to us and on the complaints we have received from greek citizens who have their residence in a country other than greece. it related to the lack of proportionality expressed by the confiscation of cars and the very high fines. these were the basic points of the infringement procedures, which we had to launch because this is a violation of community law, and the commission is ex officio guardian of the treaties.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr csaba öry, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text adopted by the conciliation committee of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the minimum safety and health requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (optical radiation of artificial origin) (19th individual directive within the meaning of article 16 (1) of directive 897/391/eec) (pe-cons 3668/2005 - c6-0001/2006 - 1992/0449b ((cod)) ((a6-0026/2006).
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i have listened with interest to your discussion and i am pleased to note that the motion that has passed the conciliation procedure has broad support. i would like to thank everyone who took part in this procedure, because it was not very easy and in many cases it was very difficult to find a good compromise solution. in any event, many arguments have been considered and this directive is a step forward. i think that none of the ideas that have come up in the discussion are ideas that can be easily dismissed by a simple argument, and i also think that the question of further considerations on the development of occupational safety and health is still open. despite all this, i regard the outcome of the procedure as a significant step forward and, on the basis of the present hearing, i expect that the directive will receive significant support tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
member of the commission. mr president, i welcome this report on the human rights and democracy clause in european union agreements prepared by the honourable members of this house, and especially by mr agnoletto, and the resolution before parliament today. human rights clauses have been inserted systematically into external agreements since 1995 and, ten years on, it is timely to take stock of what has been achieved. all eu institutions need to work together to this end, and i emphasise my commitment to an ongoing, but also very practical, dialogue with the council and parliament, for which this report provides a good basis. i shall begin by underlining how much has already been achieved: it must be said that the glass is more than half full. after often difficult discussions and very difficult negotiations, the commission has secured the inclusion of a human rights and democracy clause in, as you said, more than 50 agreements, covering over 120 countries. a notable example is, indeed, that of articles 9 and 96 of the cotonou agreement. in the field of trade policy, the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance, known as ‘gsp+’, provides additional benefits for countries that implement, inter alia, certain international standards in human and social rights; so it is a positive incentive. the impact of human rights clauses is already evident, and many of our human rights activities are supported by their mere existence. human rights feature prominently in every political dialogue with our partners. human rights subcommittees are being established with a growing number of partners, and, indeed, the european union neighbourhood policy action plans contain highly detailed sections on human rights. the commission, as part of the troika, makes numerous démarches on human rights issues every year, and the european initiative on democracy and human rights funds human rights projects throughout the world. the commission is also funding numerous technical assistance projects with an impact on human rights, ranging from, for instance, improving police training to modernising the judicial system in partner countries. the rule of law is one of the most important areas where i think we can really make a difference. i would also like to mention how active both member state embassies and commission delegations are in this regard. eu heads of mission collectively draw up human rights fact sheets periodically, report on the implementation of the various eu human rights guidelines and make detailed analyses of developments in particular countries concerning human rights and democracy. more and more frequently, political reporting from the commission delegations is covering human rights issues. assessing the effectiveness of the human rights clause to date needs to be done in a comprehensive manner. the human rights and democracy clause is, in itself, an important way of demonstrating the shared commitment of the european union and its partners to upholding, and also to promoting, human rights. the human rights clause opens the door to developing a deeper and more intensive dialogue on human rights issues. moreover, the existence of these clauses may, in some cases, even help deter potential human rights violations. as far as sanctions are concerned, i would like to underline that the frequency of imposition clearly depends less on the wording of the human rights clause than on the political will of the member states, as well as of the other states. i agree that, when sanctions are not implemented in response to serious breaches of human rights, the credibility of the eu’s human rights policy could be damaged. for its part, the commission would sometimes like to see a more robust use of these clauses but the solution is not, however, to include more clauses in the agreement. instead, we need to build up awareness and the consensus throughout the european union on the importance of human rights issues relative to other priorities. this report therefore makes a valuable contribution in this regard. as regards parliament’s involvement in negotiating or suspending an agreement, you will be well aware that these procedures are clearly established by the treaty and reflect the interinstitutional structure of the european union. parliament already plays an invaluable role in focusing attention on human rights issues, through the extremely active work of the subcommittee on human rights, through its annual report on human rights in the world and through the many resolutions and debates on particular human rights issues. moreover, i very much welcome the suggestion that interparliamentary delegations should take up human rights issues much more systematically. i think that there, too, you have a great role to play. i also favour revising the format of the current eu annual report on human rights in order to make it a fully interinstitutional report and to include an analysis of the application of human rights clauses. in conclusion, let me reiterate that the success of human rights clauses should be measured by the progress made in engaging partners in a genuine dialogue and in consultations on human rights, and the resulting improvements in human rights. over the last ten years, human rights clauses have provided an indispensable foundation for developing a truly effective human rights dialogue with our partners because it is in this way that these countries slowly change their behaviour. that does not mean, of course, that there is no room for improvement: there is always room for improvement, and i look forward to this debate today and to an ongoing and active debate with parliament. we are in a listening mood, but we would also like to contribute to improving human rights in the world. (applause)
opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. mr president, mrs ferrero-waldner, ladies and gentlemen, the inclusion of a human rights clause in our international agreements is one of the hallmarks of the european union. its content has evolved over time and in line with the nature of successive agreements: more than 50 now with more than 120 countries, as the commissioner has just mentioned. unfortunately, this has not prevented the violation of human rights from sometimes forcing the suspension of our agreements. the committee on development and cooperation has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the report we are debating today. secondly, we want to stress that the fight against poverty is our priority and that we will not succeed without a comprehensive approach to the processes of democratization and development. thirdly, we insist on a two-pronged approach to conditionality: positive discrimination for those countries which make the most progress and negative discrimination in cases of serious and persistent violations. fourthly, we should stress the exemplary values of the cotonou agreement, by its extensive application to 77 countries and by the effectiveness and flexibility of the suspensive clause in article 96, which is the only agreement which has given rise to sanctions and which has worked relatively well. fifth, we insist on transparency as one of our guiding principles. sixthly, we support all measures to achieve the millennium development goals and, in this connection, we welcome the decision of the g8 to cancel the debts of the 18 poorest countries on the planet. seventhly, we call for greater commitment from the countries with which we cooperate in the pursuit of these objectives. and, eighthly, we regret some of the commission's decisions which we do not share, such as the lifting of sanctions against sudan in connection with the serious events in darfur.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, respect for democratic principles and fundamental human rights, as enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights, is the inspiration for the parties' internal and international policies and is an essential element of the european union's international agreements. this cumbersome and vague formulation of the democratic clause which i have just read has many limitations and lacks mechanisms to ensure its operation. the result is that the clause is often used as an alibi or rhetorical example, without it actually having consequences. the report we are debating today seeks to put an end to this situation by legally strengthening the effectiveness of the clause. the socialists have made a number of proposals to this end, which have been included in this report, and we are very pleased with them. i take this opportunity to congratulate mr agnoletto and to thank him for his work and his understanding. but we don't want to fool ourselves. this own-initiative report will be confronted with reality again when we apply the clause. the european union must promote the introduction of the clause in line with the recommendations of this report, and we are asking this house to do so today. we will continue to need a lot of political will on the part of the union to ensure that respect for human rights really does constitute an added value in international agreements, in the promotion of dignity, so that the introduction of the clause is not a dead letter and so that its use is not hypocritical and only applicable to the convenience of our interests. to do this we need a real commitment from europe to human rights - an effective, credible and coherent commitment. we can put in place a system of alerting to human rights violations that allows for appropriate action and timely reaction. europe must maintain reciprocity in the application of the human rights clause, because we must be able to maintain a frank and open dialogue with the countries with which we have an agreement, and we must also be able to listen to the criticisms of the partner countries, for example, on how we europeans treat their nationals, and react accordingly. europe must maintain a credible position. human rights cannot be a bargaining chip. we cannot give up our defence of the union in favour of other interests of the moment. we must call for the abolition of the death penalty in india, china, japan and the united states. we must demand an end to torture wherever it occurs, whether in guantanamo, whether in iraq, whether in syria. in a world obsessed with short-term profit and security, we cannot let our guard down in defending our universal rights.
mr president, i am really pleased to see that there is a high degree of consensus in this house that the development and consolidation of democracy and the rule of law, as well as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, are - and should be - an overall objective of the common foreign and security policy and should be an integral part of the european union's foreign policy. i say that they should be more so because, as has been said, there are many, too many examples of these principles being distorted, if not abolished, in favour of particular economic, commercial or political interests. it is true that the so-called human rights and democracy clause has been incorporated into more than 50 agreements, and that this affects 120 countries, but it is also true that the degree of compliance and the demand for compliance on our part is very varied. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. first of all, i should like to stress that it is important to remember that many agreements with developed countries and sectoral agreements, such as those relating to textiles, agriculture and fisheries, do not yet contain such a clause, which is a clear shortfall. secondly, although the clause applies to both the european union and the third country, the reciprocity dimension of the clause has not yet been fully exploited and, as mrs valenciano martínez-orozco has said, i believe that the european union must start by setting an example. thirdly, one of the reasons that has jeopardised its implementation is the generic nature of its formulation, since it does not provide for precise modalities of positive or negative intervention in cooperation between the european union and third countries, giving way to a predominance of the council and the national requirements of the member states over more general requirements in the field of human rights. we therefore support the drafting of a new text for a model clause which would improve the current wording of the so-called article 2 in order to ensure a more coherent, effective and transparent approach to european human rights policy in agreements with third countries. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i agree with the rapporteur, mr agnoletto, that parliament must not only give an opinion but must also have a role in human rights, democracy and respect for diversity in agreements with external countries. economic development, social peace and a growing economy are clearly related to democracy and human rights. cooperation for development can only be assured in the context of democratic societies. if we analyse the efficacy of our cooperation for development, we will confirm that in those countries where democracy and respect for human rights are improved, everything works better. in cases of dictatorships, non-transparent regimes or corrupted governments, our work can be completely distorted. i wish to point out that we must fully understand democracy and human rights. democracy means respect for diversity; human rights are not complete without respect for diversity, plurality and cultural differences. we have seen how minorities in countries close to joining the european union rely on us in order to achieve this respect for their rights. a chance for plurality and respect for cultural and national rights can come from the european institutions, irrespective of the fact that many european countries do not respect it. we have to enhance the role of our parliament, because it is the house of our european representatives.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the recent cutbacks in the supply of natural gas to ukraine have brought before our eyes a problem to which we may not have given the importance it deserves. in addition, in recent weeks the price of a barrel of crude oil has fluctuated between $60 and $65, a price that would have seemed impossible to us years ago. if we add to all this the unstable situation in the middle east, the conclusion is clear: the european union must act urgently. we cannot continue to look complacently at our external energy dependence. we must act with intelligence and decisiveness, for there is no time to lose. i have no doubt that the initiatives announced by the commissioner will have important benefits for the future of the union, but we cannot forget the legislation which has already entered into force and which has not been transposed with sufficient diligence into national law by some member states. the current oil prices are certainly a benchmark for the cost-effectiveness thresholds of substitution technologies: there is a great opportunity for renewable energy sources to reach competitive prices with public aid, in line with state aid legislation. as the commissioner has rightly pointed out, the renewable energy directive is difficult to enforce. biomass has a key role to play, as its potential is under-exploited. the directive on energy efficiency in buildings already contains some provisions on the use of biomass for heating which will have to be further developed. we believe that a new heating and cooling directive which takes account of mrs rothe's excellent report, with renewable energy sources, must include objectives which are both ambitious and realistic: clear guidelines on financing mechanisms and an exemplary role for the public sector. we are confident that the commission will once again live up to expectations.
the debate on the report by evelyne gebhardt, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on services in the internal market (com (2004) 0002 - c5-0069/2004 - 2004/0001 (cod)) (a6-0409/2005) is closed. parliament is fully aware of the importance of this debate.
the president of the council. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. as mrs gebhardt has already said, the european commission presented a proposal for a directive on services in the european single market in february 2004. the implementation of this proposal should bring europe a step closer to the spirit of lisbon. the november 2004 report of a high-level group of experts chaired by wim kok, in preparation for the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy - commissioned by the commission - called for the creation of a european market for services as the greatest opportunity for more growth in europe. in economic terms, this boost to growth is necessary for europe. we know that our priority is growth and hence employment. the european single market has made considerable progress in its first 10 years, in particular by creating 2.5 million additional jobs. it is for this very reason that all the gaps in the common market which still exist should be closed. the legal and bureaucratic obstacles to service providers, set up by the european commission, have shown us how fragmented european service markets really are. the consequences are higher prices than necessary, less competition for the benefit of consumers and missed opportunities for more growth and employment. the proposal of the previous commission under prodi the commissioner responsible was frits bolkestein is now being discussed intensively in the relevant council working party since february 2004. in the public debate, it has - and rightly so - drawn a lot of criticism. but for some, it was also a cause for unnecessary anxiety. the aim of the services directive is clear and broadly supported in principle, namely to create greater freedom to provide services and to systematically remove unjustified barriers for service providers. the commission must now revise the way in which it does so. the vote in the european parliament will be an essential basis for this. the completion of the internal market for services should bring benefits to europe's citizens, consumers and businesses, but should not allow the european social model to be weakened or even called into question. the citizens of europe have a right to an internal market in services without the risk of wage or social dumping. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the provisions of the directive are applied in practice, and that the member states are able to apply them in practice. it is also necessary to make it clear that this service directive does not affect the quality, the coverage and the performance of public service provision. the eyes of the council presidency are now on the european parliament. the presidency and the council await with great interest the outcome of the first reading. the council's further action would be particularly helped by the broadest possible majority in the european parliament. we also welcome the - obviously successful - initiatives and efforts of the two large groups in this house to find a broad consensus in the sense of a good compromise, especially on controversial points. after the vote in the european parliament's plenary on 16 february, the day after tomorrow, the commission is called upon to play an active role in the codecision procedure. the presidency will work - in close cooperation with parliament, but also, of course, with the commission - towards a balanced directive which takes account of the concerns expressed about the present proposal and at the same time creates a legal basis for a functioning internal market in services which can maximise the potential for growth and employment. we are now aware of two studies - one from copenhagen, one from vienna - which suggest that some 600 000 jobs could be created as a result of a services directive. the presidency welcomes in this context the announcement made in vienna by president barroso to propose the main points for a political agreement very soon after the vote in the european parliament's plenary and in time for the european council in march. the austrian presidency will then discuss these in depth and promote them with the involvement - and i would like to emphasize this - of the social partners. it must be the aim of all of us to make the most of the potential for growth and employment that a single market in services can offer, while at the same time strengthening the confidence of our citizens in a social europe. (applause from the centre and the right)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr minister, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this week is a crucial milestone for the services directive, for the completion of the internal market, for our strategy for growth and jobs in europe. i therefore welcome the fact that the european parliament is prepared to take a position on this proposal and to assume its responsibility to the citizens of europe. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the members directly concerned, in particular the fictitious rapporteurs, who have done an admirable job in the last few months, enabling us to reach the stage we have reached today. today's debate and the vote on thursday are important moments for the future of the european union and this, let me say, goes beyond the very important subject of services in the internal market. there is no doubt that we still have a long way to go before our economies can fully realize and benefit from the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the treaty. commissioner charlie mccreevy will be with you in a moment to discuss the progress made on this case. but i would now like to stress a very important aspect which goes far beyond the purely economic dimension: is the european union enlarged to 25 member states capable of finding, by common agreement, appropriate solutions to extremely difficult and sensitive problems? i would add that it is to deal with the problems which are most sensitive to our public opinion. to be even clearer, i am convinced - and so is the commission - that it is desirable to build a strong consensus in parliament around this directive. a strong consensus which will then, we hope, make it possible to secure an agreement in the council and create the conditions for convergence between our three institutions. i am confident that this week parliament will be able to put into practice the keen sense of responsibility it has shown throughout this process. as you know - and we must be frank about this - this directive, which was presented in january 2004 by the commission of my predecessor, romano prodi, has for some time been a source of great concern in certain circles in our member states and in general in european public opinion. although based on legitimate fears about the protection of social acquis, some criticisms were sometimes based on genuine misunderstandings. but these criticisms have also sometimes fuelled controversy quite outside the directive itself. the commission i chair and i have never left any doubt that we do want a genuine internal market for services. we want a market that works and adds value to our economy. we now want to put into practice the principles of the four freedoms which were bequeathed to us by the founding fathers of europe. we also want to address the legitimate concerns that have been expressed. the result will therefore, if you will, ladies and gentlemen, be the result of a compromise. by definition, we need a compromise, a compromise which preserves and respects the principles of the treaty and which is part of our programme for growth and jobs. the commission is prepared to support and adopt in its revised proposal all the elements which constitute a step forward towards the achievement of a genuine internal market in services and on which a large majority in your assembly will be able to reach a decision. after almost two years of debate, it is now high time to put the divisions behind us, to build bridges, to create the conditions for an agreement. it is time to prove to our citizens that the union of 25 member states works, that it is aware of its common destiny and that it knows how to achieve results in the interests of everyone. the question now is to grasp what is realistic and achievable at this stage. after a difficult year in 2005, we are now on the way to restoring confidence in the european union. we must work towards pragmatic solutions to address the real problems of our citizens. if the first reading of the services directive in plenary on thursday leads to a vote reconciling the requirements of competitiveness with our social concerns, that would be a victory, not only for you, ladies and gentlemen, for the european parliament, but also for the union as a whole. ladies and gentlemen, do not doubt our ambitions for europe. and in this respect, we must be clear on the economic question. is it acceptable to have 20 million unemployed in the european union? what stronger argument could we need to justify our initiative? is this not one of the main reasons for the lack of confidence in the union? today, the two main sectors with the potential to create jobs in europe are services and small and medium-sized enterprises. these are the sectors to which we must give priority: the creation of a genuine service market and support for small and medium-sized enterprises. (applause from the right) it is primarily them that the directive will benefit. although this is only a first step, i can hardly see a more social strategy than that which creates quality jobs. before i turn to charlie mccreevy, with your permission, mr president, i would like to wish everyone a fruitful, constructive and positive debate. let us work together to have a directive on services which, in a balanced way, reflects our ambition for europe: an enlarged europe, a more modern, more competitive europe, a europe based on the four fundamental freedoms bequeathed to us by our founding fathers. (applause from the centre and right)
member of the commission. mr president, since its birth two years ago, this proposal has been in the headlines. both its supporters and its opponents see it as a symbol. during all the controversy about this proposal, which focused on a relatively small number of issues, it was easy to forget that there are many other areas in which, i believe, broad agreement exists and in which the benefits of the proposal are recognised. firstly, thanks to administrative simplification, it will be easier to establish a business in the eu. this is crucial for fostering entrepreneurship, a vital element in promoting growth and jobs. service providers will be able to obtain information and to complete administrative formalities through single points of contact in any member state, thus simplifying, accelerating and reducing the cost of the authorisation process and obviating the need to deal with different levels of authorities. it will also be possible to fulfil these procedures electronically, so that businesses save time and avoid incurring considerable costs in having to make visits in person – sometimes several times – in order to complete the necessary formalities with the relevant authorities. secondly, it will be good for consumers. improving consumer confidence is a key component in boosting the possibilities that the internal market offers them. they will benefit as key information about businesses and the service they are providing will be made easily available. this will enable them to make informed choices when they are purchasing services. rights of consumers are clearly set out, and any discrimination on the basis of nationality or place of business must be removed. thirdly, member states will have to implement administrative cooperation to ensure that businesses are properly and efficiently supervised across the eu, while avoiding duplication of control. this legal obligation will be underpinned at a practical level by an electronic system enabling authorities to exchange information directly and efficiently. these, amongst many others in the draft directive, are provisions which will bring forward significant benefits, both for businesses and consumers – i know that you have never lost sight of this. in assessing the amendments adopted in the lead committee’s opinion, and the further amendments tabled since, the commission is taking a highly constructive and positive position. in particular, we intend to take on board and incorporate in our revised proposal those amendments that we believe to be supported by a broad majority in this house. the commission broadly welcomes amendments put forward by the european parliament which aim to clarify and improve the commission’s initial proposal. these relate mainly to administrative simplification, establishment and administrative cooperation. the commission also broadly welcomes many of the amendments adopted by the committee on internal market and consumer protection in relation to services of general interest. this is a sensitive question that has split opinions during the entire debate and it is clear, in my view, that the committee on internal market and consumer protection vote has achieved a great deal in this respect. on the other hand, i believe that services of general economic interest should stay within the scope of the proposal. any further exclusions of sectors from the scope of the proposal should be extremely limited. the compromise texts i have seen give us a good basis for producing our amended proposal if they are adopted. but we need to be clear about how we will deal with possible deletions from the proposal. if parliament votes to delete articles 24 and 25 of the proposal concerning the posting of workers, then the commission will produce guidance to address any undue administrative burdens which may hinder the opportunities for enterprises to avail of the posted workers directive. this can be done relatively quickly. there is well-established court jurisprudence which needs to be complied with. equally, if health services are excluded from the scope of the directive, this does not take away from the necessity to address the increasing jurisprudence of the court of justice with regard to patient mobility. a separate proposal from the commission addressing this issue will therefore be necessary. the compromise texts also recognise the freedom that service providers should have to access markets in other member states and to exercise their activities there. i welcome the fact that they recognise that a whole range of barriers to the provision of these services will have to be abolished while, of course, permitting certain restrictions on well-defined public policy grounds. it is important to underline that any amendments we accept must meet the objective that this directive should represent a step towards the creation of an internal market for services. as guardian of the treaties, we also need to carry out our responsibility to ensure that what emerges is compatible with the fundamental freedoms as set out there and in the jurisprudence of the court of justice. in addition, any restrictions that member states may apply to service providers from other member states have to be judged against the criteria of non-discrimination, necessity and proportionality. this must be borne in mind, particularly when we look at whatever modifications are voted to article 16 and the freedom to provide services. i am sure most members will agree that this is the only way we can ensure that the real added value of this proposal is maintained. it will facilitate the cross-border provision of services and, at the same time, ensure that legitimate public policy considerations can be safeguarded. that is the balance we are all working for. it seems to me to be the essence of the compromise amendments on article 16. i confirm that, following the vote on thursday, the commission will bring forward a revised proposal with a view to facilitating a common position as soon as possible – hopefully, before the end of april. where there is broad consensus in this house on the amendments to be made, the commission will, subject to what i said earlier, base its modified proposals on these amendments. in the meantime, i look forward to today’s debate and, ultimately, the outcome of thursday’s vote. parliament has a real opportunity to show that, after two years’ work, it can provide the basis for taking forward in a consensual way an important but hugely controversial proposal. it is a challenge i believe most meps want to rise to. i urge you to continue to work for the consensus which i believe is within your grasp. you can deliver a better services directive which unleashes the enormous economic potential of the services sector. this is the basis on which we will be judged by the european businesses, workers, consumers and unemployed people that stand to benefit from it. (applause)
i would inform the house that there is a huge demonstration taking place outside this building at the moment. the police in strasbourg estimate that 30,000 people are gathered between the palais des expositions and the place de la république. i want to point out the peaceful nature of this demonstration. (applause) i'm told it's a very nice atmosphere with live music and a whole host of attractions. parliament was open until 3 p.m. i am sure that the massive presence of european citizens at the gates of our parliament will be a powerful stimulus for us to do our job responsibly. (applause) i would like to thank
opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, there is nothing wrong with wanting to reduce unjustified barriers to the free movement of services within the framework of a single market, as long as this is done in a responsible way, ensuring that it does not undermine social and environmental rights, and moving towards a european-wide harmonisation of services legislation. but as it stands, this proposal for a directive poses many risks, many of which have already been mentioned. as rapporteur for the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i will refer specifically to those relating to the gender dimension. the risks for women are mainly related to the creation of female employment and to their working conditions, as well as to their status as consumers of services. firstly, the implementation of the directive in its current form would undoubtedly have negative effects on female employment, especially in sectors with a predominantly female workforce. what is needed today, and this has been said on several occasions, is more investment in training and therefore more public spending, and not, as this directive suggests, simply more competition. it is also worrying that the commission has not carried out an analysis of the social and labour impact, especially in view of the effects we have seen in other previous liberalisations, which have led to the destruction of many jobs and in many cases have also eroded social cohesion. on the other hand, the liberalisation of health and social services could lead to a deterioration in social welfare and health care coverage in favour of private insurance, which would particularly affect women as the main consumers of these services. finally, the application of the often mentioned country of origin principle to service providers could lead to abuse and manipulation, since in the areas which are not harmonised at european level, which are the majority, this principle would allow the coexistence of several national regimes and would also allow the juxtaposition, where appropriate, of 25 national regulations, which would have the effect of consumers not knowing to whom and when to complain.
mr president, commissioner, throughout this afternoon much has been said about the need to open up the services market in the european union and also about the need to remove barriers in order to achieve, or put into practice, some of the objectives set out in the lisbon strategy. the services directive is not only necessary but essential. but what requirements should this directive, this text, have in order to fulfil the mission we have given it? in my view, it should first set out clear criteria which give legal certainty to all, consumers and businesses, and above all, which give legal certainty in particular to small and mediumsized enterprises, which make up the majority - 80 or 90% - of the business community in the european union. and it would also be necessary for this text, which is clear, and which is legally secure, to be applied in all the countries of the european union. i must say that in my view the text which was adopted in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection met these requirements. but i must say that at the moment i have my doubts that the compromise texts that have been agreed meet the requirements of clarity and legal certainty. finally, mr president, i would like to make a brief comment. throughout this afternoon there have been those who have tried to oppose two models in europe: those who claim to defend - and are the only defenders of their own - the european social model and those who defend the need for competitiveness and competition. i want to say that the best social policy is one which generates economic growth and job creation. i want to say here that the only danger that can be posed to the european social model is a european union without economic growth, based on old prejudices and unable to compete with other economies, because if we do not grow, it will be impossible for us to maintain our social policy.
mr president, i think mrs wallis made her point quite clearly when she said that the commission had done a bad job in this area. at the end of the last parliamentary term, we were suddenly given a piece of legislation equivalent to the package which mr delors had prepared for the liberalization of goods between 1988 and 1992. but this proposal for a directive from the commission does not even deal with the liberalization of services, because the central point is the liberalization of the labour market. in other words, article 16, with its country of origin principle, is not going to liberalise services; what it is aiming at is liberalising the labour market, because there are certain concessions granted by the then commissioner which go against social protection, environmental protection and consumer protection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i think that at the moment parliament is about to prepare a real directive on the liberalization of services. don't mix it with the labor issue, which is causing so much discussion right now. at the moment, the proposal for a directive on services which will be adopted on thursday, following the agreement between the two major political groups, will effectively allow the liberalisation of services in accordance with the normal procedures. we must remember that we already have a space in which there is liberalisation of services. services have been liberalised in transport, communications, audiovisual broadcasting and professional activities. it's about going down this road. if this directive is adopted by the council - and i hope, as mr stubb said, that the commission will accept the proposals of the european parliament - it will effectively allow services to be liberalised. and in addition, an amendment has been inserted among the amendments, according to which the commission, in agreement with the social partners, should present concrete proposals for the liberalization of services within five years. if the commission approves parliament's amendments, the council could follow suit and we could see the beginning of a genuine liberalisation of services.
mr president, i will begin by saying that i will vote in favour of the compromise, that i am much more satisfied with the compromise than with the original directive, and i will concentrate my speech on one subject: the reimbursement of the costs incurred by a registered citizen in one member state for medical services provided to him in another member state. if the president permits me to use the method of the case, i will use the example of the valencian community, although i could refer to any other region, an italian region, for example. every day we receive more tourists; every day more european citizens acquire a second residence there; every day we receive more citizens who come to our community for treatment, exclusively because of the quality of its medical services. this pressure is an attack on health services. a financial strain we can hardly bear. the court of justice has recognised on many occasions that, by application of articles 49 and 50 of the ec treaty and the regulations developing them, the member state providing medical services is entitled to be reimbursed by the state in which the citizen was registered. but in practice, the reality is that this right is not being respected, that this right is a mere rhetorical statement. the commission has seen this directive as a good instrument for giving effect to this right and has transposed it into article 23. at the moment i do not know what the situation is with article 23 or with the amendments to remove it. i shall simply state here my wish, my intention, that this article should remain as drafted by the commission. the commissioner should not just make a formal statement promising once again that the problem will be solved. we want this article to be adopted as it stands, and i will contribute to that by voting in favour.
mr president, i want to thank commissioner mccreevy and the members of my group, malcolm harbour, mrs thyssen and others, who have been fighting to defend a directive and who have had to see before their eyes how what we might consider to be the best aspects of it were falling and falling. i must say that sometimes politicians and those in power are lagging behind society, and i say this because there are two aspects of the directive which interest me very much and which, unfortunately, will not be reflected in any great measure: firstly, the recognition of qualifications and freedom of work for qualified people, and secondly, the health issue. i understand that in europe, when you go to work in another country, it is much easier to work in manual trades, in trades that are not recognized, even if you have high qualifications, because corporate selfishness does not allow another way out. this barrier has not been broken down. secondly, i want to talk about health. the directive included the possibility of reimbursement and the obligation to reimburse funds to those residents who receive medical care in another country. the mediterranean is full of millions of europeans who have gone south in search of sunshine and a new life, and yet they are not recognised as having the right to be reimbursed for the social services they receive, and above all for their health care. they are in a situation of uncertainty, they are in a difficult situation, but, above all, they are abandoned by the politicians. and i say the same about private medicine. i therefore support the integration of private medicine, because we have hundreds of clinics that are serving and helping the germans, the british, the swedes, who are in the south and in the mediterranean. these citizens have the right to be spoken to in their own language, to be served in their own language, to have services provided to them in their own language. this situation exists; society has created it, and we do not want to acknowledge it.
mrs. berès, this is not a question of order. i am sorry, i understand that you want to speak on this subject, but if you raise a point of order, the presidency has to point out that this is not the case and unfortunately it cannot continue to give you the floor.
we shall now proceed to the statements by the council and the commission on the right to freedom of expression and respect for religious beliefs.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is not my place to comment on a debate in this house. but i would like to thank the council very warmly for the strong message that has been sent out today - a commitment to values, but also a commitment to a tolerant dialogue with other civilizations and religions. i would also like to stress that it is of course very important for the council that all the institutions of the european union, the commission, the european parliament and the council too, agree on this and speak the same language. i think that's very important. the debate we have had here today will also facilitate the work of the council in the future. it has been said by the president of the commission, it has been said by many speakers, and i would like to repeat once again on behalf of the council what i said in my opening statement: any attack on a member state of the european union, any boycott against a member state of the european union is an attack on the european union, and we are of course in solidarity with denmark. i would also like to express this on behalf of the council. the council will be happy to take up a number of very interesting ideas. i agree with mr pöttering that it is also important to reach young people, especially young people, in schools but also in families, because education naturally begins in the family. i agree with mr pöttering that it is also important to avoid stereotypes and clichés in schoolbooks. i think it is therefore a good idea to make a check here. i can only agree with mr rasmussen on the importance of dialogue between civilizations and that we need an open, critical, respectful dialogue with each other. that seems very important to me. in fact, extremists must not triumph. that is a crucial statement to make here. of course, this is not about bowing to extremists for any advantage. we must be united and united here. i can only agree with mr cohn-bendit, and i said that in my statement, that i also believe that the responsibility of the press is its own responsibility, and that it is not a matter of governments telling the press what it can or cannot do. i know that over the years, over the decades, attempts have been made in the council of europe and in other institutions to establish codes of conduct, and they have all failed. i think it's about self-responsibility. this is very important. the council will continue to work towards a better understanding between civilizations and religious communities in the spirit in which this debate was conducted here today, but it will also speak clearly when it comes to rejecting violence and when it comes to rejecting the use of violence or boycotts against member states of the european union. we must show solidarity here. (applause from the centre)
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 10 a.m.
we now come to the statements by the council and the commission on iran's confrontation with the international community.
mr president, it appears that our strategy against the iranian regime has largely failed. nowadays in iran we are seeing the worst phase of the theocratic regime: executions are continuing, human rights are at their worst in iranian history; the mixture of religion and politics is heavier than in any other part of the world and the government is mobilising its own people and other peoples in the middle east against democracy. i think everybody accepts that developing nuclear power and nuclear weapons in iran would be dangerous for the whole region. for that reason, i agree that we must act carefully when we speak about nuclear power in the region, because we could give the iranian regime the ideal excuse to continue with its nuclear programme. iranian leaders could be tempted to say that if israel does not stop its nuclear programme, then iran has the right to develop its own. we have to be aware of the fact that when we are taking about the iranian regime we are also talking about syria and lebanon, the future of the peace process in israel and palestine, theocracy and democracy, human rights and universal values.
ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the republic of austria, it is a great honour for me to welcome you to our parliament. we are all pleased to have you here as president of the country holding the presidency of the council of the union. before you took office as president of your country, there were many members of this house - i count myself among them, and some of them greeted you in the corridors - whom we had already had the opportunity to meet in your long career as a distinguished member of parliament and president of the austrian parliament. in all your functions you have shown your unquestionable commitment to europe, to european values, to the cause of austria in europe and to europe in the world. your visit to the european parliament today gives us the opportunity to express our respect and to pay tribute to your remarkable personal achievements, as well as those of your country and to your special place in the history and culture of europe, and to the contribution austria has made to the recent development of the union and to the debate on its future. you are in office, mr president, at a very complex stage in european history, when we are faced with major challenges. we have dealt with some of them in the past few days here in the house. in a short time the austrian presidency has already shown that it is fully aware of the circumstances in which it is exercising the presidency of the council of the union and of the need to restore citizens' confidence in the european project by promoting integration and consolidating enlargement, and more specifically, to ensure that we make the best use of the period of reflection we are going through in order to, at the end of it, revitalize the constituent process. few countries are as well placed to meet these challenges as austria. austria was on the periphery of the union of fifteen, but now it is at the heart of the europe of 25, which will soon be a europe of 27 or more. you are increasingly at the heart of the great europe. the free movement of goods, workers and services is therefore not for austria and the austrians a mere formal provision of the treaty which does not affect them. on the contrary, it is a real everyday reality. you are at the crossroads of all europe. and that is why we are looking to you and your government, because we hope that in the coming months you will contribute to the advancement of the union in a spirit of integration based on the values and objectives which underpin us. mr president, we are fortunate to have you here with us and we hope that you will play a decisive role in the direction of europe's future. you can be sure - you and the austrian government - that parliament will work to defend and promote the common european objective, always bearing in mind the perception of it by the citizens of europe. and now, mr president, it is a great honour for me to ask you to speak before the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
federal president of the republic of austria. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament! first of all, i would like to thank you for the very kind introduction. i hope you're not putting too much pressure on us, but we'll try. a member of this house who is sympathetic to me - she is from austria - advised me a few days ago that i should not dwell too long on the opening words of my speech to the european parliament today. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. well, i'll take that advice. i hope it was good advice. (applause from the centre) but i will be allowed to say that i consider myself to be a sort of old parliamentary butcher who likes to breathe parliamentary air, because i have been a member of the austrian parliament for more than 30 years, as the president has said. a considerable part of these many years was spent in the period when the division of europe into east and west by an iron curtain seemed to be an almost immovable fact. true, the russian intellectual andrei amalrik had written a fascinating book entitled "can the soviet union survive 1984?" in which he predicted the collapse of the soviet empire. but at first, it seemed to have little to do with political realism. the year 1989 and the months before and after the fall of the berlin wall were, for me and probably for most of us, something of a political miracle. i have since believed in the possibility of political miracles, or at least in the possibility of achieving what at first seemed difficult or hopeless. the enthusiasm for the european project has been considerably strengthened and given an additional dimension during this period. the philosophy of the founding fathers of the european project, the idea of peace, and the ideal of free movement of persons and goods in the widest possible european space, gave millions of people who had to endure four decades of communist dictatorship after the end of the second world war the prospect of living in democracy and freedom. the eu is a global community of nations, and the eu is a global community of nations, and the eu is a global community of nations. it was not easy, but we have now achieved that, in 2004, and bulgaria and romania will probably follow shortly. croatia can also be mentioned in this context. this raises and discusses the question of europe's borders and identity. what has not been discussed and written about the borders of europe. but sometimes even complex questions can be answered with a relatively sober mind. the geographical boundaries of europe are easily defined in the west, north and south. they are unquestioned. and in the east, the geographical boundaries of europe are not identical with cultural-historical boundaries, nor with existing state boundaries. for the european project of tomorrow, we are therefore obliged to define meaningful political boundaries - which need not have an eternal value - and to develop and build partnerships across these boundaries through intensive cooperation with the neighbouring countries. in any case, both the fulfilment of the conditions for accession and the capacity of the european union to receive new members are important factors in determining the political boundaries of the european project. i am firmly convinced that the western balkan countries deserve a european perspective as well, provided they meet the accession criteria when they do, although it would be frivolous to give deadlines or dates now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that everyone has understood that the structures of the eu of 12 cannot work optimally, or even satisfactorily, for an eu of 25 plus. (applause from the centre) the european parliament has been asked to take part in the negotiations on the constitution of the european union, and the european parliament has been asked to take part in the negotiations on the constitution of the european union. the willingness to compromise has finally made it possible for all the governments and the european parliament to agree to a text which, although it did not meet all our wishes, is or would be valuable and useful for the european project as a whole. negative referendums in two european countries not only set the red light on at first, but also clouded the european mood and moods now play a major role in politics . we are now in a period of reflection, but these reflections must be made visible and audible so that people can agree, disagree and debate. my personal reflections lead me to believe that it would be a mistake to dismiss the draft constitutional treaty with a petty attitude and to accompany it to the graveyard, so to speak. (applause from the centre) i also think i understand that there are strong arguments against starting the whole procedure over again. i therefore share the view of those who believe that it is appropriate, after this period of reflection, to re-examine with renewed vigour the objectives of the constitutional treaty, which will also help to strengthen the democratic-parliamentary system of the eu. the austrian presidency is trying to do its best to help and prepare the ground for this. (applause from the centre) the keyword 'referendum' was also used earlier. i'm making a rather personal comment. i am not at all a supporter of so-called plebiscitary democracy. we are very, very conservative about referendums in austria, and for good reasons. but if we in the eu member states want to use or use the referendum for european decisions of very great importance on a case-by-case basis - that is, in individual countries - then i find the situation of holding a referendum in some eu countries and not in others, which i always - if the interpreters will forgive me - call a "referendum carpet", rather unsatisfactory. i personally thought it better to hold a european referendum with double majorities in exceptional cases of particular importance. (applause from the centre) if such an idea were to find a generally positive response in europe, it would of course still be necessary to reach agreement on further technical questions, for example on the question of how a decision to hold such a pan-european referendum can be reached. another topic of central importance - from the austrian point of view, perhaps even of central importance - which i would like to address is the question of the social dimension, the importance of the social component in european policy. the market economy has undoubtedly taken hold in europe. but acceptance of the market economy and also acceptance of the european project requires a market economy with a sufficient social component, that is to say a social market economy which does not regard the individual as a mere cost factor and which is committed to the principle of sustainability. the concept of "human capital" has always been suspicious to me. (applause from the centre) i admit that, and 19 million unemployed are simply - i think that is seen on a very broad basis - not acceptable. the reduction of unemployment, which hangs like a millstone on the neck of europe and on the prestige of europe, must be a national and european priority if we do not want to jeopardize the acceptance of the european model. europe must stand on two legs: a healthy economy and a healthy social symmetry. in this sense, i would also welcome it very much if you could actually - as i hear - find a compromise for tomorrow on the question of the services directive which also takes into account the concerns and discomforts of workers and many traders. practical answers to the question of control possibilities and enforcement powers also seem important, as i have learned from the discussions. at the beginning of the austrian presidency, a major european debate was invited to salzburg under the title 'sound of europe' - not without reference to mozart. first the politicians spoke, then the artists. of course, artists have taken it upon themselves to use clear words to mirror the imperfections of politics. not everything that was said convinced me. but one thing is certain: the cultural dimension of the european project is characterised by many unexplored treasures and has reserves that are still unknown. europe is now able to compete economically with the united states, but it is - as one might say - a dwarf militarily, and the latter is less irritating to me than a social imbalance. (applause from the centre) but should we not be more aware of how these relations look in the cultural realm? the sum and continuity of europe's cultural achievements from the iliad to the present day constitute an incredible wealth of treasures. we don't have to hide from anyone. let us also use this wealth to strengthen european identity, to make people aware of what we have in common, and let us not forget that modern art, the art of today, will be the cultural heritage of tomorrow. and what is true of art is also true of education and science. less than two weeks ago, the german president, horst köhler, who will shortly have the honour of speaking here, invited seven european heads of state to dresden for a dialogue. the meeting concluded with a discussion with students from more than a dozen countries. these students prepared very carefully for this meeting and presented us with a 'dresden manifesto' with very specific demands on the subject of europe. one of these demands was, for example, to increase spending on research and development - listen to me - not just to 3% of gdp, but even to 5%; certainly a very, very bold, perhaps utopian, goal to actually build a knowledge society in europe. and there was something else in this 'dresden manifesto' of young students, namely the call to build a common house of european contemporary history, in which the history of the 20th century and of today's europe is objectively reported and the european project is presented in a comprehensive way. i am briefly reporting on this today not only because i want to prove to these young people that their wishes and concerns are being taken seriously by presenting them even before this highest european forum, but because education and research are, as you all know, factors of production of a very special quality. you could say that these are utopian goals. but 'the existence of utopia is the condition for the utopia to cease to be a utopia' wrote martin walser once, and i think he is right in this statement. (applause from the centre) austria has now held the eu presidency for exactly one and a half months. we have therefore completed the first quarter in order to hand over the presidency to the trustworthy finnish authorities at the end of june, with whom we are in full agreement. the european parliament has been informed by chancellor schüssel exactly four weeks ago of the aims of the austrian presidency. i do not want to repeat anything that was said then, but i would just like to add that a lot has happened in these four weeks and that some things have developed. this applies, for example, to the balkans priority of the austrian presidency - on 20 february, negotiations on kosovo will begin in vienna - and to the preparations for the eu-latin america-caribbean summit in vienna in mid-may. we are concerned, however, about the enormous tensions and violence which the so-called mohammed cartoons are said to have provoked. two positions seem to be irreconcilably at odds: the basic principle of freedom of the press and of expression on the one hand, and the strong need to protect religious sentiments and values on the other. i consider consider consideration for religious feelings, for what is sacred to man in the truest sense of the word, to be an important element in the coexistence of men and peoples and not an unreasonable restriction of a fundamental right. (applause from the centre) if a so-called image ban is an essential element of a religion, then this principle should not be violated twice by not only breaking the image ban but also by reinforcing it by a caricatured depiction of the offensive taboo breaking. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the freedom of the press is guaranteed by the treaty and that the freedom of the press is guaranteed by the treaty. if billions of people are to live together peacefully on a planet, respect for the values of others and consideration for one another are not luxury items to be thrown away. that goes either way, by the way. (applause from the centre) on the other hand - and i want to make this very clear - the systematic promotion of violence as violence or as a kind of self-justification is certainly not an adequate response. (applause from the centre) i have a great deal of respect for those muslims who, for example, in austria, have expressed their protest very, very clearly but peacefully by means of clear but peaceful demonstrations. i condemn in the strongest terms the behaviour of governments or authorities who allow diplomatic missions and innocent people to be attacked and endangered. the willingness and the sincere intention to further intensify dialogue between cultures, between religions, between civilizations and above all between people remain important. i call on all concerned to do so. let me conclude with this: the european project, which has many things in common, will, i am convinced, be a success. we therefore have the right and the duty to build confidence that we will succeed in creating the europe of the future from the 'old europe' and the 'new europe'. i am very grateful to you for giving me the opportunity to promote, advocate and offer austria's cooperation as well as my own in this highest european parliamentary forum. (parliament adopted the resolution)
mr president, i should like to say a few words to thank you for your comments. you have heeded the advice given to you by the member. he has followed his advice and gone to the point: he has touched on the issues which are controversial today, today, and he has spoken very clearly about some guidelines which are necessary to continue building europe. i am sure that the applause you have received is a good indication of the interest with which parliament has followed your speech. i thank you again, mr president, for being here with us and i wish you the best of success in your country's presidency. (applause) the sitting was suspended at 12.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.
mr president, the spanish civil war ended in 1939. today, more than 60 years later, the wounds of that civil war, which ethnically had nothing to do with the war in bosnia and herzegovina and was much easier to explain than this one, are still closing in some towns and in some corners of spain. i say this so that some of you may understand a little better the enormous difficulty of real reconciliation, which has to take place between people, between families, on the streets and in the villages, and that, much more so when peace is only military, or has been at first a military peace only, an imposed peace. the bosnian process is therefore exemplary. it is absolutely exemplary that in such a short time we have a country at peace and with a project for the future, unstable, but a project after all. but it is obvious that dayton cannot be the final solution and that we must therefore clearly support this constitutional change to resolve all the remaining problems left by dayton, which at the time might have made sense as a patch, as a temporary solution, but which obviously do not contribute to building a common political project. that is what we must support: the building of a genuine common political project between all of us which must include - and i join in with what was said a moment ago - the youth, and the youth of bosnia and herzegovina and its relationship with europe, and therefore the flow of students between bosnia and herzegovina and the european union must be made much easier.
member of the commission. if i may start at the end, that was also the commission’s proposal in the letter which president barroso sent to parliament and the council. it is important that we recognise the need for the right balance between physical infrastructure on the one hand and intellectual infrastructure and other steps on the other, to stimulate innovation in regions which are today cohesion regions and less developed than the average in the european union. that is crucial. i recently attended a conference in poland with my colleague mrs hübner. it was a good conference, in which we were both able to explain to the audience how important it is to approach matters from both sides. at the end of the day, we have to be aware that if these recommendations are taken on board, it is in the hands of the member states. we have to understand how crucial it is that we balance this kind of support in practice. i am also fully aware that, in terms of differing levels of development, countries’ needs are not identical. so it is crucially important that this aspect is seriously taken into account and that this shift in attention is also taken into account.
member of the commission. i can only say that i fully agree with the honourable member’s remarks. it is crucial in all areas that we simply understand that we are working towards the same goal and only by pooling all financial resources together in a practical way can we truly achieve the changes.
member of the commission. regarding the revision of the seventh european union research and development framework programme, it is the commission’s intention to maintain the structure and essential philosophy of the initial proposal following the broad consensus that has already emerged in the discussions in parliament and the council. the principles in the approach to the revision were outlined at a meeting of parliament’s committee on industry, research and energy on 26 january 2006. smaller activity actions cannot be reduced as much as bigger ones, otherwise they lose their raison d’être. some lines have a budget that depends, for instance, on international commitments entered into by the european union or some other bodies. prioritisation within the themes and a high level of flexibility are also necessary. the cooperation part should remain the core of the programme. alongside the cooperation part, many other activities, such as infrastructure, smes and the mobility of researchers will be given due consideration in the revised proposal. in the context of the reduced budget, not only the breakdown but also the timing for the introduction of new initiatives may have to be considered. the framework programme aims to make european research more attractive and to create more mobility for researchers. that is to be boosted by the people programme, dedicated to structuring the mobility, training and career development of researchers throughout europe. this is essential to help create a single labour market of researchers, but it is not the only programme to create an attractive european research area.
commissioner, i appreciate your explanation. the reason for my question was to convey to you the concerns of our scientific community at the planned cuts in funding for european science and technology. although we must wait until the negotiations are concluded, it is essential that we know as soon as possible what ideas you are working on to adapt the framework programme to the least possible allocation of resources, and we are grateful for your explanations. it is essential both to continue our parliamentary work and to be able to inform our researchers, who want to get out of this situation of uncertainty, which has been going on for too long, about the future of their research projects. i also wanted to ask you, in particular, whether it will continue to be a priority to make the european union a truly attractive area for researchers. it is a matter of great concern to us and i wanted to ask you if you could tell us more about it.
mr president, commissioner, tomorrow the european parliament will adopt mr kindermann's report and with it it will be giving the commission and the council a clear message on how we want the future action plan for our forests to be approached. among all the ideas we have worked on in the committee on agriculture and rural development, i would like to highlight as innovative the proposals concerning the prohibition of the requalification of the use of land affected by fires. this measure, which we are already implementing with remarkable success in my country, spain, has the great virtue of discouraging those who destroy our forest heritage for the sole purpose of speculating later on the land. i therefore believe that the future european forestry plan must clearly focus on a policy of preserving our forests and on the enhancement and exploitation of the innumerable resources that are obtained from forest soil. but i would also like to say that spanish members and many members from southern countries have long been calling for a common forestry policy as a means of managing this heritage, which benefits the union as a whole. so i think there is no mistake in the approach: protecting the forests is good for the north and good for the south. we would have liked to have had some of the indications we have made on the mediterranean forest taken into account. we all agreed that forests play a fundamental role and provide us with resources which are closely linked to the future of the union and to the objectives we all set ourselves in lisbon. the multifunctional role of forests must be enhanced from a common approach. we therefore invite you, commissioner, to consider regulating in a common way what we consider to be a good and a heritage for the whole european union.
mr president, i regard this report as very positive and i congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague mr kindermann, very warmly on his work. the spanish socialists particularly identify with this text because it recognises the importance of the forestry sector in the european union, based on criteria which go beyond purely economic criteria, and also because it stresses the need to arrive at a single interpretation of the concept of forest. it also makes special mention of fires and disaster management, which are the two major problems of spanish forests, and supports the general approach and the results of the ministerial conference on the protection of forests in europe, a process in which spain plays a major role, as it is one of the four states that are leading the way. and also because i think that mr kindermann's report brings new elements worth taking into account, such as - and this element seems to me very important - the need to facilitate coordination and cooperation, both between the commission's units and between the commission's units and the member states, or the intensification in the fields of research, training and communication to the public, which are fields which are already in line with the spanish forestry plan. i am very grateful to mr kindermann for accepting my amendment on the fundamental role of forests as regulators of the water cycle, but i still miss an explicit mention of the importance of community intervention to help maintain and, if necessary, compensate for the environmental services that forests provide to society as a whole. in this respect, although i believe that we should pay attention to the economic and environmental importance, i already announce to the commissioner and the rapporteur that i will continue to work towards a genuine community policy in this field.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, mrs mcguinness, the report we are discussing today contains the guidelines which will guide the member states in drawing up their national strategic plans. mr castiglione has already made a very clear point: the measures in his annex will be a guide to the unification of criteria, and this unification of criteria will help to ensure the harmonious application of the new rural development regulation, but it will also allow each member state to take its own decisions with regard to the principle of subsidiarity. we spanish socialists are pleased to see the multifunctional role of agriculture mentioned and we are also pleased that the conservation and protection of soil has been given priority, because soil is an environmental resource which must necessarily be considered alongside water, air and biodiversity. this is necessary to halt the processes of erosion and desertification which are at the origin of the catastrophes we have already mentioned, such as forest fires and floods. in addition, this care of the soil allows us to maintain good agricultural and environmental conditions. i am particularly pleased, mrs mcguinness, that the integration of women into the labour market is reflected as a horizontal priority, expressly mentioned as such. i am also pleased that the mention of creating new jobs has been supplemented by the consolidation of existing jobs. as regards the need to develop services to fix the population to the territory and to receive new inhabitants, the spanish socialists agree that this must be the case and, moreover, we agree that a fair share of the structural funds should be allocated to these areas in order to guarantee that much-needed balance between the development of rural areas and that of urban areas. it is clear, madam commissioner, that good investment in infrastructure would help to improve the quality of life in these areas and to counteract depopulation. i live in a rural area, i have been mayor of a rural area and i can tell you that nothing is more necessary or more motivating for the inhabitants of these areas.
we take note of your comment, although it is not a question of order. the services are preparing the response to a conflict of competence between the committee on fisheries and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. until this conflict is resolved, i can hardly convey the result.
we shall now proceed to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
we have received information from the secretariat of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the basis of which the vote was prepared and which states that the adoption of amendment no 72 means that amendment no 297 will be rejected. obviously, if the rapporteur does not agree, we will listen to her.
we are following the rapporteur's instructions. amendment no 297 is put to the vote by roll call. - before the vote on amendment no 357:
we do not see any inconsistency in the order of voting, but the rapporteur can tell us if she shares your opinion.
it is not a withdrawn amendment. the article to which the honourable member refers is therefore not applicable.
ladies and gentlemen, this is not a question of political debate but a question of procedure. the presidency wants to be sure that it is proceeding in accordance with our rules of procedure and the appropriate legal interpretations. after consulting the services, i must say that the interpretation we consider appropriate is that of mrs gebhardt. consequently, we shall maintain the order of voting as planned.
the presidency is not aware of the agreements between the political groups. it takes into account only those comments of the rapporteur which contribute to the proper conduct of the votes. the others are not receipts. - before the vote on the amended proposal for a directive:
the voting is closed.
the explanations of vote are closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr enrico letta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on community statistics on the structure and activity of foreign subsidiaries (com (2005) 0088 - c6-0084/2005 2005/0016 (cod)) (a6-0332/2005).
member of the commission. mr president, i simply want to reiterate my thanks to the rapporteur, mr letta, and to mr purvis and mr dos santos, for their speeches and for their attitude of cooperation in order to achieve what i believe unites us all, namely a procedure which will allow the rapid adoption of this regulation for the reasons we all agree on: the importance of being able to have, as european institutions, in multilateral trade negotiations or in any other type of strategy, data which we do not have and which our competitors have been using for some time. i would like to reiterate what i said in my first speech on the problems of comitology, to which we all referred, namely that we hope that the work of the austrian presidency will lead to a solution in this half-year which will be acceptable and satisfactory to all of us. i would therefore like to reiterate the commission's willingness to take account of the difficulties arising during the current period until such time as a final agreement is reached, but i would also ask that these problems not interfere with the early adoption of this regulation, if possible at first reading.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. (the sitting was suspended at 1 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, commissioner, first of all, the opportunity to undertake this report is quite large at this time, since we already have quite a few years of accumulated history in the international monetary fund and other multilateral bodies in regulating the conditions of the world economy. and, in my opinion, this is a success story. a relative success, as everyone else, ladies and gentlemen, but a success in the end, as the operation of the international monetary fund has been, which today makes us forget global financial crises such as those we have experienced in the history of developed countries and in developing countries. the imf's emphasis on macroeconomic stability is a key criterion for promoting equal opportunities in economic development for all. we cannot understand economic development today unless it is based on a healthy balance of payments, control of inflation and balanced budgets in developing countries. these balances, these healthy balances of public finances, are essential to create an atmosphere of confidence and, in short, to enable a state to make progress and to develop higher levels of welfare and, in turn, to promote economic growth. from this point of view, our report must clearly focus on stability. as regards the presence of the european union, we must not forget the problems we are currently facing in the european union with regard to coordination, and therefore, although in the medium and long term we should strive to have a single voice in the monetary fund and in other multilateral bodies regulating the world economy, we must be prudent and modest, as mr purvis said, in thinking that today we have a representation which we must exercise in different categories, depending on our countries. it is also important, as in the case of spain, that we share this seat with a large part of central america and ibero-america, which also makes us more aware of the economic development of a fundamental area, such as latin america, in order to balance global development and not to frustrate the possibilities of development, of equal opportunities, for these countries. this report is therefore an opportunity for this parliament to express its views and, in that sense, i hope, we are also working to achieve the widest possible consensus and that this report will make a positive contribution to what the definition of multilateral bodies in modern economies should be.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the ceasefire of 2002 has been broken many times, hundreds of people have died in the last two years, the number of internally displaced persons is in the thousands, kidnappings, torture and various abuses continue to occur, and the expectations created after the tsunami of december 2004 to take advantage of this disaster to deal constructively with the internal conflict have been repeatedly frustrated. in addition, none of the human rights investigation mechanisms seems to have been implemented satisfactorily. the norwegian authorities' tenacity in facilitating a peace process in such difficult circumstances is therefore to be commended. a peace process that is a new lesson in the importance of investing in building peace, rather than in arming war. if you look at the investments that europe has made in recent times, not just in the country but in the region in general, you will see that we have invested a lot in arming war and much less - to say the least - in arming and facilitating peace. i hope, therefore, that these talks, which will take place next week and which i hope will ultimately lead to a process not only of peace but of building a just and lasting peace, will really be an opportunity to be copied in other models, to be assimilated to other peace processes, above all by putting into practice what mrs lynne has already said: all the actors involved in the conflict must be involved; no one can be excluded, not even those whom one considers to be the greatest enemies.
author. - mr president, in these emergency sessions when we usually deal with the violation of human rights in the world, we have long since failed to address the responsibility of the united states. and while the list of topics to be discussed would be endless, i am pleased to have the opportunity to at least address one of the most ominous embarrassments of humanity and, in particular, of our time: guantanamo. after four years, the approximately 500 people currently held at guantanamo do not have the minimum procedural guarantees required in a democracy that respects the rule of law and international human rights standards. the european union cannot continue to be complicit in its silence in maintaining what is in fact nothing but a torture centre, where even the death penalty is applied arbitrarily. the existence of this centre is a huge stain on the history not only of the united states but of all those who, from outside, are silent and tolerate it. and it further fuels the imperialist, warmongering and totally disrespectful image of the rights and freedoms that the current us administration claims to defend throughout the world. it is therefore in no way justifiable, and even less so for reasons of combating terrorism. i am therefore glad that this parliament has finally dared to call for the closure of guantanamo in such a unanimous way. i now only have to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to go one step further, to complete the work and to demand a clear investigation of what is happening in the occupation of iraq, condemning in particular the events at abu ghraib.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 16 february 2006.
the article you have cited, mr president, did not support your intervention. you are giving the wrong interpretation of the rules of procedure. i have let him speak so that there would be no misunderstanding by the fact that i cut him off. your question of order was not appropriate. you have made an imputation to the president, accusing him of leaking a document that was in the possession of no less than 30 people. their interpretation of the procedure adopted is also completely wrong. the conference of presidents has discussed it, will continue to discuss it and, in due course, you will be fully informed of the decisions it reaches. i would ask you to choose carefully the article you are referring to next time you raise a point of order, because if you do not, the president will not give you the floor.
mr schulz, we will look for the appropriate article, but we are not faced with a request for confidence from the president, at least not yet, so that the conference of presidents will continue to work, the groups will participate in the debate and the group chairmen will be spokesmen for the positions of their groups. i am sure that we will all be able to put forward proposals to improve the functioning of our parliament. this is the intention of all of us, starting with mr stevenson - if i may say so - and with your president.
i should now like to make a statement on two recent dates. on 8 march, international women's day was celebrated throughout the world and i would like to take this opportunity to express to parliament, on behalf of all members, i believe, our rejection of the violence that police forces have used against a group of women who were peacefully demonstrating for their rights in tehran. in the heat of this event, which parliament condemns, i want to express our solidarity with all the women of the world who are demonstrating and peacefully demanding their rights. it is an important occasion for us to reflect on the problem of inequality, not just on 8 march, but every day of the year. i would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the committee on women's rights and gender equality in our parliament, which has marked this day with a very important and very timely subject. in fact, in view of the forthcoming football world championship, our committee on women's rights has organized a seminar, which has been widely disseminated, on the subject of forced prostitution in the context of international sporting events. and let us also remember that we are celebrating the second european day of the victims of terrorism and that, on this occasion, this year, as in the previous year, our parliament has held a ceremony in memory of the victims of terrorism. the ceremony was attended by 600 pupils from various schools in london and brussels who expressed their views on terrorism in a rich debate in which several of our members took part and which was chaired by mr lambrinidis, vice-president of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, whom i would like to thank for having taken my place at this event. i think we should remember the tragic terrorist attack in spain, which took place two years ago and which claimed the lives of 192 people, and the one in london in july last year. we must continue to fight terrorism in all its forms and our parliament, which has always fought for the dignity of human beings, is fully committed to a fight which no european country can win in isolation. only european democrats united can face this threat. i want to remind you what we've done this weekend on this ground. (applause) i would like to thank
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 9 february 2006. the following amendments have been proposed:tuesday:the group of the european people's party has asked that the vote on mr cottigny's report, scheduled for tomorrow, be moved to wednesday. does anyone wish to explain this request from the ppe group?
mr schulz, as you know, there is no regulation on the time allocated to the other institutions. there is nothing in the rules of procedure that says how much they have to say and they are usually given 'free rein', that is, they say what they think is appropriate. the members are not, however, who are very limited in time. i think that the commission and the council have taken note of mr schulz's request. i'm sure they'll act accordingly. i think that at this point on the agenda there are three statements and replies, so we are talking about 50 minutes for these statements and replies. given the tight timetable, i am sure that the two institutions will limit themselves to allow members time to speak.
thank you very much, mr cohn-bendit. if i have understood mr schulz correctly, he was speaking about wednesday afternoon and you have referred to the morning. in any case, we will speak to the commission to ensure that its explanations are adapted to the time available. (the order of business is hereby established)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. i should like to say that we will not be able to give the floor to all those who have asked for it, because we would need more than the 30 minutes available. i therefore inform you that i will give priority to those members who have not spoken in this part-session in previous partsession and i will ask all of you to adhere strictly to the minutes so that the number of members who will not be able to speak for lack of time is not too large. let us try to get everyone to speak and i will start - i insist - with those who were not able to speak at previous sessions.
indeed, madam member, our colleagues, when they go on an observation mission, do not go on their own, they do not represent themselves, but represent this institution. there may have been a misinterpretation on the part of the commissioner and i am sure she understands that too. when i have the opportunity to speak to her, i will remind her of that, but i do not think it is necessary, because i am sure that the commissioner is well aware of the role of our parliament.
mr president, as a socialist and a defender of human rights, and therefore a militant fighter against the death penalty, i share the grief of the family of pablo ibar, a spanish citizen, who was sentenced to death by the florida courts on charges of murder in 2000. on february 2, the supreme court of that state annulled the death penalty for the alleged co-author of the murder, after ruling that there were errors in the previous trial and disqualifying the evidence presented against the convicted as insubstantial. however, the expectations aroused at the time vanished on 9 march, when the supreme court itself upheld the death penalty for european citizen pablo ibar. the socialist group calls on the competent authorities in the united states to find a solution to this situation, which is as unjust as it is inhuman. i would also ask you, mr president, and the president of the delegation for relations with the united states, to address the authorities concerned, on the one hand, to reiterate our well-known position that we are radically opposed to capital punishment and, on the other hand, to call for justice to be done in the case of pablo ibar, who was wrongly convicted, as the exoneration of the man who was declared to be a co-author of the same alleged crime seems to prove.
i hope i am not mistaken in my answer, but the chairs were empty because the conference of presidents had decided not to appoint representatives of parliament to fill them and to ask the commission for clarification on the status, the status, the reason for being and the role that parliament's representatives were to play in this technical committee. until we have that clarification, the conference of presidents has decided not to appoint the representatives of parliament. so it was not that there were no representatives, but that those who were to attend had not been appointed.
thank you very much, mr. congressman. i would like to stress that the conference of presidents decided to ask mr barroso to explain the reasons for the presence of members in these groups and mr barroso will explain this to the conference of presidents. you may disagree with the decision that was taken; i am merely communicating it.
mr president, i would like to share with this house my satisfaction and relief at the decision taken by the general motors board of directors on 15 february last to manufacture the new opel meriva model at the figueruelas factory in zaragoza, thus definitively eliminating the risk of relocation that has been planned for months for the 7 600 workers and the many more subsidiaries. i would like to congratulate the workers on their commitment to productivity, the spanish managers and engineers on their good management, and the regional government, with its president, marcelino iglesias, at the head, on their commitment. but this is not enough. the competitor was the gliwice factory in poland, which offered lower labour costs as the only counterpart. the relations established in recent months give us a better understanding of the frustration of polish workers and lead us to support the proposal of the european workers' forum that the agila model should be produced in gliwice. as a compensation, the spanish government has just opened up the possibility of free movement for workers, but that is not enough either. what we need is a european industrial policy.
thank you very much, mr. chruszcz. there are 15 other members who will not be able to speak - i am sorry - because of lack of time. this closes this spot.
the next item is the joint debate on - the oral question to the commission on forced prostitution at world sporting events, by anna záborská, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-0006/2006 - b6-0008/2006), - the oral question to the commission on eu action against human trafficking and launching a day of action, by karin riis-jørgensen and elizabeth lynne, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-0011/2006 - b6-0011/2006), - the oral question to the commission on eu action against human trafficking and the establishment of a day against human trafficking, by tamara iztrudyer, on behalf of the group of the european free alliance/european free breeders' alliance (o-0017/2006 - b6-0014/2006), - the oral question to the commission on eu action against human trafficking and the launching of a day of action, by karin riis-jørgensen and elizabeth lynne, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-0011/2006 - b6-0011/2006 - b6-0011/2006), - the oral question to the commission on eu action by mrs sylvia záborská, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-o-o-0006/2006 - b6-006/2006 - b6-006/2006 - b6-006-06-06-06) - the oral question to the committee on human rights of the committee on women, by mrs karin-right, by mrs lynda karin, on action against traffering and the european union, by mrs ladies and minorities, mrs ladies and young people, mrs ladies and young people, mrs ladies and
member of the commission. i would like to thank you, mr president, and the members of the european parliament for your very positive comments. the european commission recognises and shares that the problem of relocation and the loss of related jobs is a matter of serious concern. the commission, in agreement with the member states, made it clear at the last meeting at humpton court that social protection and the protection of workers' rights are an integral part of european values. in a global environment, each company makes the final decision on the establishment or relocation of its business activities independently. such a decision is determined by many factors. for example, according to the available data, it appears that the presence or absence of a skilled workforce, the availability of various infrastructures and the level of administrative red tape are often decisive factors. the proper functioning of the internal market enables firms to adapt their production processes to the opportunities presented. this dynamic aspect of the internal market leads to long-term benefits for all regions. as i pointed out earlier in my introductory speech, the commission has proposed and implemented measures to limit any use of the structural funds for purposes not linked to the sustainable development of any region. the commission also proposed the creation of a globalisation adjustment fund, a proposal which was supported by the european council last december. finally, i would like to stress that the commission is encouraging better data collection and further studies on the benefits and costs of relocation.
author. mr president, the world water forum is taking place at a very important time, because more than two billion people on the planet do not have access to safe drinking water or sufficient sanitation and more than two million people die every year from the scarcity of water, which is a basic element for life. water needs to be shared more equitably, but at the same time the amount of freshwater is decreasing year by year because of climate change and the destruction of ecosystems such as wetlands, forests, rivers and streams. we must react with strong and concrete measures, with financial commitments, with a global water convention, by promoting a good water culture. international standards are needed to allow more efficient water management. in the european union we have to apply the water framework directive in all our activities, in cooperation and in bilateral agreements. we also need to promote good agricultural practice. we must apply the same european law when we are outside europe and we must ensure that the amount of water obtained in a complex way through ecosystems, through the fight against climate change, is conserved in the medium and long term. this is not achieved by cement alone or by large-scale construction, but by comprehensive and complex policies.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the very good work done on the report we are discussing today. in particular, i would like to thank mr machakis for his extremely constructive and substantial contribution to it. i should like to briefly refer to the main purpose and objectives of the mercury strategy. the main objective of the strategy is to reduce mercury levels in the environment and human exposure to mercury, and in particular to methyl mercury in fish. mercury and its compounds are highly toxic to humans, ecosystems and wild birds. high doses can be fatal in humans but even relatively limited doses can have serious effects on human health. the strategy has the following objectives: reducing the quantities of mercury available by limiting the supply and demand of mercury; addressing the long-term problem of limiting mercury surpluses and stocks to products still in use or stored in recent years; protection against exposure to mercury; improving understanding of mercury problems and of the mandatory uses; supporting and promoting international action to address mercury. in recent decades, many actions have been taken at community level to address the mercury problem and to reduce emissions, uses and exposure to mercury. at the same time, this and whatever we have done so far is not enough. there is still much to be done. in preparing the strategy, the commission paid particular attention to identifying the most important aspects of the mercury problem which remain and the areas where further action by the european union could be taken. the main areas examined and for which action is proposed in the short term are: the supply of mercury to the market and its export; mercury surpluses from the chloride alkali industry; the use of mercury in measurement and control equipment; mercury emissions from coal combustion. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the mercury problem is not eliminated. the current levels are due to past mercury emissions and it will take time for these levels to stabilise even if there are no new mercury emissions. i would also like to stress the importance of international action, in conjunction, of course, with initiatives taken at european union level. mercury is a global pollutant and the commission intends to organise an international conference on 26 and 27 october this year in brussels to strengthen the international capacity to deal with this issue. in conclusion, i would like to thank mr machakis and parliament as a whole again for their work and to reiterate my commitment to helping to shape even stronger european union policies for better health and environmental protection.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, we share your objectives, mr matsakis, both the elimination of mercury emissions at european level and the ban on exports of mercury, which, like its components, is a highly toxic substance for humans and the environment, as has already been said here. although the european union is the world's leading exporter of mercury and a ban on its exports will contribute considerably to curbing trade and reducing global reserves of this metal, i call on the council to continue the european union's participation in international forums and activities, to make bilateral commitments and to undertake projects with third countries, especially in the field of technology transfer, to tackle the problem of mercury pollution. in this context, the adoption of legally binding measures at international level would be desirable. i also ask the commission to raise public awareness by organizing information campaigns on the health risks of exposure to mercury and the environmental problems that this substance can cause, since i fear that citizens are still not sufficiently informed about its toxicity. another aspect which particularly concerns me is the use of mercury in the form of thiomersal in vaccines, as it could have harmful effects on human health, and we should take note of the fact that countries such as denmark have not used it in childhood vaccines since 1992. i am glad that the council conclusions recognize the environmental and social problems resulting from the closure of the long-running mercury mines in almadén, as well as the possibility of using these almadén mines as a deposit for the safe storage of existing stocks of metallic mercury or secondary metallic mercury resulting from european industry, never from its waste, thus taking advantage of existing infrastructure, manpower and know-how. i can only thank the rapporteur and all the other rapporteurs, because they have done a really excellent job.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr matsakis and also the other rapporteurs on their excellent work. mercury is a toxic element with negative health effects and therefore the commission proposes that it be safely contained, while reducing its use and ending its trade, but as the communication rightly says in point 9 there are many gaps in its effects on human health, on how it spreads or accumulates in the environment, on its toxicity and on the sensitivity of ecosystems. i think it is important and a priority that all these questions be investigated and that decisions be taken on a scientific basis and not on mere assumptions, more or less alarmist, amplified by the media. the only region in europe that produces mercury, although its mines are now closed, is almadén. this region was very prosperous, thanks to the mercury that was extracted from its mines since the time of the romans, and it is now depressed, also because of the mercury. it should therefore be compensated by specific measures, infrastructures and support which can partially mitigate the effects of the measures taken. this is where, among other things, the safe storage of liquid mercury to be withdrawn from the market should be located. the chloroalkaline industry has signed an agreement to completely end the use of mercury by 2020. this agreement must be respected and its implementation monitored. as a matter of curiosity, i would simply like to say that i have lived in the almadén region, that i have often taken mercury in my hands, that i have had mercury amalgam fillings, that i have removed myself for aesthetic reasons, and i can assure you that i have not had any health problems, nor do the people who live there, nor the animals, nor the plants, because, as the toxicologists say, the poison is in the dose.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to pay tribute to dr matsakis for his report and for the motion for a resolution with which he has assisted our committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and i would like to thank the members of that committee for their contributions, which have improved the text we are now debating. for more than 22 years i was a member of parliament in spain for the province of ciudad real, where almadén and its mines are located and where, for the last 20 centuries, most of the mercury extracted in europe and the world has been produced. this region, which has been going through a profound process of diversification, will be affected once again by the prohibitions imposed by the community strategy on mercury in the production and export of the metal. the process of drawing up dr matsakis' report has been followed with interest in almadén and its region, and the text of the resolution, which we shall be adopting tomorrow, meets the expectations of my countrymen by recommending that they receive significant compensation from the european union to ensure the social and economic revival of those territories. the idea that the mercury-metal storage facility envisaged in the community strategy should be located in almadén, as the experience, technology and manpower required to manage this facility with the necessary guarantees are there, has also been welcomed. i would like to take this opportunity to invite you, commissioner, to come with us to almadén, with dr matsakis and myself, and to witness the splendid beauty of the landscape, as well as the affection of the people and their european enthusiasm for progress. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your understanding and your solidarity.
member of the commission. mr president, of course your invitation is welcome. first of all, let me thank all of you for your very constructive remarks. the contribution of the european parliament is very important and only by close cooperation between the institutions will we be able to secure for the european union effective ways of tackling the negative effects of mercury on human health and the environment. i would therefore like to thank you for your support for your report and for your comments on the strategy. i am particularly pleased to note that parliament shares our views on the main actions of the mercury strategy. this is a very strong basis for the adoption of new concrete measures to implement the strategy. these measures are already in the preparation stage. i would like to say a few words, in the interests of brevity, on the points raised by mr kallahan: the environmental impact of mercury remains significant and relevant alternatives exist. the commission has also proposed a ban on the use of mercury in these measuring devices, since there is no problem of adaptation for small producers. on the subject of dental amalgams, the commission will ask the relevant medical group to study new measures and will seek the opinion of the scientific committee on health and environmental risk. in conclusion, i would like to thank parliament once again, and in particular mr machakis, for his very positive attitude towards the strategy. the commission wishes to continue this excellent cooperation with parliament on this very serious matter.
we're closing the debate. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the free movement of workers and transitional periods by istván szent-iványi, graham watson and ignasi guardans cambó, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-0013/2006 - b6-0012/2006).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all, the accession treaty provides for a nuanced approach and clear solutions which allow both the long-term residents directive and the transitional arrangements for the free movement of workers to be applied in full legal compatibility. let me explain this in detail. first of all, there is the question of first-time access to the labour market. in such a case the accession treaty – during any period in which any old member state applies transitional measures – provides that it must give preference to nationals of the new member states over third-country nationals as regards access to the labour market. the second situation concerns nationals from the new member states who are already resident in an old member state. in that case the accession treaty again provides that nationals of new member states who already reside and work in a member state applying transitional measures must not be treated in a more restrictive way than those from third countries also resident and working in that member state. this means that where by virtue of the directive, a third-country national has been given long-term status, the accession treaty operates so as to ensure that the old member states must treat citizens from new member states who are already legally resident and working in the territories at least according to the standards guaranteed in the directive – thus including the right of free access to the labour market. the same logic also applies in the third situation covered by the directive: movement by long-term residents between member states. here the rule is the following: workers from a third country who are long-term residents in a new member state should not be treated more favourably than nationals of that state. in other words, in the situation of mobility to a second member state, an old member state cannot give free access to its labour market to a long-term resident who is a third-country-national if and where the same free access is not given to a national of a new member state. the same applies to equivalent situations between two old member states. in both cases of mobility between member states, if both the national of a new-member-state and the long-term resident are subject to national measures such as a work permit, community preference would operate in favour of the national of the new member state, who is a european citizen. from the above, it results that the rights provided by the directive can be reconciled with the provisions of the accession treaty. there is no need to submit proposals to change the rules, because it is impossible to have less favourable treatment for citizens of the new member states of europe. the commission agrees, however, that there is a need for better information clarifying the issue to be sent to the member states and i intend to do this by sending all member states a letter clearly stating the existing rules.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr commissioner, i believe that, regardless of the responses to what is happening or the interpretations of the directive, this is also a good opportunity to speak out, and i join those who think that this problem will not be solved until we have finally ended this transitional period, which hopefully will end as soon as possible, so that all europeans are equal and we make the mobility of workers an important tool for our competitiveness, for our employment and for the construction of the european union. i therefore join those who call for an open door policy, the sooner the better, and i think that in this sense it is very interesting - and as a spaniard i welcome it - that the government of my country has announced that it is lifting the restrictions that existed during this transitional period. we have done so, commissioner, because we are a country with a certain experience, being a country of immigration and a country of emigration. in addition, in these two years it has once again become clear that these restrictions imposed on the countries of central and eastern europe by the europe of the fifteen must be lifted, for reasons of justice and solidarity, but also for reasons of rationality and common sense, today more than ever, in this year of mobility. first, we look at justice and solidarity. we spaniards also had seven years of transition and we felt humiliated and unfairly treated by a situation that was not justified, because it was shown that a lot of those xenophobic and racist speeches were wrong. there was no flood of workers. spanish workers have never created problems in the host countries; on the contrary. and we have seen in the last two years that the same thing is happening to workers in the new member states: not only do they not create problems, but they are solving labour shortages, improving their skills and improving the overall idea of europe. that is why, commissioner, i am asking that the study carried out by the european commission should help to ensure that more countries lift the restrictions and that the day comes when europe is truly a europe of all european citizens and all european workers have the same rights, because that is the logical thing to do, because it is very good for mobility and because europe needs mobility if it is to win the battle of productivity and competition against the united states. we need to create that great market of free citizens in which there will be no problems and which will also allow us to improve our competence, improve our capacity and improve the lives of our citizens, so that, in addition to solving the concrete problems, we try to have a little vision of the future, commissioner, to remove those barriers.
this item is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
i declare the 2005/06 session of the european parliament closed.
member of the commission. mr president, i shall firstly express my thanks to parliament and particularly to its rapporteur, mr paasilinna, for his very detailed report. he has been working very closely with the other rapporteurs and has gathered their opinions. to all of them i express my thanks. it is very encouraging to see that parliament shares the commission’s main concerns and the policy priorities for the information society over the next five years. as the various committees and rapporteurs have shown, it is very difficult to predict today how the information society of tomorrow will look, and that is why we opted for a broad and ambitious strategic framework, instead of a detailed action plan, because this strategic framework allows for review and adjustments in response to emerging challenges. the i-2010 framework thus seeks to provide a future-proof policy framework. i am very pleased to note that parliament and the commission share a position on the key elements of i-2010: commitments to make ict legislation forward-looking and responsive to the changes brought about by converging. so, it must be technologically neutral and supportive of competition, and at the same time member states must implement fully the existing regulatory framework which, unfortunately, is not always the case, but you know that i am fighting to get that done. we see a similar need for the approach to spectrum management which can respond to rapid technological developments and changes in demand and which is supported by regulators, operators and others involved. here we will have a lot of work in the next few months. our shared priorities also include support for the eu’s creation and distribution of european content, the protection of intellectual property, the promotion of security and the protection of users against harmful content. the commission and parliament are also of one mind when it comes to urging member states and businesses to invest more into ict research, and we see the same need for ensuring appropriate financial resources for ict in fp7 and cip. we also agree on the need to promote and protect citizens’ rights in the information society and that is why we need to raise the awareness of citizens on how their rights, freedom of expression, privacy, personal data protection and right to receive or communicate information can be exercised in the information society. together with parliament i would urge the member states to use their national reform plans in order to address their own ict priorities, to improve their public services, such as e-government initiatives, where i see a lot of progress in the move to invest more in the exploitation of ict in public-sector services. like parliament, i am worried about the digital divide. we have to ensure that everyone can participate; not only people who live in cities; not only people who have a certain level of education; not only young people. this is a very strong goal and an opportunity to be seized. we will work together on steps to bridge this digital divide. when i refer to ‘digital divide’, i also mean the promotion of digital literacy for all, which leads me to the participation of women in all ict-related fields of academia and business. there is good news: our statistics show that gender is no longer the main factor in the digital divide; that factor is diminishing very rapidly. i am encouraged by this, but that does not mean that we should not do anything to solve the residual problem. we have to work together and continue our efforts to promote greater gender balance in ict-related fields such as science. in many governments, initiatives are being taken to that end. i agree with you on the crucial importance of the internet for an economy based on information. that is why the eu also played an active role in brokering the agreement on the progressive internationalisation of internet governance at the world summit on the information society in tunis last year. in my view, that is the best approach to internet governance. the commission, together with parliament, will proceed by organising a forum later this year. i am also stepping up monitoring activities in the field of media pluralism and will shortly publish a working paper on that issue. the working paper is going to be a stock-taking exercise to capture the wide range of different circumstances across the member states, but at the same time – and i keep reiterating this – my views on ownership and media pluralism have not changed. ownership issues are a matter for member states: they must take their responsibilities and exercise them in an effective manner in line with the subsidiarity principle. that is why the commission simply supports the member states; it does not dictate to them in this important area of national life. having said that, i promised you that i would follow this up and cooperate with you in that regard. i will shortly be proposing measures to that effect to this house. concerning your call to speed up the e-inclusion initiative – which is planned for 2008 – i urge you not just to see the date of 2008, because 2008 is the time when we will have reached our objective. in order to reach it, we are preparing things now. so i have spoken with the forthcoming eu presidencies of finland, germany and portugal, and practical actions will be built up until we reach the e-inclusion initiative in 2008. since the publication of the i-2010 action plan, we have significantly raised awareness of ict issues. we have started to make progress on key objectives, with the adoption of several proposals, with other proposals in the pipeline and with initiatives that were not inscribed in the i-2010 initiative. the flexibility of the action plan allows us to add initiatives whenever necessary. the latest one i took involves consultation on rfids, which bring together economic necessity and the necessity to protect the privacy of our citizens. however, achievement of our ambitious objective requires adequate financial resources. as soon as an interinstitutional agreement on the financial perspective is reached, we need to see important decisions and adjustments named in the seventh framework programme and in the competitiveness and innovation programme. i therefore urge you to ensure that those two programmes are granted the basic necessary financial resources in order to support ict as a driver for competitiveness and growth. i am very glad to see that this is a shared opinion and goal not only in this house but also in the three institutions, and that is a guarantee of success. (applause)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality and, after congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work, i must join the commissioner in saying that, in order to achieve the lisbon objectives, it is essential to build a fully inclusive information society, where all people have access to and can benefit from the new information and communications technologies on an equal footing. in this context, the low presence of women in the fields related to these technologies highlights the real existence of a gender-based digital divide within the european union, which has clear repercussions in the labour market and needs to be addressed through specific actions. the causes of this divide must be addressed and training measures must be promoted to increase the number of well-trained women in this field and at all levels, and to increase the presence and participation of women in all decision-making and policy-making bodies in the field of information and communication technologies. their presence is still extremely low today. we call for special attention to be paid to women living in rural, isolated and geographically remote areas, who can find in information and communication technologies an effective means of participation in economic, political and social life. to achieve this, reliable, gender-segregated data and a gender-sensitive legal framework are essential to identify and address the causes of discrimination. in this respect, the role of the new european institute for gender equality can be fundamental. we also refer in our report to the sexist use of the image of women in the media and in particular in the digital media, and we therefore ask the commission to promote the development of a code for gender equality in the media, which will help to promote gender equality, both from the media in relation to the information they transmit and within the media themselves. i would like to conclude by asking the commission to pay particular attention to the criminal use of new information and communication technologies, such as the use of the internet for the trafficking of women and children. we therefore call for all the legal and technological initiatives needed to put an end to this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for the report which she has drawn up. i think that thanks to this report we have had an extremely interesting debate, because it underlines again what i consider to be absolutely essential in the lisbon agenda. if there is one area which is decisive for the development of the lisbon agenda, it is information and communication technologies, which is a priority issue for this house and for the european institutions. i should like to take this opportunity to refer to the budgetary issues which are still to be defined. for example, in relation to the seventh framework programme, we cannot forget the essential, decisive role played by information and communication technologies in the lisbon agenda. i shall mention only two aspects of the debate we had in my committee, in which we reached agreement on this report. firstly, in connection with article 66, which was adopted in the committee on industry, research and energy and which refers to the need not to forget deregulation, which is necessary for the sector, which was only needed to be regulated temporarily and for a while. i think it is very important not to forget this, because otherwise we will also be going against the lisbon agenda if we do not take this into account and vote in favour of it today. finally, on the subject of women, all the groups reached a compromise amendment and voted in favour of it, but then eight amendments appeared which referred to the subject of women, which mr paasilinna announced today would be reduced to three. women don't need to be told. women need decisive action. we do not need, where there are problems, the same thing to be repeated twenty times, but we need to do something once and for all with seriousness and determination. we are therefore in favour of the compromise amendment, but not of the 'again and again' rhetoric which is reflected in those additional amendments.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their report and express my satisfaction with the efforts of the commission to ensure that the european union can have an independent body specifically dedicated to gender equality issues. i would like to stress the need for the institute to enjoy complete independence, without any conditions. this is a fundamental requirement for the institute to be able to fulfil its objectives, which go far beyond the mere technical assistance to the commission. as a working method, the idea of creating a european gender equality network seems to me clearly innovative and effective, especially in overcoming the imperatives of time and distance in the pooling and exchange of knowledge, information and policies. as regards the structure of the institute, i think that in the end an acceptable solution has been found in the composition of the administrative council, which implies a fair and effective distribution of functions between the three institutions and which is in line with the reality of an institution which, unfortunately, has a low budget and few staff. in this connection, i would like to stress that, if the institute is to achieve its objectives, it is essential that it be well funded, adequately funded, to give credibility to the european union's commitment to gender equality. this is something we should all bear in mind in the negotiations on financing between the various institutions.
i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs and all the members of the committee on women's rights and gender equality who have worked so hard on this report. i think that this institute should be a useful instrument, but its usefulness will depend on the political will of governments to really want equality between men and women. i say this because, as mrs sartori has said, there has been legislation for over 50 years to ensure that men and women are paid the same for equal work. however, it is 2006 and there are still many women who are paid less than men for the same work or whose contract does not correspond to the work they are actually doing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that women are not discriminated against in the workplace. this requires political will, which is expressed in money, in the money that has to be put into the budgets, both in the national budgets and in those of the european union. i say i really want equality and, of course, what i don't want is political propaganda. there are many occasions when governments which claim to be very progressive, when they present plans, such as the national reform plan which has been presented by the government of my country, include phrases such as 'employment benefits will be given to unemployed young men under 30' while at the same time not contemplating any measures for women under 30, who, in my country, have a much higher unemployment rate than men. i call this demagogy: saying one thing and doing another, and that is precisely what we must avoid in the european union. so yes to that institute, but that it really does serve something.
mr president of the federal republic of germany, ladies and gentlemen, before i welcome our distinguished guest today, i should like to say that during the interview we had with president köhler before coming to this plenary, we received the sad news of the death of mr lennart meri, who was president of estonia from 1992 to 2001. as you know, president meri was considered a symbol of the struggle for freedom and the national identity of estonia and his death deprives us of an important european personality, whom we are honouring here with this memorial. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me and for the whole of the european parliament to welcome you to this solemn session today. let me remind you, mr president, of your personal commitment to the european project, which is particularly useful and necessary at a time when the situation of the european union is giving citizens a lot of doubts. i know it's a concern for you, expressed with passion. i know that you are very conscious of the responsibility we all share in the face of the problems which concern europeans today, problems which cannot be solved without more europe. we are aware of the initiatives you are taking to extend and deepen the european debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this important initiative is not an isolated event. you take every opportunity to exchange views with the citizens and especially with the young people, who, curiously, are the most sceptical about a project so important for their future. you also combine words with action: you do not just speak of 'europe' at official events, but you work every day on concrete issues on the european agenda. you, mr president, have a personal experience which makes you almost the paragon of the european. he was a young man, a refugee boy in the aftermath of world war ii. you told me, very directly and personally, during my visit to germany, about your experiences: how you suffered the war and the exodus from the refugee camp, how you were getting on personally in a destroyed country which was also building, little by little, its future from the rubble of history. and your personal experience took you outside europe, and you have lived outside europe and seen us from the outside and, for that very reason, having lived dramatically from within and having observed from the outside how it was being built, you know that europe has no alternative but its own project of european union. but he also knows that these values and projects must be actively defended every day, that they are not free or automatic, and that is why i want to thank him for being here with us today to share his ideas with us, which will undoubtedly contribute a great deal to our wider debate on europe. mr president, i am very pleased to give you the floor.
president of the federal republic of germany. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the house is the european union's centre for political publicity and democratic decision-making. i am grateful to be here today to speak about europe and its future. europe is a mystery to the world. why does it seem so divided again so soon after its reunification? why, despite the successes of the european single market, does it have so little confidence in its merits? why, with so much power and opportunity, does it show such desperation? i have worked in the european bank for reconstruction and development and the international monetary fund, and i have met many countries around the world. the view from the outside has sharpened my own image of europe, and i have learned how others see our continent and the european union. we have long been familiar with liberal democracy, prosperity, peaceful equilibrium and the solidarity of the twenty-five member states. but from the outside, it's much clearer to see the incredible achievement we owe to this everyday life, and that's just two generations after world war ii and a half after the fall of the iron curtain. for this achievement, europe is admired by many people around the world. but their admiration gradually blends with impatience and incomprehension. they find too many europeans strangely self-absorbed, self-doubting, hopeless; and they say kindly: europe, if you are tired, step aside, we want to go first. what is our answer? my answer is that europe will always be full of creative turmoil. we europeans are not afraid of challenges, we take them. and that is why the european union has a great future. i would like to give reasons for these three observations. if we want to understand europe, we must look at its history and understand the ideas and ideals that unite us europeans. we are concerned with the inherent value of each individual in his or her uniqueness, dignity and freedom. the european community has been a source of inspiration for thousands of years, and it is only those who have worked hard and fought for it that can be worthy of it. and that is what europeans have done tirelessly, despite all the terrible setbacks. they used their talents, and that opened them to the depths of the mind, the philosophy, the sciences and the richness of the arts. the european people have also learned to question their own positions and to demand and give good reasons for everything they do. and this process of enlightenment will never be complete. we have understood and taken to heart very early on the importance of civil cohesion, self-determination and autonomy - from the greek city-states of antiquity to the medieval republics of italy, from the sense of self of spain, france, poland, england to the colourful diversity of the holy roman empire of the german nation. and in all this, the europeans were as pious as they were industrious. they saw work as a pious duty, not only at home but also out in the world. they traded and learned to get along and live together with people of other faiths and cultures. europeans have committed terrible sins, it is true, against other peoples and cultures and also against each other. but they have learned the right lessons from this: they stand for human rights, peace and democracy and they want others to learn from this lesson. and there is something else about europe: a culture of active charity and the active pursuit of social justice. these good qualities are found on all continents, of course, and europe has learned from them too! but the specifically european blend of love of freedom, the quest for truth, solidarity and creative restlessness is a one-off and it is good for those who come after us and good for the many outside europe who expect our contribution to peace and the well-being of the world. the european union and its member states are facing major challenges - again! the world is emerging with new growth areas, new competitive conditions, new zones of influence and new lines of conflict. in many european countries, unemployment is unbearably high. there is a measurable alienation of citizens and voters from the european union, and the european constitutional treaty has not found popular support in two of the founding states of our community. so many challenges and so many opportunities! we must remember again how often europe has succeeded, especially in times of trial, because it has been able to renew itself. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council. thirty years ago, the then dutch foreign minister, van der stoel, said of the european communities that their motto 'to complete, deepen and enlarge' had been replaced by 'stop, step back and flee'. europe was in a deep economic and institutional crisis. twenty years ago the single european act set the goal of a single market. at that time there were so many obstacles to the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital that, for example, the philips company had to produce seven different variants of the same razor for the european market and the siemens company twenty-five different electrical plugs. ten years ago, the single market was largely achieved. this has strengthened the european union institutionally and increased economic and social cohesion between the member states. since then, european firms have been producing for a domestic market of 450 million customers. new opportunities for success have been created, not least for suppliers from smaller member states, who can now produce in much larger quantities and therefore much more competitive. the single market is an excellent fitness programme for european companies to compete on a global scale. if you're a good student here, you don't have to worry about competition from overseas. economic and monetary union was and is the logical continuation of the internal market. it protects it from being torn apart by arbitrary devaluations. it protects against currency crises and waves of speculation such as we had to experience in europe in the early 1990s. it gives businesses planning certainty, allows consumers to compare prices without problems and saves them from high exchange and price-guarantee costs. this is why the euro, like the single market, has a long history of success, and its strength in international foreign exchange markets is a testament to the world's confidence in the old experience that europe is capable of turning challenges into opportunities. and you should keep that in mind every day! (applause from the centre) we will succeed again under two conditions: we must not weaken our tried and tested principles and achievements. we must be serious and sincere about correcting what is wrong and putting things in order. the first condition is that those who weaken the european single market by means of protectionism will end up cutting themselves. (applause from the centre) the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. (applause from the centre) in the long term, it reduces europe's ability to assert its place in the world, to create jobs for the future and to generate the means for social compensation. the only way to do that is to get europe back on its feet. this task begins for each one in his own home. some member states have already made good progress with the necessary structural reforms and are doing so accordingly. others have some work ahead of them. many examples show that the effort is worthwhile. and we must not spare the effort! the european union too must work on its form. it starts with the question of where it should be operating as a union. after all, she's not supposed to do everything possible, but everything necessary. and that does not include what can be done at local, regional or national level. respect for the principle of subsidiarity means respecting the autonomy and identity of union citizens as far as possible. and anyone who knows the reality of the european union's will-building process knows that this command is addressed to the governments of the member states at least as much as to the institutions of the european union. (applause from the centre) but if the european union is acting rightly, please do so with a minimum of red tape and in an understandable form. we are, after all, the heirs to a great legal and administrative tradition in europe. this should be an incentive to finally look at the bureaucratic rules. we have created enough opportunities with the zeal we have shown for regulation. it is therefore good that the european commission has launched a major programme to reduce the current number of paragraphs and to simplify european law. i have just had a good talk with commissioner verheugen on this. the citizens will also appreciate greater transparency in the european will-building process. today, decision-making at union level is often miles away from citizens. many people have difficulty understanding who in europe is responsible for what and who is ultimately responsible for what. this leads to apathy or even distrust, both of which are harmful. but citizens do not want to be just understanding spectators, they want as much democratic participation as possible beyond the european elections. they want to be heard and they want to be able to take the initiative to influence the action of the european institutions. now you will say: subsidiarity, transparency, democratic participation, the right of citizens' initiative - all the content of the european constitutional treaty. indeed, and the treaty contains much more good and right. and this should not be given up lightly, even in view of the fact that 14 member states have already agreed to the treaty. (applause from the right) europe has now decided to take a 'break' to think. the word can mean in german a pause for thinking and a pause in thinking. we should use the reflection phase to think deeply. at the latest then, there must be serious and objective dialogue within the european institutions and parties as well as the political public in all member states. this is precisely what requires the members of this house to have ideas and to be tireless in their efforts - also in the discussion with those who were not satisfied with my statement. (applause from the centre) the european debate can only benefit from diversity and creativity, but only one thing should count: the power of good argument. it will be instructive at best if there is an intensive debate in the member states on the meaning and content of european integration. this will increase the acceptance of the union in a lasting way. i have confidence in the people and citizens of europe. you have to trust them. we europeans ask for and give good reasons. i regard this as the european. i see more than one good reason why europe should speak with one voice in the emerging world order in foreign and security policy. this gives us more weight, for example, when we talk to others around the world about the international dimension of social responsibility and environmental protection. and the citizens have long known: in the global competition, we have to be so much better, the more expensive we are. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. (applause from the centre) citizens also welcome the union setting new goals and taking measures to make life easier and safer for europeans. that possibility exists. the most recent striking example is energy policy. it is clear to any reasonable person that all member states have a vital interest in a secure and affordable supply of clean energy and must work together to achieve this objective in the best possible way. "everyone is his own neighbor" will not be sustainable here. the european commission has presented a green paper on energy policy. i'm very pleased. we need to make good decisions on this matter quickly. the debates i am talking about, which will ensure a good future for the european union, are already under way. i would like to give a small example of this: a few weeks ago i met with six other european presidents in dresden. we have continued a dialogue initiated by the former portuguese president sampaio. and we talked to young people, a hundred students from seven european countries, and we asked them, "what do you think of europe?" what benefits do you see in this and what expectations do you have of the european union and its members? these students were not handpicked. they had been found by chance through a call for tenders . but the young people were well prepared. they had been consulting for a day and a half and called the result of their own discussion their 'dresden requests for european cohesion'. they are thinking, for example, of a uniform electoral system and they want a european house of history. they propose to spend five per cent of gdp on research and science. (applause) and they want a european army and a european civil service. (applause from the centre) i shall be adding to the documents of this house what the young people have written. of course, her round wasn't representative. of course, their demands seem idealistic. but this idealism is impressive. it has much of the enthusiasm of the people who rebuilt europe after the war and fought for its unity in freedom. there it is, the typical creative restlessness. there they are, the europeans who expect something from europe and are ready to do something for europe. they have them in europe. (applause from the centre) by the way, some of the students had benefited from the erasmus programme. let us be happy about this generation of erasmus and let us create more of it! (applause from the centre and the right) and while i am at it, apprentices should also be given more opportunities to learn from their neighbours and to experience the value of europe. (applause from the centre) the commission has already proposed a european training check, and i think that is a very good idea. i call on parliament to withdraw this cheque. (applause from the centre) let us take the example of the enthusiasm of young people. let us show ourselves to be true europeans! let us not be anxious about the future but be filled with creative anxiety for europe and the european union. let us work together to turn our challenges into opportunities for the benefit of all. then europe will remain what it is today: a good place to live and a force for good in our one world. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) annexdresden calls for european cohesion (5 february 2006) i. bringing europe closer to the people1. exchange programme for all sections of the population2. uniform eu electoral law3. giving europe a face through a directly elected president4. a short and understandable eu constitution5. giving europe a face through reinforced symbols visible clothes, e.g. by house of european history european cross of merit europe day as a single public holiday eu blue passport etc.6. euro customers in all schools in europe and a european centre for political education7. developing euro news into a popular european channel8. we are europe campaign9. europe brings the chances of europe to the country of origin.ii. using eu law to boost the eu's gdp and to increase its research capacity in the field of science and technology.ii. establishing a european parliamentary and parliamentary authority within the framework of the european parliament's budgetary and political agenda.iii. establishing a european parliamentary and parliamentary authority within the framework of the european parliamentary and parliamentary competences.
thank you, mr president. before we continue, let me say a few words of thanks to the president for his speech. it is true, there was a time when we had 25 different plugs: now we have the same plug, but 25 different electrical grids. the next step, as you have said, is to look more closely at the energy europe and so many other elements which must be common. thank you very much for your words and for your encouragement, mr president. (applause) i would like to thank
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, the footwear industry is an important economic sector in the european community, known worldwide for the excellence of its products. it is a sector composed mainly of small and mediumsized enterprises, often located in regions where they are the largest source of employment. in 2005, there were more than 11 000 companies directly or indirectly employing more than 500 000 workers, producing around 700 million pairs of shoes, representing 10% of world production. it should also be noted that in response to the opening-up process, the footwear industry has undergone extensive restructuring, concentrating its production mainly in the higher price range. i would say that the clearest european specialty is the leather industry. as in the case of textiles, the impact of the liberalization process has been important in ending the quota system. the control system introduced by the commission clearly shows that imports, particularly from china, but not only from china, have grown dramatically. last year, the figures in terms of value and quantity exceeded on average 450% of import growth and in some cases 900%. the average price of imported footwear has fallen significantly, but the selling price of the products has not, which does not support the thesis, which we think is important to defend, of who are the real beneficiaries of the trade liberalization process. in principle, they should be consumers. a year ago, the european footwear confederation lodged a complaint about dumping practices in leather footwear. this is one of the largest cases brought in the european union and involves many industries worth over €800 million. on 23 february the commissioner, mr mandelson, announced to the press that the commission was going to recommend an increase in tariffs of 19.4% for china and 16.8% for viet nam. children's footwear and other footwear, which represent a very large part, were not subject to such measures. the fact is that the commission took an unprecedented decision, introducing provisional anti-dumping duties for a period of five months. it should be noted that, given the unit value of the products, this is not a measure that can be considered unreasonable either, it is a relatively small percentage. i will not go into the dumping issue any further. however, as chairman of the committee on international trade, i would like to make a few comments on an initial concept, namely the need to respect the rules we have set ourselves within the wto, both within and outside the community. i am aware that this is more than just a case of dumping. in some cases, the survival of the sector in europe is raised and also the possibility that relocation is an appropriate response to developments. as you know, in these cases everyone has his reasons; now, it is inconceivable that the whole of european industry should move outwards. at the same time, it should be noted that china is seeking to obtain market economy status in the wto framework. there are aspects of the community investigations which indicate that in this case china has clearly failed to comply with its wto obligations, both in the field of subsidies, more or less covert, and in the field of counterfeiting. so, commissioner, this is an opportunity to demonstrate to the citizens that the commission will do everything in its power to ensure that trade rules are respected, including, if necessary, recourse to the dispute settlement body in the wto. these market distortions are not limited to the hunting sector. there are reasonable grounds to suspect that certain illegal interventions in support of chinese exporting companies are routine. commissioner, in view of the expectations of the industry concerned and the sensitivity of european public opinion, i would like to know what action the commission will take to ensure that the wto rules are respected by this country. political considerations should not prevail over technical conclusions in an anti-dumping case. the measures you have proposed are controversial. the european industry and certain member states are not satisfied with its proposal.the objections to the 'creativity' shown by the commission in applying its well-established anti-dumping rules and practices are public. i don't know if these allegations are true. what i do know is that anti-dumping investigations are based on laws which must be faithfully applied without any parallel considerations. i can tell you in conclusion, commissioner, that the committee on international trade of the european parliament will be following this whole process very closely, because we believe that the step taken by the commission is an initial step, but that it must be completed with a favourable attitude so that china or other countries, such as vietnam, can have more opportunities in international trade, but respecting together the rules we have set ourselves.
mr president, the european footwear sector is experiencing two difficulties: on the one hand, it is suffering from unfair practices, and on the other hand, commissioner, it is still facing difficulties in terms of tariffs and other barriers in practice when it comes to accessing third country markets. i believe that all this calls for effective action against dumping, which allows us to react in a fair but at the same time agile way, so that we avoid, as has happened with textiles, that between taking measures and not taking measures, speculative movements occur and we promote a greater increase in imports in the end. the commission's proposal on the anti-dumping proceeding concerning footwear originating in china and vietnam is a reasonable and balanced expression, but it contains surprising elements that many people cannot understand, such as the exclusion of the measures you have proposed for children's footwear, which, as you know, is not in many cases used only by children, and also for special technology sports footwear (staf). in the event of dumping, duties should be imposed which are effective in ensuring fair competition and, in this respect, the level of duties and their practical application should be based on their effectiveness, i.e. the effective elimination of dumping.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, adeline hazan, on a report which is certainly accurate and rigorous. i would like to say that the adoption of the european arrest warrant - let us never forget this - was not only the adoption of yet another legal instrument at the time, or even the mere replacement of an obsolete extradition system; in reality it was a symbol, it was a response and it reflected a new attitude. it was a symbol of the urgency of creating a european judicial and police area, it was the european response to the terrible attack of 11 september on the twin towers in new york, and at the same time it reflected the political attitude of actively combating terrorism, of dealing with security through an internal policy of the european union, which is one of the great objectives that should characterize our presence. i have to say that i had the opportunity to present this order when i was in the council of ministers and, unfortunately, that order was not adopted until after the attacks of 11 september. that is why it is essential that we do not reintroduce the double-incrimination check, that we resolve the various incompatibilities with the various constitutions and that the national courts do not introduce supplementary instruments before another attack forces us urgently and hastily to introduce amendments to this very important order. so there can be no obstacles, no lukewarmness on this issue. it is certainly a matter of unambiguous will and it is also a matter of recalling the very important task of a minister of the interior at that time, antoine duquesne, who is not here today but who played a decisive and determining role in the european arrest warrant being the subject of this afternoon's debate.
madam president, i am sorry to waste a little time before the commission starts its question time, but i wanted to express my surprise and perhaps my astonishment at what has happened to one of the questions i had put for this particular part-session. while last week i was informed that my question on the maintenance or amendment of the decision to reduce the number of spanish translators in the european commission was to be answered third during this part-session, last night i received a communication that my question was classified by the president of parliament as inadmissible. i have received a letter today from mr harald rømer, deputy secretary-general, in which he explains that this decision was taken in response to an oral question i put in february. i am sure that mr rømer has only read the title of my question, which is the same, but he has not read the text. the text of my question for february and my question for this month are absolutely different; someone please show me, for example, when the commission has said whether it will reduce the number of translators in the spanish service to 67 before the end of the year or how it will support a decision of this kind at the next eu-latin america summit in vienna. i do not agree with this declaration of inadmissibility. i think it violates my rights as a member of parliament and i demand that my question be answered, if not this term, then next month.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question raises an important problem, since it concerns funds for a project which is essential to us, namely a research project on the subject of crime. for technical reasons it is not possible to increase funding, as the honourable member has requested, this is a 2004 project which is due to end in 2006; however, it is possible to organize seminars on the activities and analysis of the new member states within the framework of this same programme, as the honourable member would like. in addition, there is another programme, which is also financed by the commission, which covers all the member states, including the new member states, and which includes the collection of statistical data and information on five types of serious crime: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. the project in progress covers all the member states of the union.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current project will be completed in april 2006, in a few weeks' time. the next project has already started and will be completed during the year. we can therefore say that this year we will have updated statistical data for the member states before 2004 and for all the other member states afterwards, by the end of the year.
vice-president of the commission. the question concerns interest rate policy and monetary policy. on behalf of the commission, i must say that monetary policy – and therefore decisions on interest rate changes – is the sole responsibility of the european central bank. its independence is enshrined in the treaty. it is the european central bank’s primary objective to maintain price stability in the euro area by ensuring that medium- to long-term inflation expectations in the euro area remain solidly anchored at levels consistent with price stability. the european central bank supports economic growth and job creation in the euro area. the current level of interest rates across the entire maturity spectrum remains low by historical standards, both in nominal and real terms. as regards the last part of the question on the economic outlook, in its last interim forecast the commission expected economic growth in 2006 to accelerate to between 1.9% and 2% in the euro area, which is close to estimates of the area’s potential growth rate. however, the commission is cautious about commenting on the policies of the european central bank, as that is the bank’s sole responsibility.
madam president, commissioner, all caution and institutional respect are not at odds with making political assessments of the decisions of the institutions, as in the case of the european central bank, whose interest rate hike, at a time of low economic growth and lack of job creation in the european union, is worrying millions of spaniards, millions of european citizens, millions of small businesses throughout europe and millions of families who have mortgages. that is why i said to you, commissioner, that i would ask the commission to adopt a political approach which also respects the european central bank.
member of the commission. thank you so much for the follow-up question. i listened with interest, if only via broadcast, to the speech of the president of the federal republic of germany, who spoke with great enthusiasm about education, youth and the erasmus programme. i think that is the right attitude of a head of state and a european citizen who believes that through education and mobility we can achieve much more, economically, socially, culturally and politically. i am therefore convinced that the new programmes in the fields of education and also culture, civil society and youth should mean a quantitative as well as a qualitative increase, because they are of great importance to individuals and the community as a whole. it is now primarily in the hands of the partners who are negotiating the financial perspective, but i believe that this is a very timely message for the presidency, parliament, the commission and the whole of the enlarged european union. i would like to thank you in particular for your continued support in this plenary for the european union's education programmes. it's very necessary.
madam president, we are now talking about integration and a feeling of belonging to europe, and a few minutes ago we were talking about racism and xenophobia. i think there are common elements in all of this. a few months ago i visited canada and saw that there is a very comprehensive integration program for immigrants and their families. i would like to ask the commission whether it is possible to create an integration programme for young immigrants, so that we too can have less racism and less xenophobia, since these new european citizens also have a feeling of belonging to our community.
member of the commission. i am sure that using education as a tool against racism and xenophobia for social inclusion and for integration is also a very acutely perceived and common task. an integrated, free, democratic europe can be based only on integrated, free, democratic societies. member states, their governments, public authorities in the broader sense and european institutions are thus invited to support such tools. some of the programmes are already being used to that end. the european youth pact, adopted last year, is one of the special tools for integration and provides some answers for the youth of europe, young people who have many difficulties or are in vulnerable situations in individual countries. social inclusion is one of the most important parts of social policy. i do not want to speak on behalf of my colleagues, but these issues are taken into account and promoted via different programmes which we have in our remit. more can be done on the basis of coherent policies at european and national levels. this is an ongoing issue, to be dealt with not only via education but also via sport, culture and intercultural dialogue. these are very useful and efficient tools for promoting social inclusion and integration and for combating problems such as violence, hooliganism, racism and xenophobia.
member of the commission. i mentioned erasmus because the german president used that example. i believe he was right to mention it because it is probably the most famous and popular programme. there have been 1.4 million erasmus alumni since 1987. they are very influential programmes for individuals and societies. people get a lot from those programmes. they are asked for more and more. i have expressed gratitude for the support in parliament for these programmes because they have impact. the future of europe without those programmes would be more in question. the programmes have an impact on other areas: erasmus was the driving force for the bologna process, which is very influential for any student, any professor and any university in europe. i mentioned some of the proposals that are already in the implementation rules adopted by the commission. the commission has proposed more than 100 amendments to the financial regulation. it is now your turn to decide, and to improve it. as of january 2006, we have established a new executive agency that deals with all individual cases and individual projects and works closely with national agencies. this centralised system for the operation of our programmes is a reasonable tool. national agencies operate in member states in concrete national languages. they are much closer to citizens, which helps to provide the best service for the users of the programme. perhaps we can go into more detail in future, when we discuss the financial regulation itself. there are some concrete measures and proposals on how to simplify life for the user of small grants, in contrast to the millions used for infrastructure or research projects. we also want to put more money, for example, into erasmus or lifelong learning programmes because we believe the eur 125 per head, per month, is not very substantial european support when we look into the real costs of daily life in our countries. so ‘more’ also means more in the social dimension. this money is often decisive for those who need european grants to study abroad.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. the european entrepreneurship agenda, an action plan, was adopted in 2004. the action plan established five strategic priority areas for the european entrepreneurship agenda in these years. the first of these areas is about strengthening the entrepreneurial mindset among young people. the european commission recently adopted, on 13 february, a communication under this action plan entitled 'strengthening the entrepreneurial mindset through education and learning'. in this communication, the commission outlined a set of recommendations addressed to the member states, since this is an area in which the european union does not have formal competence. the aim is to strengthen the role of education in creating a higher entrepreneurial culture in europe and european societies. education should stimulate the entrepreneurial spirit of young people and give them opportunities for their future, together with the means to develop basic entrepreneurial skills. one of the objectives of this communication is to improve the preparation of young people for their future lives, professions and employment. the commission is of the opinion that the benefits of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship education should not necessarily be measured by the number of newly created or innovative businesses and new jobs. entrepreneurship is first and foremost a key competency for all, as it helps young people to be more creative and enterprising, to have more self-confidence, to work and make decisions in a more socially responsible way in any field of their own application. in this light and within the wider range of competences that we are developing under the education and training 2010 programme, entrepreneurship is one of the elements in the eight key and fundamental competences for lifelong learning reference framework. we consider these key competences to be crucial for personal fulfilment, social inclusion, also mentioned earlier, active citizenship and employability. they include, for example, a civic, cultural and educational dimension. according to this communication, the commission considers that promoting entrepreneurship through education and training is fully consistent and compatible with the objectives we have set ourselves, and which are also set by the members of the european parliament, and even by the author of this question, mrs maria badia i cutchet, in improving education overall in all areas and in ensuring that european citizens are free, independent and have better conditions for development in the future.
madam president, commissioner, i am grateful for your words, which have certainly reassured me a little, because, reading this communication, one has the feeling that we are subjecting education too much to a logic of competition and the market. i'm seeing a lot of students in the audience right now, and i'm convinced that some of them are thinking about becoming entrepreneurs in the future, but maybe many others will have totally different interests: cultural or humanitarian interests.
madam president, i think it is a step forward that the legislation in bulgaria and romania is being brought into line with european standards, because in the field of adoption the most important thing is the protection of the child. unfortunately, however, we know that in these countries, as in others, there are children who are not in a comfortable family situation and we have families within the european union who would be willing to accept parental responsibilities with all kinds of guarantees. i know that there is no european legislation on the subject, but there is the possibility that the european union might mediate in some way with the authorities in bulgaria and romania to ensure that european union families who are willing to take such action do so in the best possible conditions and thus facilitate, where necessary, adoption by european union families. i would like to know your opinion on whether there is any possibility of action by the commission in this area.
mr president, i would like to refer to what my group believes should be the guiding principle in parliament's budget, namely to maximise the efficiency of parliamentary work while minimising its cost. in drawing up the budget of the european parliament we should be answering questions such as: are we providing members with the right tools to carry out their role? do meps have interpreters available in all languages, rapid translation of documents and proper legal and technical assistance? do members have a good computer system and sufficient support staff? from an external point of view, are the members receiving correct information? are the political groups involved in the production and control of this information? do meps need new information supports, or do they need better use of existing ones? the european people's party has tabled specific amendments to answer these questions. on the other hand, we should think about minimizing the cost. is it necessary to reach that 20% ceiling? would it not be better to demonstrate that, even in this house, austerity and saving are basic principles of behaviour? i hope that the 2007 budget will follow the trend of 2006 and that we will not, under any circumstances, return to the path of general expenditure.
mr president, commissioner, today, as we did last time when we reviewed it, we discussed the financial regulation in the evening session. i hope that today, as in the last review, we will again find a presidency-in-office of the council receptive to our proposals and not a presidency that is suspicious, that wants to maintain the status quo, without realizing that circumstances have changed and that operating rules need to be improved in order to improve budget implementation. today, as last time, we need an executive commission which is sympathetic to parliament and demanding of the council. the rapporteur has obtained a large majority for her proposal in both the committee on budgetary control and the committee on budgets, and she makes valuable contributions to the removal of bureaucratic obstacles, safeguarding the financial interests of taxpayers against fraud. i would like to stress the rapporteur's compromise proposal on the amendments tabled. the proposal by another political group to authorize the carryover of all unused commitment appropriations is unrealistic and may affect the principle of annuality and, above all, does not favour our position on the recycling of unused funds, which is part of the negotiating strategy in the financial perspective. limiting the quantity, as the rapporteur does in her compromise amendment, seems more reasonable and, above all, more operative in defending this strategy. i think that the strategy should clearly separate the vote on the legislative proposal from the final adoption once we have a positive wording from the council.
mr president, i address the 20 colleagues who are almost heroically present in this evening's sitting. it's a shame that we have to discuss such important issues at night. our colleagues decided that there should be no sitting on fridays, and here we are, at inappropriate hours, unworthy of the quality and dignity of our parliamentary work. secondly, i would say that we should congratulate mrs gräßle on her good work and say that this parliament has an obligation to ensure that the money that citizens give us is not wasted on administrative expenditure, that it arrives on time and in an efficient manner, and that is what mrs gräßle's report is about. because there are two philosophies, and i love that most of the speakers share this new philosophy - which is not the one i knew when i came to this parliament four legislatures ago - the philosophy of thinking that we have to get the best out of the people who work to administer the budget, that we have to give accountability. the political stance of putting bureaucracy into spending is born of a distrust of our officials, that we, the politicians, do not want to take any kind of risk. we want to cut off the heads of officials who make mistakes and therefore we tell them that, whenever they have to buy a pencil, they have to do a long procedure to make sure that the pencil is well bought. we don't admit the slightest error and we have experience of cutting off the heads of officials who have been right many times, but have been wrong once. the philosophy of making the spending procedure less complicated will therefore allow the community money, which the council is increasingly rationing - it is only going to give us 1%, not 1.2% - to arrive better and on time, because there are plenty of examples of community money, because of our regulation and our little responsibility as politicians, arriving late and badly to the taxpayer, the european citizen. thank you very much, mrs gräßle, for this excellent report.
member of the commission. mr president, i could not agree more that ultimately we need to take a broad view on the reasons for depleted stocks. however, i will also stress that our communication deals with fisheries and how to come to grips with depleted stocks because, unless we reverse the trend as regards over-capacity and fishing effort, we will not deal with the problem effectively. regarding the point made concerning pilot projects on discards, there are indeed proposed projects in the north sea aiming at increasing selectivity by new technical measures. i need to underline however that calling for a complete ban on discards from community waters is easier said than done. this point was also raised by mr stevenson and by mr casaca. even with regard to norway, where fisheries are much less mixed and less complex, it has not been without problems. we are however looking at various ways of reducing discards, as i indicated in my initial presentation. on another point made by mr stevenson concerning the studying of factors other than over-fishing, such as pollution and global warming – a point also raised by other honourable members of parliament – we are certainly willing to do this and we are doing so. the problem exists independently of the problem of depleted stocks, and we need to address it if we want to regain sustainable fisheries in the long-term interests of the fishermen themselves. in fact this is what we are trying to do by virtue of the proposed new technical measures and the communication we are preparing on maximum sustainable yields. with regard to the point raised by mrs corbey, we are looking at the question of certification and labelling regarding sustainable fisheries by means of the eco-labelling proposal, which we hope to present during the course of this year. i would also like to pick up the point that was made by mr hudghton, that environmentally friendly fishing methods are in the interests of the fishermen first and foremost. however, i would not agree with his point regarding the abandonment of the common fisheries policy, which i consider to be a cornerstone and the very basis of sustainable fisheries in the european union. with regard to the point raised by mr guerreiro, let me reiterate that the issue of compensation for socio-economic measures is being dealt with in the context of discussions on the european fisheries fund, which i hope will be adopted at the april council. in response to mr freitas’s point regarding the vessel monitoring system, i would like to state that the commission considers that satellite technologies offer a powerful means of detecting the presence of unauthorised fishing vessels in closed areas and many protected areas and strongly supports the use of remote control technologies for control of the major part of the european union fleet. the commission supports vms purchase and installation costs, and in fact the maximum amount paid during recent years has been in the region of eur 2 250 for each blue box. in parallel, the commission encourages the use of vessel protection systems which allows identification of the presence of vessels with vms systems through a satellite image. i agree with the point made by mr braghetto, mr gklavakis and mr nicholson on involving the fisheries sector – the various stakeholders and the industry – in the management of fisheries and in the various measures needed to attain and maintain sustainable fisheries. i also agree on the need to base our advice on scientific assessments. i would also like to thank mrs attwooll, mrs sinnott, mr chmielewski and mr casaca for their views and for their very valid comments and remarks.
good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the house. before we get to the agenda, i should like to tell you what you already know, namely that we will not have the opportunity to hear president mahmoud abbas today. in fact, a few hours after arriving in strasbourg yesterday, president mahmoud abbas, our guest today, had to return to ramallah. the obvious cause has been the terrible and deplorable events in jericho which have created a violent and dangerous situation. i conveyed parliament's understanding to him last night, saying that we fully understood that the crisis situation created in palestine required him to return to his country to take charge of the situation. fate, chance, have wanted to have produced a highly symbolic situation. the fact that we have to leave strasbourg immediately after arriving in the country and cannot get to parliament has some symbolism of greek tragedy. mr abbas represents the majority of palestinians who, despite all the suffering and disappointments they have accumulated, continue to support a negotiated solution to the conflict with israel. it represents those who, despite everything, still think that it is possible to find a solution through peace. he is a man who has been trying to achieve peace through negotiations since the 1970s and therefore his presence here today would have been a golden opportunity to support his position; another opportunity lost because of an unnecessary and illegal military operation and the violence it has provoked. the whole world is asking today why and how such a military action serves to strengthen israel's security, why and how the humiliating images we have seen on television or the destruction of that prison by bulldozers contribute to israel's security. europeans will have to pay for a new prison, as well as for so many other things destroyed in the course of these tragic clashes. the violence that has followed this military action is certainly worrying. as you know, this morning the news confirms that there are three western hostages, among them two european citizens - two french citizens. there have been rumors of more kidnappings, more hostages, but they haven't been confirmed. last night, before mr abbas left for the airport, i visited him at his hotel and he explained to me the efforts he had been making during the day to stop this military operation and to stop the spiral of violence before it got out of hand. the president of the palestinian national authority asked me to explain to you the reasons why he had to return to his country, to try to control the situation and to prevent the continuation of the kidnappings of citizens of western countries, which are now a matter of grave concern. the european union staff that was guarding the gaza-egypt border also had security problems. i should also like to inform you that president abbas has promised to return to strasbourg and to address the european parliament as soon as possible, probably at the next part-session in april. if that happens, we shall then have the opportunity to learn how you intend to deal with the serious crisis in your country. i asked him if he wanted the speech he was going to give today to be distributed in writing to members of parliament. mr abbas felt that he had lost touch with the current situation and that it was better to know how it was developing, and he wished to be able to join us as soon as the situation would allow it. i think this is an opportunity for the leaders of the political groups who wish to speak to intervene. some of them have asked me. so those who wish to speak can do so for a relatively short time of three minutes.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mahmoud abbas should have appeared before your parliament today and made a speech. for reasons that are well known, this performance had to be cancelled. it is therefore natural that the leaders of the political groups and other relevant members should have spoken. i would like to take this opportunity, however, to express briefly on behalf of the council our deep concern at the continuing and escalating violence in the middle east. the foreign minister and president of the council, ursula plassnik, condemned the violent attacks by radical palestinians on eu institutions and also joined the appeals of the security council and the secretary-general of the united nations in this regard. the priority objective is to restore order and to protect human life. we must remind all those in charge that they have a responsibility to protect human lives and to free the hostages still in custody. as mr pöttering rightly said, this is no time for quick-fire. the council will now also be discussing what concrete steps need to be taken. i also agree with mr schulz, who said that all the institutions - parliament, but also the council and the commission - are called upon to ensure in a responsible manner that the middle east peace process is not permanently interrupted but can continue. we call on israel and the palestinian authority to exercise restraint to prevent further escalation. i would also like to agree with mr cohn-bendit that we must prevent and avoid unilateral measures. that is not the way to solve the problems in the middle east. the foreign ministers have been discussing the middle east problem very intensively in recent weeks and months, most recently at the informal foreign ministers' meeting in salzburg last weekend, on which the foreign minister will be reporting today. attacks on facilities, hostage-taking, all kinds of violence are not only contrary to our own values. they also disrupt and undermine peace efforts. we hope that together we will be able to put the peace process back on track. (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. i would like to add my voice to the expression which has been used here, namely that i regret that i was unable to hear president mahmoud abbas here today. i myself had scheduled a meeting with him and i regret that it was not possible. in any event, just yesterday commissioner ferrero waldner met president mahmoud abbas and, on behalf of the commission, expressed our support for the search for a peaceful solution to the middle east peace problem. i want to make it very clear here today that we condemn, without any ambiguity, all forms of violence that we have seen in that region, wherever they come from, and we call for a sense of responsibility and maximum restraint on all sides at this time. we join those who have expressed concern about the extremely serious situation in that region. we must of course make special mention of the fact that some europeans have been held hostage and that the facilities of the european union and some member states have also been attacked in those territories. i would remind you that no one has helped the palestinian people more than the european union. the european union has been and will continue to be a donor to the palestinian people, and we therefore call and make a strong appeal that no forms of violence be used against eu facilities, member states' facilities or our nationals, and we call on all parties to show restraint to avoid a worsening of the situation and to work together so that the people of israel and the palestinian people can live in peace. (applause) i would like to thank
the conference of presidents will be examining the proposals put forward by the political group chairmen and in ten days' time the plenary session of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly will be held in brussels, thus concluding the presidency of the european union of this institution. i would like to call on everyone to take advantage of this meeting so that the dialogue to which you all referred this morning can develop properly. i would ask the commission and the council in particular to make their presence in this euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly appropriate to the circumstances, because in previous meetings their presence may not have been at the level we would have wished and requested. i hope that in this euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly the commission and the council will be able to present reports, measures and proposals which will contribute to the euro-mediterranean dialogue and to the solution which europe can bring to the problems of the middle east, which yesterday's events have certainly not helped to improve.
mr martin, what is your point of order?
mr. martin, this is not a question of order. i would remind you that the time you waste also costs the taxpayer money.
mr president, you are entitled to ask for anything you want, but not by appealing to a point of order. the procedure you have followed is not the right one either. i would ask everyone to use the appropriate regulatory procedures to formulate their views. it is not a question of order which has anything to do with the conduct of today's sitting. i shall, however, review the circumstances in which the letter you say you have sent me is found and the reply i imagine must be in progress. please do not use procedural procedures which are solely and exclusively concerned with the work of the current session to raise other issues which, important as they are, cannot be covered by the requests you make.
the debate will proceed, as stated in the agenda, from the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council and the lisbon strategy. as a result of the change in the order of business, which has been caused by the cancellation of the formal sitting, this debate will continue until approximately noon. the vote will take place after the debate.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. as you know, the implementation of the lisbon strategy will be the focus of this summit. it goes without saying that thorough preparation is the best prerequisite for the success of such an undertaking. the specialised councils responsible for the various subjects have therefore presented their views and contributions on the european council's priorities. the draft conclusions are now being examined under the established procedure. the first day of the european council, 23 march, will also see the usual three-part social summit. the aim is to ensure that the council, the commission and the social partners work together, particularly in the fields of employment, economic policy and social protection. in this context, we expressly welcome the initiatives of the european institutions for greater accountability, for greater ownership at community level and the valuable contributions made, for example, by the second interparliamentary meeting of the european parliament with the national parliaments. the public is also called upon to take part in this process. the member states' governments have a duty to make their citizens more aware of the urgency of implementing this partnership for jobs and growth. it is important that regional and local authorities within the framework of their respective constitutions and civil society are also involved in the design and implementation of the national reform programmes. in this constructive spirit, we also want to have an open debate in today's debate on the possible solutions to the common economic and social problems of our european union and on the important role that you, the representatives of the people, play here. as you know, the european council decided in march 2005 to renew the lisbon strategy in depth and streamlined its procedures. the new governance cycle is based on partnership and accountability. at their meeting in hampton court, the heads of state or government gave further political impetus to the revitalised lisbon strategy, focusing on how european values can underpin the modernisation of the economy and society in a globalised world. last but not least, at its meeting in december last year, the european council reached political agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-13. this in itself is an important signal that the european union is capable of finding solutions, although we are aware of the fact that we are engaged in an intensive and difficult dialogue with you, which we wish to conduct constructively in order to implement this intergovernmental agreement with you. europe must face up to new challenges. these include the intensification of external competitive pressures economic and technological , the ageing of the population, rising energy prices and the need to ensure energy security. since the end of 2005, there has been a tentative but gradual economic recovery. in the european union, six million new jobs are expected to be created over the three-year period 2005-2007. unemployment would then fall by almost one percentage point in 2007. however, the main challenge for the european union remains to further reduce unemployment by almost 19.5 million people, increase productivity and increase growth potential. this albeit moderate recovery in the economy is an excellent opportunity to make a strong push for structural reforms in line with the national reform programmes and to pursue more intensive fiscal consolidation in line with the new stability and growth pact. specific targets and timetables are a useful tool to accelerate the implementation of planned reforms and to achieve better results in terms of growth and employment. on the basis of its decisions of spring 2005, the european council adopted integrated strategic guidelines. on the basis of these, member states have drawn up national reform programmes tailored to their needs. the commission has presented a 'community lisbon programme' which proposes measures to be taken at community level. the commission's annual progress report also makes an important contribution to the functioning of the process of the renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. all member states have developed their national reform programmes rapidly and thoroughly. these programmes, which are tailored to the needs and specific situations of the member states, are designed to implement the reforms. the national reform programmes are a crucial first step towards moving forward with greater ownership and awareness of the reform priorities. these national reform programmes provide a good basis for further work on the reform agenda. the commission believes that - and i would like to take this opportunity to thank in particular the president of the commission, mr barroso, for the work of the commission, which is of the utmost importance for the preparation of the summit, and above all for the very rapid and very thorough work that has been done here - some programmes should, however, contain more specific objectives and timetables, as well as further details on the budgetary aspects of the reforms envisaged, and also deal more in depth with competition issues and the removal of barriers to market access. the necessary instruments are in place. the member states' top priority in 2006 will therefore be to implement our objectives fully and in a timely manner. to this end, member states will, where necessary, intensify the measures already provided for. the commission has not proposed an update of the guidelines for growth and employment, which means that they will continue to apply in full. the focus, after the major changes in the previous year, is now to be on more action and more continuity. in line with the new policy-making practice for the strategy, member states have made a concrete effort to involve national parliaments and representatives of regional and local authorities, as well as social partners and other representatives of civil society in the design of their national programmes. the citizens of europe now need to be more involved in the process to convince them that timely and meaningful reforms will contribute to more and better distributed wealth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament can help us to achieve greater accountability, greater ownership of the lisbon strategy by all actors and to ensure participation in the future. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. in this context, i would also like to mention that the austrian presidency attaches particular importance to the compromise reached in the european parliament at first reading on the services directive. the results are well balanced and provide a good basis for further work. the considerable number of amendments tabled shows how controversial this dossier still is. in the light of this outcome and the debate in the council so far, the presidency is keen that the european council now invite the commission to submit the revised proposal as soon as possible and expresses the hope that the institutions will be able to complete the legislative process swiftly. the presidency intends that the european council, in the framework of the integrated guidelines adopted last year, will identify specific priority actions to be implemented by the end of 2007. the spring summit, therefore, in the context of the renewed lisbon strategy, focuses on the themes identified as priorities in the national reform programmes and in the european commission report, namely research, development and innovation, small and medium-sized enterprise policy, employment and energy. it is clear that action should continue to be taken in general in all three areas of the lisbon strategy (economic, social and environmental). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the level of ambition in this respect is still being discussed in the council's preparatory work. one pillar of the lisbon strategy is research and innovation as a driver for production and knowledge use. four years ago we set ourselves the target of achieving a 3% research rate in europe by 2010, with a substantial share of this expenditure, two thirds, to be financed by the business sector. it would be wise to increase the resources available from the european union side alongside our own national efforts. the cooperation between universities, research and industry must also be encouraged to help increase the research rate. but as we all know, we are not on the right track in this area, which is so crucial for our future. research expenditure in the union is currently only about 1.9%. through our efforts together with the european commission, we have been able to set in motion a dynamic and raise awareness among member states of the importance of concrete targets and commitments to increase research expenditure. here too, all member states have already raised the level of ambition and set themselves corresponding national targets. in addition, in our fast-moving information society, modern communication strategies play a key role in promoting innovation. in the field of higher education, we call on member states to facilitate access to additional private funding for universities by 2007 in line with their national practices and to remove barriers to cooperation between academic institutions and industry. secondly, more must be done to develop the business environment, the entrepreneurial potential and, in particular, the situation of small and mediumsized enterprises. this is also something that should be discussed in the european council. small and mediumsized enterprises (smes) are a major part of the european economy and can rightly be described as its motor. there are some 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises in the european union, providing almost 75 million jobs. measures to strengthen and promote small and medium-sized enterprises as the backbone of the european economy can therefore make a significant contribution to growth and employment. we also want to reduce the administrative burden for smes and reduce the time and cost of setting up a business. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr winkler, i am sorry, there is normally no time limit for the council and commission to speak, but we have a schedule problem this morning because of the time we have spent in the previous debate. i would ask you to adjust your speech if you can, so that members can speak. i'd appreciate that.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i apologize if i speak too long. i'll cut and close. there is an urgent need for action on a number of issues. my intervention would be incomplete if i did not also mention the labour market, and in particular the promotion of the integration of young people into the labour market. the european council in particular wants to devote special attention to combating youth unemployment. one concern is to reduce the school drop-out rate by 2010 and to ensure that more young people have a higher education. the fight against longterm unemployment must also be at the heart of our efforts. finally, the energy issue will also play a particularly important role, not only because of the importance of this sector for job creation and growth, but also, of course, in the light of recent events. i hope that the european council will provide important impetus in this respect, as in all the other subjects i have mentioned, which will have a decisive influence on the future work of all the institutions of the european union.
no, mr president, i have not. the presidency of the council, like the commission, has no speaking time, but today we all have to allocate a scarce and non-renewable resource, namely time.
i'm sorry for this interruption, too. ladies and gentlemen, the presidency will have to be more strict in its consideration of requests for a procedural matter from now on, because you have resorted to this procedure again and again for purposes for which it is not intended.
mr president, if we envisage europe becoming the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world, we need to boost investment in education and in the field of research and development. unfortunately, europe now suffers from high emigration of our own researchers towards the usa. in today’s europe the best way for a researcher to excel is by joining a leading american university. we need to compete with the usa by improving our policies to help our scholars remain in the european union. we need to launch a european research area, with the aim of analysing and finding ways to improve the field of research and make it a useful tool for the needs and purposes of our researchers. i believe we must link the lisbon strategy to the bologna process in order to establish a good connection between our university system and our economic and welfare policy objectives. if we do not improve the current educational and r&d instruments at eu member state level and at the level of supra-state bodies, what is known as the lisbon strategy will prove to be a big failure.
i would like to say that i agree with mr posselt's protest, because i believe that in this parliament we should not sacrifice substance for form, and if a debate is announced with the commission and the council, the council should be present. mr president, i would like to say that, as if the situation in the middle east and palestine were not complicated enough after the triumph of hamas, the assault by israeli troops on the jericho prison - which i think we should deplore - adds another element of complication and has unleashed this wave of indiscriminate violence against citizens and interests of the european union, which we must condemn in all our resolve. mr president, i would like to ask the commission what the criteria will be - because i know that they have been discussed in the informal foreign ministers' council - that the european commission and the council, which is unfortunately still absent, will follow in relation to the european union's aid to palestine and whether they will insist, as is logical, on the need to demand that hamas renounce violence and recognize the state of israel and the previous agreements. secondly, mr president, i would like to ask the commission, in connection with the issue of iran, which has been referred to the united nations security council, whether the commission prefers a gradual approach, i.e. that the security council issues a statement, or expects it to impose sanctions. on enlargement, i would like to know, mr president, in view of the statements by the french minister of the interior, mr sarkozy, that there is a certain fatigue with enlargement and his request for a council debate in june on the question of the limits on the absorption capacity of the european union - we shall see mr brok's report on the next item on the agenda - whether the commission shares mr sarkozy's request to the council and whether it thinks that the austrian presidency of the union should give a definitive answer on the geographical limits of our political project.
mr president, i fully understand the pressures on the agenda of our parliament, but you have said that we have a certain agenda, and what cannot be done is to put an item on the agenda saying that we are going to deal with the informal foreign ministers' council when it turns out that the commissioner responsible for most of the items relating to the council has decided that it will be done at a later stage of our debate. i think that what mr posselt and mrs pack have proposed is entirely justified. if the commissioner responsible is not here to deal with the main issues of the informal foreign ministers' council, let us deal with mr brok's report and let us deal with this point when the commissioner responsible comes, because it is not acceptable to allocate the issues without hearing the views of the members.
mr president, commissioner, we are holding this debate this afternoon in the face of extremely serious developments on the energy markets, particularly electricity and gas. we are faced with takeovers induced by governments - as in spain - or prevented by governments - as in france. all this is a setback, a setback for the european union. we are witnessing political speeches by senior officials from important european countries who do not hesitate to call into question the basic principles of the european union: the free movement of capital or full competition on the markets. speeches, such as those we have heard in the last few days, from ministers who seem to be talking about planning: economic planning of the most outdated and failed kind. they speak shamelessly of protectionism, economic patriotism, nationalism, and what they are doing is populist talk of the worst kind. in the face of this, we must clearly commit ourselves to the construction of europe, which is the free integration of markets, recognizing that there are asymmetries in those markets. of course there are asymmetries! do we know of any single example of economic integration in which there have been no asymmetries? and yet here we are, we have arrived where we have arrived, with problems and difficulties in the face of which these political speeches only create more problems and more difficulties. we are talking about strategic sectors, but communications, transport and finance are no less so. we call on the european commission to put the objective and ideal of european integration ahead of these nationalist temptations and to give priority to the objective of building a single market in the face of populist talk of isolation. in short, we call on the european commission to assume its role as guarantor of the treaties and to promote real policies of development and employment for all european citizens. (applause from the right)
mr president, i share the commissioner's view that there is no point in talking about national champions or continental giants and that the approach in competition law is to decide on a case-by-case basis. competition policy is key, but it does not solve everything in the energy field, and neither does internal market policy. to talk about energy is to talk about security and the general interest. energy is vital and essentially part of the current competence of the member states. there are currently 25 energy markets with wide disparities, asymmetries in regulation and operators operating under different strategic choices and foreign policy commitments. a homogeneous system with harmonised starting conditions is necessary. the large operators cannot impose or predetermine these conditions. a european energy market with european energy services will not be born alone, but as the fruit of the european method, of common action and commitment. europe needs an agenda and leadership to make this happen. the socialists are in favour of a european energy policy, as envisaged for the first time in the european constitution. more than words of resentment against patriotism, intelligent actions in favour of europeanism are needed.
mr president, when i hear the principle of free movement of capital being treated as sacrosanct in this house, forgetting the social objectives which are contained in the treaty, such as employment, the development of a balanced economy or the maintenance of solidarity and cohesion, i get the impression that some members of this parliament have not read the treaties of the european union. in the case of public tenders for public supply contracts, in general, account must be taken, for example, of the interests of workers, which are recognised in the directive on public supply contracts, and, secondly, of public service obligations. as mr turmes said earlier, at the moment in particular the large multinationals are demanding more from their subscribers in certain countries than in countries where there is no such free movement. those of us from peripheral island regions are asking ourselves who is going to pay the additional bill that will arise for these deficit regions. finally, i would like to say that it is not true that the directive on public procurement does not provide for political intervention: article 4 (5) provides for the introduction of exceptional measures depending on national circumstances. the european union regulators will have to take this into account.
mr president, i will follow my compatriot sánchez presedo and refer to the case of the takeover bids, in the plural, on the endesa company. what has the spanish socialist government done in this case? first, it has systematically occupied all the regulatory bodies and the competition tribunal. for the first time in the history of spanish democracy, all three are presided over by people of proven militancy. secondly, it has openly supported a certain takeover bid for the company endesa, to the extent that the council of ministers approved it against the report-decree of the court of protection of competition. thirdly, it has erected a wall - repeated today by the minister for economic affairs and the minister for industry - against the takeover bid by another community company. the minister of industry, at the president's shout of 'they will not pass', deployed all the weapons of 'massive obstruction' to the point of changing the rules of the game in the middle of the match - which, incidentally, had to be rectified in the section between the council of ministers and the official state gazette - turning spain into a kind of banana republic in which legal security is trampled. and if we are talking about economic patriotism, what spain needs to continue to grow and create jobs is more competition and not more protectionism, more liberalism and not political meddling or political interference, more energy security, which means integration into europe, and not remaining an island on this issue. i would ask the commission first of all to clarify the political doubts surrounding these operations. i asked the commissioner, at the first moment this takeover took place, to advocate the resolution of the matter, because i warned her of the political risks involved in this takeover. he didn't want to do it, and today we're where we are. secondly, i ask you to ensure that the competition rules are applied as they are. thirdly, as she has said, i ask you to integrate into a common market, which will be the only way to have energy sufficiency, cheap energy and an internal market, which is what we are striving for. that is spanish patriotism and that is european patriotism.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the euro-mediterranean policy and the preparation of the next meeting of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly in brussels.
mr president, allow me first of all to thank you for being here and, above all, to congratulate you on having successfully conducted the work of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly for 12 months, during which time it has been the duty of this house to take the lead in its work. we must be able to recognize what we do right and also what we do wrong. in this case, let's acknowledge what we do well. the euro-mediterranean process has been a success and so has the barcelona summit last november. we are dealing with a living and developing process. let us ask ourselves the question of the cost of the non-existence of the euro-mediterranean process in the light of, for example, the events we have experienced in connection with the cartoon crisis or what happened yesterday in jericho. it would be huge: how to establish dialogue, how to find ways of working together to solve problems. the action plan, adopted in barcelona, has extremely important points - some have already been mentioned. i would like to mention something that i think is substantial: yes to the free trade area, but with economic and social cohesion as well. we know a lot about this in europe and it will be the key element for the success of the first objective. the code of conduct on combating terrorism was also discussed. in an area like this, such a code of conduct was unimaginable just a few years ago. today we have it. the barcelona summit also endorsed the joint spanish-turkish initiative on the alliance of civilizations, which does not mean accepting cultural relativism but, precisely, directing cultures in the same direction: the defence of democracy, freedom, human rights and equality between human beings. in this context, the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly is an extremely important forum for political debate. i think that, in view of the meeting on 26 and 27, we need to do four things: speed up decision-making, refocus the debates on committee rapporteurs, get the commission and the council to attend and participate, as president borrell asked this morning at the beginning of our session, as events demand, and finally have civil society with us. this is gonna get us on the right track.
mr president, with my limited time i would like to make a very specific proposal. i obviously agree with all the opinions already expressed on the events in jericho. from a political point of view, now more than ever, in this spiral of violence and after the conflict of mohammed's cartoons, we must seek coexistence in the mediterranean. in the context of the apem committee responsible for cultural affairs, we have proposed the creation of a cultural contact committee composed of wise, respected and conversational people, to respond to cultural and religious conflicts, to mediate, clarify and dispel cultural and religious tension between the two shores of the mediterranean. the anna lindh foundation, based in alexandria, could very well organise this committee of scholars, who could act in a preventive way in similar conflicts, to clarify the misunderstanding of the other's culture, to clarify the doubts about what really happened. i believe that with this, at the assembly on the 26th, we can take a step towards the tolerance we want in the mediterranean.
mr president, the outcome document of the united nations summit in september provided a basis, in some cases a minimum, on which to build institutional reforms. this is what happened with the human rights council: only the commitment to create it was reached, the rest was up in the air. it was difficult to reach an agreement within a few months to launch the body to replace the discredited commission on human rights. president eliasson's final proposal, which has just been voted on with broad support in new york, is the fruit of difficult negotiation. it was not an optimal proposal - it fell short of european ambitions - but it creates a new body that is certainly better than what we have now. the members of the new council will be elected by an absolute majority of the assembly, which means that a minimum of 96 votes is required. in addition, during their term of office, all members of the council will be subject to scrutiny and may even be suspended, as has been said. the frequency and duration of the meetings will also be much higher than those of the present commission on human rights, as we have requested. the new council is therefore a clear step forward in relation to the unhrc. i have to say, however, that i regret that the quota of countries allocated to the western european group is less than what we enjoyed in the commission. mr president, i would have liked to see this proposal by mr eliasson adopted by consensus, but it has finally been put to the vote. i am very sorry that the united states has voted no. it is a key country in the united nations and i hoped that the initiatives would succeed so that they would be associated with mr eliasson's proposal and that the new council would finally be born with the support of washington. but i am glad that they have in any case ensured their constructive cooperation with the new council. the work and functioning of the council will also be reviewed after five years, which will enable us to overcome the shortcomings of the new mechanism, one of the most ambitious objectives of the outcome document of the september summit. mr president, the fight against poverty is a priority in this document and i would like to remind you that poverty should be considered, as this parliament has already said, as a violation of human rights, because it is an attack on the dignity of the person and prevents the enjoyment of other basic rights.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, as our rapporteur has rightly said, i believe that quality is the great asset of european agriculture. in the face of a global market in which we must compete, increasingly, for low labour costs, low environmental and hygiene requirements, i.e. lower prices, i believe that quality must make the difference. for this to happen, we need - and we are working on it - a quality guarantee and certification system which is simpler, easily recognisable and trusted by consumers, both in europe and beyond. the recognition of these qualifications abroad, in the wto, is also essential to establish a market for high-quality agricultural products. we are on this, and i think the work done in the committee on agriculture and rural development supports this position. the first challenge is to further strengthen the system of our consumers and producers. a more flexible system is needed, with clearly defined deadlines and procedures, and with a proper allocation of powers. i think that the consumer's perception is as important as that of the industry itself, which must be shown the economic advantages of a high-quality market: the security of a rating system that controls well products that do not meet the conditions set and an agile and not too burdensome procedure. i think that the issue we are dealing with is very important, especially for countries like mine, which are pioneers in organic farming. i think that the subject deserves, as i have said, wider consideration, which we must tackle as soon as possible after the wto requirements have been met, by simplifying access to the system for products from third countries. in the further study and reflection that we will have in this house, i believe it is essential to listen to the sector and to be attentive to its needs, always thinking of the projection towards the global market of our products and of our quality, which are the values of a truly competitive european agri-food sector.
mr president, the report on designations of origin, geographical indications and traditional terms which the executive committee has presented to us states that the commission's intention in drawing up the report was to clarify procedures and to adapt community legislation to a world trade organisation ruling. the protection of geographical indications is of course of great importance, because it is essential to inform consumers correctly about the quality, origin and production methods of the products they consume. it therefore seems logical that consumers themselves should be spared confusion and that the use of the community logo on products from third countries should not be authorised. we have also an obligation as members of this house to defend the diversity and richness of europe's gastronomic heritage, which has, up to now, enjoyed an international reputation. the judgment of the world trade organisation court must be complied with - there is no doubt about that, that is what it is for - and the regulation must be amended to ensure that it is in line with those requirements. however, as long as the wto itself does not include the international system of geographical indications in the debate and we therefore do not have an international register of geographical indications, it does not seem very sensible for the amendments to our community regulation to go beyond what is strictly necessary. in addition, it is necessary to ensure that changes to the regulation do not lead to delays in registration and discrimination between the european union and third countries, because the community authorisation procedure requires very high quality and food safety requirements to be met. could the commission give assurances that products from third countries meet the same standards? i honestly don't think so. i therefore believe that the amendment tabled by the ppe-de should be supported and i also believe that the differences in conception between the member states on health systems must mean that farmers and producers are not the only ones who pay for the extension of the rules on food hygiene to cover designations of origin.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission thanks the committee on legal affairs for its question and mr lehne for doing a great job here this evening. he presented his views quite clearly. the commission recognises the special role of the legal sector in the good administration of justice and in promoting access to justice – by the way, in response to the example cited by mr lehne, the commission also recognises that supermarkets are very important and very honourable members of our community – we are certainly not challenging this. but we are saying that we need to look afresh at the current regulation of the sector to see what can be modernised to promote new types of services and new ways of doing things. that is in the interests of the users of these key services. so we are proposing that member states use a proportionality test to see how far current regulations are all really serving the public interest. this approach fully respects the subsidiarity principle. it allows for national circumstances, and the special characteristics of the legal sector, to be taken fully into account. the commission certainly agrees with the need for some regulation. i repeat: our initiative is about better regulation, not deregulation. we also recognise that it is the member states’ right to determine the balance between state rules and self-regulation by professional bodies. on the question of the right of member states to fix tariffs, i would underline the position of the commission in its report of february 2004. in our view the arduino judgment suggests that state measures delegating regulatory powers to professional bodies in order to fix tariffs can be challenged under the competition rules – for example, articles 3(1)(g), 10(2) and 81 ec – if the state does not have the final word and exercise effective control of the implementation of these tariffs. we are expecting further clarification on this when the court delivers its preliminary ruling in the macrino case (case c-202/04). finally, there are the internal market rules. these are at issue in another case pending before the european court of justice, the cipolla case (case c-04/04), again concerning the member states’ responsibility for price fixing. the commission considers that minimum prices for lawyers’ services are a restriction on the freedom to provide services because they neutralise the competitive advantage of service providers from other member states. moreover, we see no justification for minimum prices under the proportionality test, since they do not per se guarantee quality, access to justice, or good ethical conduct.
on behalf of the pse group. the question from the committee on legal affairs is timely, mr president, because there is a special need to consider the relations of lawyers and notaries, and of the legal profession in general, as mr lehne has said, with their clients. the european commission should not treat these cases as if they were a simple commercial relationship between customer and service provider. the relationship between lawyer or notary and client affects the smooth running of something so delicate for democracy, as mr lehne has also said, as the administration of justice. the intervention of the bar associations in the various countries is very beneficial for relations, not only corporate but also for defending the public interest. the case law of the court of justice of the european communities, which mrs kroes is so eagerly awaiting, has so far recognised the respect for european law in systems such as the spanish system, which have fee rates that are merely indicative, not minimum, and which are used by the administration of justice to set the sentence in costs, which are ultimately always controlled by the courts. nor should the opposition of lawyers in many countries to the quota litis agreement be questioned. that pact goes against the dignity of work and is a lack of consideration and respect for the profession. the prohibition of the quota litis agreement has also been accepted, mrs kroes, by the national courts. i ask the european commission to respect the functioning of institutions which, like the bar associations and notaries, have generally functioned well for more than two centuries, with the ups and downs and historical interruptions that have taken place. do not forget that constitutions, such as the spanish one, recognize the high role of schools and their high purposes. the european commission should be faithful to the european tradition and not to the new american one. you have to be next to the small law firms. you guys are not making a mistake. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, my speech concerns rule 172 of the minutes of the previous sitting. on tuesday i put a question to the council on a matter of great urgency for my region, the canary islands, on the humanitarian crisis of the migrant shipwrecks, which are arriving in my region by the hundreds. the question was not answered - the council answered very few questions - but i expected to receive at least a written reply. i received the minutes today, thursday, and the answer is not in the minutes either, and i have no way of knowing what it is because parliament's services do not give it to me. i would like to protest against the delay in the operation of the services, because i think that for urgent matters, which is the purpose of these questions, the time between the date on which the question is not answered and the date on which the answer is received is too long, given that the written answer already exists. i wanted to express my protest and i hope to receive a written reply as soon as possible.
member of the commission. mr president, there is much to say about kazakhstan. on the one hand, kazakhstan is and should be a key partner for promoting stability and regional cooperation in central asia. indeed, it is the most important of these countries and it is also rich in energy supplies and therefore it is being courted by many countries today. let us analyse president nazarbayev’s state of the nation address on 1 march. it was very comprehensive on economic development. however, it was not very detailed on the programme of democratic reforms, despite promises of a programme of democratic changes and promises to the international community. the concept of ‘managed democracy’ was reconfirmed; in fact, it was reinforced. let me say a few words about the positive side and the negative side, because we have to see both sides. on a positive note, i would like to welcome kazakhstan’s ratification of the international covenant on civil and political rights and the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights in january this year. this is a good step. we also hope that kazakhstan will now take steps to ratify the optional protocols allowing individual complaints. the continuing moratorium on the death penalty is also a step in the right direction. on the negative side, and as regards issues we should criticise, what has happened to the leading political opposition leader mr sarsenbayev is of the utmost concern to us. his murder points towards a very dangerous trend of criminalisation in kazakh politics. in the absence of clear constitutional mechanisms guaranteeing a peaceful transfer of executive power in kazakhstan, this development is clearly worrying. we have therefore urged the authorities to ensure complete transparency in the investigation process. i am pleased that the fbi can go there, but some europeans should be there as well. we are also following very closely the investigation into the murder of oksana nikitina, the daughter of another prominent member of the opposition. i have also been very troubled by reports on harassment of opposition figures following two peaceful memorial marches in almaty, held after mr sarsenbayev’s funeral. some of you have alluded to that. i would also like to mention the two essential issues of media freedom and restrictions on civil society. we are concerned at reports of numerous instances of harassment of journalists and actions taken against five newspapers and one opposition website. the new law on national security, adopted in july 2005, also permits undue restrictions on civil society and ngo activities. we have welcomed, on the one hand, improvements noted by the osce/odihr in the administration of the december 2005 presidential election – a few of you were there to observe them. however, we also regret that the election did not meet a number of osce commitments and that no action was taken to amend the legislative framework in line with osce/odihr recommendations. we will certainly want to continue to monitor the investigations about alleged malpractices. one lingering core concern is political freedom. for the sake of its internal stability, kazakhstan needs a political opposition and it is urgent for the authorities to legalise political opposition parties and open a real dialogue with them, for example through the state commission on democratisation, which is to be established soon and chaired by president nazarbayev. in particular i think that the kazakh authorities will reconsider their refusal to register the opposition political parties alga and true ak zhol. i would very much welcome it if you form a parliamentary delegation and if you reinforce your cooperation with delegations from kazakhstan. it is another very important channel to give them clear messages and it is also an opportunity. let us not prejudge a decision on kazakhstan’s bid for the chairmanship of the osce in 2009. perhaps it might provide kazakhstan with an important challenge in achieving higher standards of democracy. finally, we are also concerned about reports of numerous instances of harassment of journalists and actions taken against five newspapers and one opposition website. the new law on national security that was adopted in july last year also permits undue restrictions on civil society and ngo activities. i think therefore that this is a country with which we have to engage very strongly but at the same time we have to deliver firm messages.
author. mr president, there are many opportunities now opening up in africa to settle accounts with a past that is often bloodstained. however, moving towards peace requires clearly combating impunity and this, in turn, implies bringing out the truth, however painful, and doing justice. the pinochet and milosevic trials, although imperfect and sadly unfinished, are clear indications of the direction that things should take in africa too. names like charles taylor, mengistu haile mariam or hissène habré, among others, must be added to the list of former dictators who have to appear before national and international justice. there are already some mechanisms for accountability through ad hoc tribunals for the perpetrators of crimes and atrocities, such as those in place in rwanda and sierra leone. but unfortunately, the lack of resources, in some cases of political will and certainly of capacity, often makes these courts inefficient and insufficient. the fight against impunity is without doubt one of the pillars of the union's human rights policy. we must therefore remember that without an international criminal court that establishes individual responsibility as a mechanism for enforcing the law, acts of genocide and flagrant violations of human rights will often go unpunished. we therefore also urge the african union states which have not yet ratified the rome statute to do so and to draw up as soon as possible an action plan for its effective implementation. it would be pretentious - and i do not intend to do so - to give lessons to africa from europe, when we too have many open or badly solved cases of impunity or insufficient justice for former dictators. but i do firmly believe that this is a task that must be tackled universally, jointly from europe and from africa. without truth, without justice and without reparation to the victims, peace is but a dream, but fighting against impunity can help us, one day, to make that dream a reality.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 16 march 2006.
before i analyse the agenda, i must tell you something which is positive for once: positive news concerning the situation in spain, but which, in my opinion, is good news for the whole of europe. i am referring to the statement made public by eta today, in which it announces a permanent ceasefire. (applause) this is a glimpse of a future without terrorist violence. it's a time to demonstrate serenity and prudence. and it is also a moment to remember the victims of terrorism, who have been many. it is a moment of hope, of unity for all democratic political forces. i believe - and i insist - that this is good news not only for spanish society but for the whole of europe, because it shows that terrorism can be fought from the fortress of democracy. thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your applause. (applause) would the political groups like to speak after this statement from the presidency?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, eta's announcement of a permanent ceasefire, which has been confirmed, is extremely hopeful news for all spanish citizens and therefore for all european citizens. we call on all european democrats to unite, now and in the future, to achieve peace once and for all. and i think, mr president, that as you have said - and i say this with deep emotion - this is the moment to remember the victims. (applause from the left)
mr president, the statement by the terrorist group eta does not bring about any change in the situation in spain. the communiqué tells us that eta stops killing for a time that it will decide itself and that it does so to achieve its purportedly political objectives. the only thing this statement does, where there is not a single word of regret, where there is not a single request for forgiveness, where there is not the slightest announcement of submission to the rule of law, is to demonstrate once again the cynicism and moral misery of this criminal group. i hope that the spanish government will only accept a statement by eta: one that announces its dissolution and the surrender of arms and in which it apologizes to so many people to whom it has caused so much suffering and so much unjust pain. (applause from the centre and the right)
thank you all for your reactions to the eta communiqué.
mr president, i think that this is very important news, not only for spain but also for the european union, because eta has indeed announced what it has announced. a new perspective is opening up to explore a negotiation process that will allow for definitive peace in the basque country and, therefore, in part of the european union. we are entering a difficult and difficult phase, and i hope that this european parliament will help in the second instance - because the first is in spain, and it is up to the spanish government - to overcome all the obstacles, which there will certainly be, in this negotiating process. i therefore believe that we are facing a new situation which deserves everyone's attention and support in order to find a final solution to this problem.
mr president, i did not intend to speak after the speech, i am sorry to say, of my colleague mrs dührkop, but after the speech of the vice-president, mr vidal-quadras, i just want to say one thing, because i think we are all united here in calling for the unity of the european democrats to support this process. i just want to say to mr vidal-quadras roca that i hope that his political party and his group will behave in the same way as the socialist group did when the pp and the pp government had the responsibility of starting a negotiating process on the basis of a truce substantially similar to this one, and not with the same content. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate on this subject is closed.
ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to inform you that a delegation from the danish parliament, led by its president, mr christian mejdahl, is attending our plenary session from the official gallery. (applause) i had the opportunity to meet mr mejdahl and his delegation and now i would like to welcome them to our chamber with the warmest of warmth. i hope that their stay in brussels and their visit to the european institutions will be fruitful and positive.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 16 march 2006.
mr schulz, the agenda for the next part-session will be determined by the next conference of presidents. we take note of your wish to have that item included. the conference of presidents will discuss it.
all right, it'll be on the agenda of the next conference of presidents.
thank you very much, congresswoman. we are making considerable progress, because now members who ask to speak on a point of order are already quoting the articles on which it is based. that's a step up. but in addition to quoting them, you should read them, because if you do you will notice that these articles say that requests to this effect must be submitted in writing at least three hours before the beginning of the sitting. i cannot therefore submit your proposal to the house on the basis of these articles. i am sorry, but that is what our rules of procedure say, so we will discuss it at the next conference of presidents.
mr borghezio, members cannot come to the house and ask for the floor and take it to explain whatever problem they have. you have not cited any article to justify your intervention. the problem you raise is strictly an internal problem of your political group. the presidency has no information on this and no power to intervene in the way in which its political group convenes or fails to convene its members on any subject. i am therefore sorry, mr borghezio, that i was not able to interrupt you as i should have.
mrs buitenweg, when the rules are not right, they are called bureaucratic. the rules are the rules, and if you want to know what the rules say - and you should know what the rules say - the rules do not only speak of the written submission before the house: they say that it must be tabled by a committee - that is not the case - by a political group - that is not the case - or by at least 37 members - that is not the case. therefore, none of the requirements laid down in our rules of procedure are met. the president must comply with the rules and act accordingly: the matter is closed. it is closed: 37 members before the sitting; before the sitting. i am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but the rules of procedure require that a written report be tabled before the sitting. if they were so interested, they could have taken the trouble to put the request in writing before the plenary, because i suppose they did not discover the issue of belarus half an hour ago, did they? please read the rules and apply them.
thank you very much, mr poettering. the house is sovereign and will do what it deems appropriate in the light of the support that is expressed, but the president has to follow the rules of procedure.
mr cohn-bendit, we are dealing with a point of order; i ask you not to go into the merits of the matter.
we must adapt our rules of procedure, but we must respect them, because if we do not respect them today by saying that they are a bureaucratic piece of legislation, tomorrow others may also believe that they are a bureaucratic piece of legislation and we will be left without any rules. so if a petition signed by 37 members or a political group is tabled this afternoon - as required by the rules of procedure - the debate on belarus will take place tomorrow. but you do the necessary paperwork, please. (the order of business is thus established)
before i give the floor to the speakers on behalf of the groups, i would like to point out to the house that the peruvian foreign minister, mr maúrtua de romaña, is in the diplomatic gallery. (applause) i would like to take this opportunity to thank the government of peru for the invaluable help it gave us in organizing the latin america and caribbean conference in lima last june. all the members of this parliament who took part in that conference - in particular the vice-president, mr dos santos - were impressed by the attention given to it and its excellent organisation. please convey our thanks, mr minister, to the government of your country.
the next item is the commission statement on the 2007 annual political strategy. i have the floor for the president of the commission, who will be sorry for the delay.
mr president, in the coming days the heads of state and government will discuss the possibility of launching a common energy policy. governments and citizens alike have become aware of the seriousness of the situation, the vulnerability of our supply system, our dependence on imports and the urgency of taking measures that are commensurate with the circumstances. the european parliament fully shares the concerns of the citizens and that is why we must send a clear and strong message from this house today in favour of the union's energy independence. to do this, we need to support a comprehensive energy mix, with a prominent role for emission-free energy sources such as nuclear and renewables. the time has come to seriously consider investing in alternative supply routes to reduce the impact of situations such as the recent crisis between russia and ukraine. on the demand side, we must emphasise the improvement of energy efficiency at all levels of consumption and production. and in this respect, the dissemination of information and good practice is crucial. we must make a strong commitment to a genuinely free internal energy market, improving infrastructure and interconnections and abandoning the idea of the great national champions, which is now obsolete. we are in the 21st century, in an increasingly integrated european union, and this is no time to take steps backwards. let there be no mistake: protectionism is not only harmful to our economies and our competitiveness, but it is harmful first and foremost to the consumer. in the globalized world, national giants are dwarfs in the global sphere, and europeanist speeches are of little use when, when decisions are being taken, words are not followed by coherent actions. i would like to conclude, mr president, by asking the council not to waste this opportunity.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have listened carefully and i have noted that there is a consensus on this. i would like to say that the council is naturally keeping its commitments. i have said and i will continue to say that we believe that we are very much in compliance with these commitments to the acp states. the question of allocation and distribution of funds is also very important, because structural problems are naturally discussed in this context. of course, it is also in our interest to have as little left over as possible. this requires careful consideration. we will do so and we will come back to it. the question of increasing oda was raised. i would point out that the internal financing agreement also provides for the possibility of co-financing by the member states to or through the edf. the question of economic partnerships was raised on several occasions. in the context of economic partnerships, which we also see as instruments of development aid, we are concerned with helping the acp states to develop their economic integration and competitiveness by building capacity in trade. the acp regions are thus strengthened in their regional political and economic integration and in their integration into the world economy. we therefore believe it is particularly important to support the epo with the aid of the 10th edf. finally, the increase in appropriations by bulgaria and romania was mentioned again. the council followed the practice of including the countries which had already joined the eu at that time, romania and bulgaria, in the 10th edf appropriations applicable from 2008. i think that is the correct approach and i do not think that the council has acted unfairly here. much of what has been said and demanded here is still being negotiated. of course, all this is also linked to the question of the financial perspective. i would also like to reiterate that we, as the austrian presidency, are always ready to discuss development issues with you. the commission's proposal to inform the european parliament's development committee after the forthcoming general affairs and external relations council, which will be devoted exclusively to development issues on 11 april, is also to be understood in this sense. the 24th of april has already been informally set for this purpose.
i rise here today to highlight a great humanitarian tragedy that is taking place right now. since the first of january this year, more than a thousand african migrants have arrived in the waters of the canary islands, but there are as many who have drowned on the crossing from mauritania to the canary islands. it's a real human bleed. the spanish government and the mauritanian government have begun to work together, but i hope that the european union, and in particular the commission and the council, will soon take measures to help resolve this great human tragedy.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i agree with a number of the points that have been made. in view of the fact that the information coming from the commission would be limited, the commission is of course prepared to give all the information at its disposal. perhaps you feel that there is too little information, but i will make sure, at least as far as i am concerned, that you have all the information i have. as regards the need for large funds, if additional funds are needed, they will necessarily have to be provided by the member states. you know very well what amounts are available under the european development fund: i only have the funds that are allocated to me. i would like to make sure that there is no misunderstanding about mrs kinnock's speech. when i spoke of "academic" debate on the alternative, it was not impertinence. we can indeed make alternative proposals to those who do not want to negotiate, but as things stand, and as you know, madam, they are all negotiating. perhaps the term was not the right one, but to open a debate on alternatives while they are all negotiating does not seem to me to be useful now. i would like to say that i agree with the other points you have made to a large extent. so i agree with your remarks about market access, but you must also admit that market access is not everything. our experience of 50 years of liberalisation makes it clear that this is not enough and that there are a whole series of other elements to be highlighted. you cannot find anyone more convinced than i am that we must focus on the benefits of development, and i fully agree with that principle. as far as production problems are concerned, it is obvious that this is one of the accompanying elements which is probably one of the most useful for the countries in question. it is at this level that the necessary resources can be provided to finance technical or technological upgrading, technology transfer, product quality, in short to finance the added value so necessary to gain access to the market. i agree with you that the european union should not impose dictates. that would be completely contrary to my convictions and my view of development. there is a negotiation and in a negotiation each partner makes his or her case. there's no dictating at that level. i agree with mrs martens that the timetable must be realistic. i fully agree that we must safeguard access to water, energy and a whole range of other essential goods. i fully share your views on this and i am totally reluctant to liberalize these sectors. mrs kinnock, on the question of the dismissal of the secretary i would have asked for, firstly, i have no power to do so and, secondly, i did not ask for anyone to be dismissed. what is true - because i want to take full responsibility for what i did - is that, in response to a request from the secretary of cemac, the central african economic and monetary community, i simply said that i did not agree to accept a request for additional funds for someone who did nothing, and i can testify that he did nothing, and i am not the only one complaining about it. the court of first instance found that the commission had not infringed article 85 of the treaty by failing to take account of the fact that the commission had not been able to establish that the applicant had not been misled by the commission's decision. the work that should be done is not done. we are not getting the support we are asking for. there's a problem of transparency in its management. in these circumstances, it seems to me that it is my duty to recall a number of basic principles of governance, especially when it comes to a request for financial resources from the commission. so i'm gonna take credit for what i did, but i never asked for anyone's dismissal and i don't have the authority to do that. finally, to sum up, i would say that the package in the negotiations must be comprehensive and coherent. peter mendelsson is negotiating the epas and i'm in a supporting position. so we're working in parallel. my starting point is obviously development, economic development as a driver of growth. i would also remind you that countries have antipoverty agendas which include this aspect. the regions covered by economic integration agendas ask us to support them, which we do. this integration includes a trade liberalization component between them, which we support and the epas support this request for regional integration. i can understand that some of your fears are justified, but i can assure you, at least as far as i am concerned, that the development aspect will be given priority. this is the focus of the negotiations and the accompanying measures should allow, at the pace these countries are able to go, for an upgrade which should, in the end, give them much easier access not only to integrated regional markets but also to the world market. in conclusion, i understand all your reservations, all your worries. i am ready - and i think it would be very important - to have an exchange of views with you, also on all the accompanying measures. i am asking for all the creativity that you are capable of and i am completely open to these questions, without any a priori. in any case, i am more than willing to continue to look for the best possible solutions to support developing countries through the epas.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the report by mr jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on european political parties (2005/2224 (ini)) (a6-0042/2006).
mr president, i am a real person who is going to talk about real issues! lo digo para el señor allister y para el señor bonde. la diferencia entre los últimos oradores y la mayor parte de esta casa, es que nosotros —la mayor parte de esta casa— lo que queremos es construir, queremos hacer cosas juntos, queremos que europa avance, porque creemos que europa es una buena solución para resolver los problemas de la gente. es decir, no estamos encerrados en posturas defensivas, no hacemos discursos descalificatorios diciendo que todo es discriminatorio. no: simplemente, lo que queremos es poner en común la ilusión de las distintas partes de esta casa, de las distintas familias políticas de esta casa, para buscar soluciones a los problemas que tiene la gente. y ésa es la diferencia fundamental entre unos y otros, señor presidente; no nos engañemos. y, en eso, los partidos políticos juegan una función capital: partidos políticos en europa que han surgido, en realidad, de los grupos parlamentarios de esta casa, como surgieron también, en su origen, en los distintos estados nacionales. el origen de los partidos políticos está en los grupos parlamentarios de esta casa. y yo creo que, si un problema tienen los partidos políticos europeos, es que siguen siendo, en realidad, federaciones, asociaciones, de partidos políticos nacionales. ésta es la realidad. es verdad que hemos progresado en los últimos años, pero no suficientemente. es verdad que tenemos que hacer muchas más cosas. y ¿por qué? porque yo creo que los partidos políticos a nivel europeo pueden ser capaces de animar el debate europeo y de evitar que cualquier debate sobre temas europeos a nivel nacional se convierta en un debate sobre temas domésticos, que es lo que vemos que sucede una y otra vez. yo creo, por ejemplo, que si el consejo europeo hubiera atendido la petición de este parlamento de celebrar, ahí donde se celebraran, los referendos sobre la constitución europea el mismo día, habríamos conseguido hablar de temas europeos y no de temas domésticos. pero, mirando hacia el futuro, señor presidente, yo creo que, en un momento en el que cada vez somos más los que sentimos la necesidad de las disposiciones de la constitución europea, los partidos políticos europeos, en esta fase de reflexión —y me alegro de que esté aquí la vicepresidenta, señora wallström, que encabeza desde la comisión estas iniciativas—, tienen que desempeñar un papel muy importante. vamos a tener aquí, el 8 y el 9 de mayo, el primer foro interparlamentario. pues bien, yo creo que el papel de los partidos políticos europeos va a ser clave para unir las sinergias de los diputados europeos y los diputados nacionales e ir en la dirección que queremos la mayoría de los que creemos que la constitución europea es necesaria para hacer avanzar a europa. por tanto, ahí tenemos unos grandes retos, y evidentemente los grandes retos —el señor onesta tenía razón— necesitan, al final, no solamente buenas palabras, sino también colmar sus necesidades financieras. yo creo que este informe del señor leinen, a quien quiero felicitar expresamente, pone de relieve cuáles son las dificultades que tiene el reglamento y cuáles son las fórmulas que tenemos que utilizar para superarlas mejor. y, por eso, el grupo del partido popular europeo, señor presidente, va a apoyar el informe del señor leinen y también va a votar afirmativamente las enmiendas presentadas por el partido de los socialistas europeos, por el señor onesta en nombre del grupo de los verdes —aquella que se refiere a asociaciones juveniles— y por el señor maaten y la señora de sarnez. yo creo que así damos una muestra, frente a aquellos que sólo quieren destruir, señor presidente, de que lo que nosotros queremos hacer es construir.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, may i begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his report, which i fully support, and on all the work he has been doing in the field of european political parties. mr leinen is a tireless advocate of european political parties and their development and, moreover, one of the fathers of the current rules. i have shared with him and with some of the members here, as deputy secretary-general of the party of european socialists, the hard battles to get it approved. this regulation severed the financial and administrative umbilical cord linking these parties to the political groups in the european parliament. its aim was to remove these parties from the financial and administrative opacity in which they were and to achieve clear and transparent rules regulating their activity and financing. however, this regulation is only a first step, a temporary solution until the adoption of a real statute on european parties and their funding, as provided for in article 191 of the treaty on european union. we therefore ask the commission to submit a proposal to bring this statute into force before the next european elections, in order to ensure a competitive electoral process at european level. it is also necessary to give these parties legal personality, based on community law, which ensures their transparent and effective functioning in all member states. the role of european political parties is essential to bring the union closer to citizens and to encourage their political participation, so that they feel part of and play a leading role in a common political destiny and project. these parties also underpin the transnational dimension of the political process of integration of the union. we must also open up and explore ways of creating european political foundations at the expense of the union's budget and under the democratic control of this parliament. these foundations will be an essential instrument for extending the activities of european political parties and strengthening the link with citizens and will play an important role in providing information and political training. mr president of the committee on constitutional affairs, continue your work and have my full support.
mr president, i think that the rapporteur, mr leinen, has done an excellent job. i congratulate you on that. but we must be honest with ourselves: the first to disbelieve in european political parties are sometimes the national parties that make them up. how often have we heard our colleagues in our country say: 'yes, the party we belong to at european level is very important, it does many things, very good things, but the fundamental thing is here'. that's what they say everywhere. and here we have to apply a very simple phrase: function creates organism. as long as we have european laws in force - starting with the constitution - which require european political parties to exist with specific tasks, we will have won this battle for european integration. for example, the european constitution says that when the council makes its proposal for the election of the president of the commission by this house, it must take account of the results of the european elections. and if that is so, then the european parties will have to think very carefully about their list leaders and their programmes, and then it will make sense, not transnational lists - we will ignore this term - but european lists, which is the most accurate definition: european lists. naturally, we now have a period of reflection and debate ahead of us. we must be the backbone of that debate: this house and the european political parties. the european convention was a success because it worked on the basis of european political families, and the interparliamentary meetings and the reflection period will also be a success if we are able to work as political families, to understand each other and to reach agreements. and for that the role of the european political parties is fundamental, as it will be when there are european referendums and we avoid the spectacle of national referendums tricked by the problems of each of the countries. in this case, this report is a step further and a good step.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, this has very much been a debate about democracy: its strengths, its shortcomings and the challenges that come from a rapidly changing reality. until now, the system we have for exercising and organising democracy goes through political parties. that is the way we do it in europe, at national, local and regional level, and at european level. it is not perfect and it requires a constant effort to mobilise people, because we know that the biggest enemy is always ignorance and total apathy. that goes for the european level as well. we can state that it is no longer enough to leave the decision-making and the democracy to a small political elite; at least, that is my analysis of the situation. we also have to mobilise people at european level to allow for a democratic development also at european level. it is through political parties that we can make people accountable, that we can create openness and transparency, and that we can have effective decision-making. it is still only embryonic: even if we have succeeded in creating ten european parties, we cannot say that we have succeeded totally. however, it has helped and it does not contradict that we also have to invest in making sure that the national parties integrate european affairs into their political agenda, discussions and decisions. we have to do both and we have to move on both fronts. in addition it is necessary to make sure that there is european media that can cover what goes on. this also requires some efforts and promotion from our side, to make sure that the reporting is there as well – for citizens, for democracy, to be able to follow what goes on and to take a position on that. i would add that it is also necessary to create meeting places, citizen-to-citizen opportunities to discuss. those three building blocks are necessary to develop democracy at european level. it can be virtual or geographical or real, but all three elements are necessary. european political parties are a very important element. you can discuss the criteria; we have to discuss the things that have been mentioned here. i am very prudent in not promising what could come out of the review of the financial regulation now. i think it would be very unwise of me to promise that the commission will come forward at such-and-such a time with a new proposal for this or that. it has to come in connection with and after the discussion we are having now on reviewing the financial regulation and the implementing rules. this can come as a result of that and after that. however, i think you have created and presented the elements and building blocks necessary to discuss what to do with european political parties. as many have pointed out, however, there is a link to other organisations as well, and we have to take that into account so that it can be a balanced proposal one day. it is wise to also have a vision as to when this could be ready, but i cannot make a promise on that on behalf of the commission today. this is a very important debate. i welcome the amendments underlining the importance of promoting equality between men and women, and i would point out – as i see mrs gurmai there – i think this is absolutely evident. had mr allister still been here i would have asked him who he would vote for. would he vote for somebody and be willing to pay for somebody who says ‘i enter this room or this institution with ambitions and hopes and dreams and i promise to do my best and work for a future for the european union’? or would you vote for someone who says ‘i do not believe in this institution, i do not think it should exist, i think it deals with nonsense issues and i am not going to pay too much attention to what goes on here’? who would you be willing to pay for as a normal taxpayer? i think it speaks for itself, but in the end this is really also a matter of the choice that you have to give to people, as mr corbett and others have pointed out. it is a choice to give to the european citizens and that is, in the end a matter of democracy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the next item is the report by mr klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on european contract law and revision of the acquis: prospects for the future (2005/2022 (ini)) (a6-0055/2006).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, firstly i would like to thank mr lehne for his report. the commission wholeheartedly welcomes parliament’s interest in the common frame of reference – cfr – on contract law and in the review of the consumer acquis. the commission is happy to see that parliament shares very similar views regarding the need to deliver a high level of consumer protection in the revision of the consumer acquis. parliament considers that the development of the cfr is unpredictable and that the ultimate long-term outcome might be a european code of obligations, or even a full-blown european civil code. i would stress that the commission, and commissioner kyprianou personally, has clearly and repeatedly stated that it has no intention of producing a european civil code. the commission’s view is that the cfr will be a better law-making toolbox for achieving coherence when revising existing legislation and adopting new instruments in the area of contract law, particularly consumer contract law, on which the currency of our work has been refocused. the legal form of this instrument, and if and to what extent it could be binding, has yet to be decided. if the commission considers that this toolbox will be of more than internal use for the commission, such a decision would clearly be a political decision and would need to be taken by the commission, parliament and the council. the commission understands fully that parliament wants to be kept informed of and involved in the ongoing work on the cfr. we therefore welcome parliament’s involvement in the cfr process, in particular the creation of the working party. the commission will continue to keep parliament informed of developments in the most appropriate way. commissioner kyprianou will discuss regularly with parliament’s relevant committees the progress of cfr work and, in particular the intermediate politically relevant steps. i would like to conclude by thanking parliament for its encouragement and support for our work on this important dossier.
on behalf of the pse group. i think that the time is right for this debate, mr president, because it is a subject which really invites us to reflect; we have very little in our hands. it is not a heated debate about something that is going to be done now: it is something that the commission is beginning to do and that we in parliament are supporting. we are probably among the few here who believe in this aim or in this possibility, but i believe that a unified market, an internal market of the european union, is not possible without contractual rules. and when i say contractual rules, i mean precisely that: rules. i am concerned about the commissioner's statements that we do not know what kind of legal instrument we are going to have. there is no soft law in the european union; the great advantage of the european union is that it has developed a solid law, a positive law, which is applied by the courts of justice, and which we must be precise about. the most important thing in law is legal precision: precision as to the nature of the obligations and precision as to the content. and so i think it is important that we start thinking now about definite legal instruments which have a binding value and are not purely recommendatory. neither self-regulation nor co-regulation nor soft law can solve the legal problems that arise in this area. and in this respect the commission's report does not only refer to the possibilities of contract law, but to a review of the acquis in the field of consumer protection. i think we must bear in mind that at the moment no one can think that, in matters of recruitment, the consumer can be treated in the same way as a company. the relationship between consumers and businesses is of a different legal nature and the existing legal systems have to recognise this. and that is what the amendments by my colleagues mr berger and mr patrie are aimed at: they are aimed at maintaining a certain degree of consumer protection. in any case, i should like to thank mr lehne and mrs wallis for the work they have done and also to thank the commission for continuing along this path, because i believe that the future of the european union will have to be shaped by private law, as mr gargani has said, and, above all, at the most immediate stage, by binding contract law and not by mere recommendations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to join in congratulating the rapporteur, mr parish, on the work he has done in the committee on agriculture and rural development. the resolution which parliament is to adopt today welcomes the commission's initiatives to promote non-food crops and, given their vital importance, calls on it to implement them as soon as possible. initiatives such as the biomass plan or the new biofuel legislation are expected with particular interest in depressed or experiencing particular difficulties rural areas. for example, in my country, spain, non-food cropping is seen as a real socioeconomic solution for those areas which have already been affected by the reduction or disappearance of indigenous crops, as is the case with the recent cmo for cotton or beet. but for these crops to be a real alternative, they must be made viable through a price policy and tax incentives that guarantee their profitability. the commissioner knows very well that it is not just a question of offering solutions to farmers in difficulty. with this new initiative, our environment will be improved by the contribution of clean fuels. business will be done, but depopulation will be fought. i mean, we're all gonna win. i would therefore like to ask the commission whether it intends to listen to this parliament and, as our resolution states, to draw up a recommendation to the member states on tax incentives and reductions in duties and taxes. such an act, which, as we know very well, would not be legislative, would be a great help in encouraging the use of renewable energy and stimulating the cultivation of the raw materials that make it possible. i think we should not miss this opportunity. a very important subject is being raised, namely the energy debate, at a time when we are in the midst of a debate in this parliament.
mr president, it is a minor amendment to clarify the text: it is a question of replacing the term 'historically' by the term 'frequently'.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 23 march 2006.
the conference of presidents has asked me to inform the house that the former president of liberia, mr charles taylor, was captured on 29 march and extradited to sierra leone to stand trial before the special court for sierra leone. as you know, taylor has been indicted for war crimes and crimes against humanity. he faces charges including responsibility for murder, rape, recruitment of child soldiers and mutilation during the civil war in sierra leone. the european parliament took up this case and, in its resolution on the case of charles taylor of 24 february 2005 and in its resolution on human rights in the world of 28 march 2005, called for taylor's extradition to the special court. having voted for these resolutions, i believe that parliament can today applaud this important victory in the fight against impunity for war criminals. i would remind you that the new liberian presidency has been invited to speak in the plenary, and i hope that it will be able to do so soon.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 30 march 2006. the following amendments have been proposed:tuesday:the socialist group in the european parliament proposes that the vote on mr őry's report, scheduled for tomorrow, be moved to wednesday.
you are asking, if i understand correctly, that the debate be held as scheduled, but that there be no vote on it.
we are talking, for the moment, about trends. can you vote on trends?
i understand that the feeling of bias may turn into a concrete proposal not to vote at this part-session. (parliament adopted the proposal) wednesday:the council has completed the title of the last of the statements it will make this afternoon, which will be as follows: 'measures to improve road safety (safety) and transport safety measures, including financing (security) '.
the commission takes note of what mr swoboda has just said, of course. terrorism and road safety are two very different things, but the council is not here to take note of your remarks. we'll pass it along. it would be good if we did not just talk about road safety, if the petition was intended to also address the issue of safety against terrorism. thursday:the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left proposes that a commission statement on the situation in south-eastern turkey be added as the first item on thursday's agenda, concluding with a vote on a resolution.
i'm glad i cleared it up. so there will be a debate but it will not be followed by a vote on a resolution. the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats also propose that the title of the debate on the situation of prisons in iraq be changed to 'the assyrian community in iraq and the situation of prisons in iraq'.
if i remember correctly, this was the wording agreed by the conference of presidents. it is not on the agenda and we must see whether we maintain it or modify it, as mr poettering has asked.
mr poettering's proposal is specifically 'the assyrian community in iraq and the situation of prisons in iraq', the two things. (parliament adopted the proposal) 'the order of business is as follows:
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. there are many signatures and, once again, i must tell you in advance that unless you all adhere very strictly to the one-minute speaking time, it will not be possible to give the floor to all those who have asked to speak, much less if, as always happens, there are other requests for the floor that are added during the sitting.
mr libicki, as you know, i wrote to you about the lloyd’s petitioners on 17 january 2006. as i reminded you in that letter, parliament’s most recent resolution on the subject – adopted in june 2005 – confirms its impression that there are substantive and reasonable grounds to believe that the first non-life insurance directive and its later, modified versions were not properly transposed and applied in the united kingdom.
mr leichtfried, i shall be glad to try to communicate your complaint to the commission so that in future the replies will not be reduced-size photocopies of texts which are generally known.
mr mavrommatis, you are quite right in your complaint. the only reason i can think of for the delay in replying to you, for the delay in telling you at the end that the council had not dealt with the matter, is that you were waiting for the council to deal with it, but even under this assumption the delay does not seem reasonable. i shall address the council and the commission, and point out to them the need to take seriously the replies to members in due time, as is the case, and in form, that is to say, not only replies within a reasonable time, but with contents that can be considered as genuine replies. i am sure that the council and commission will take this request very seriously.
mr van den berg, as i have said before, the president of liberia will be invited and we hope that she will be able to accede to our request soon.
mr piotrowski, just before the start of this plenary session i had a meeting with mr bonde and mr farage; we have discussed this matter and i am waiting for their written views on the situation and the measures to be taken. i hope that you will be able to make a statement on this at the start of the plenary session tomorrow.
mr czarnecki, it has been a year since the death of his holiness pope john paul ii. at the time, i was on an official visit to lithuania and i could see the fervour with which eastern europeans felt the death of a personality who had so much influence on the process which led to the enlargement of the european union.
it is not part of the conclusions, but as you know, the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly has not finished its work. it will continue to debate, and i hope that the representatives of parliament in this house will take up its position and make it known. the only way that can be included in the conclusions is for one of the members of the parliamentary assembly to raise it in the assembly.
all suggestions should be treated with respect. are you suggesting that the european parliament investigate whether italian politicians are kgb agents? that's your proposal?
i am afraid that it will not give us time to do this research before the next italian elections, but we can always do it afterwards, if parliament deems it appropriate, of course.
it is possible that the case you mention can be taken into account in the implementation of the fund to deal with the consequences of globalisation, which the commission has proposed and which will be included in the next budgets. i hope you can be considered for the application of these resources.
mr ryan, i fully understand your concern and i am sure that the british government will be sensitive to the issue you raise.
we have exhausted the list of registered members, but i thought i saw mrs hennicot-schoepges raise her hand timidly. i didn't want to leave you without a word, mrs hennicot-schoepges.
we're done with the interventions. as you can see, the presidency is making every effort to ensure that all of you can speak and that no one is left with the urge to do so. that delays the debates. i would ask the commission to apologise for making you wait longer than expected.
the next item is the commission statement on the situation in the refugee camps in malta.
member of the commission. mr president, quite recently we had the opportunity to discuss the issues related to the green paper on common energy policy. i believe that the issues we are debating today – security of supply, environmental sustainability and competitiveness – are very closely related, and europe needs a european answer. we also need to look at how to mobilise investments in europe. the trans-european networks are part of that. sometimes it is said that there are not enough funds for that, but i recently had the opportunity to be proud of a project we are supporting: the future electricity interconnector between ireland and wales. this clearly shows how european funds are being used. there are many such projects of which we can be proud; the feasibility studies we financed paved the way for that interconnector and that infrastructure. from that point of view, i very much appreciate the work done by the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and everybody who has helped to develop this particular decision. i really believe that trans-european energy networks will provide for enhanced development of the european union. as regards natural gas, for example, there is an increasing dependency on gas imports; we know that will continue. the trans-european energy network policy aims to secure and diversify additional gas import capacity from sources such as the caspian basin region, northern africa or the middle east. we have often debated in brussels about the need to develop the european electricity market further. again, for the electricity market, the trans-european energy networks will provide for the creation and fostering of real european interconnections and a european grid. we should not only look for money from our taxpayers; we must also attract money for those projects from the european investment bank, the structural funds and private investors, because there is money available for investment. thus far, the real bottleneck is a lack of political will to build those projects or a lack of ability to take appropriate decisions. the decision was already proposed to parliament in december 2003. at that time, it looked at the new challenges created through enlargement as well as at the essential energy connections with third countries. as to the choice of projects, the commission identified the projects of highest priority from among the larger family of projects of common interest. now, thanks to the negotiations between the three institutions, we have a compromise that seems – at least at this stage –acceptable to us all. the projects of highest priority, a very selective list of projects of european interest, have the objective of supporting the rapid implementation of the largest possible cross-border interconnection capacity. to achieve that aim, the projects of european interest need to comply with specific criteria. they must be of cross-border nature or have a significant impact on cross-border transmission capacity, and they must be mature. one important result achieved between the first and second reading is the european coordinator, whose role is considered essential as he or she will encourage cooperation with users and operators and promote the projects amongst private investors and financial institutions. as a member of the european commission group on trans-european networks, i have seen the good work the current european coordinators have done for transport infrastructures, because they really work to promote them, to find and identify the bottlenecks and try to find solutions. i note with satisfaction that the main elements of the commission proposal have been retained in the package deal you are to vote on tomorrow. i can thus fully support the agreement reached. i should like to thank once again all those involved in finding this compromise.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the energy landscape is at a crucial juncture. this is demonstrated by the green paper and the recent reports of the european commission on the state of liberalisation of energy markets. all of them highlight the need to strengthen interconnections between the member states and to deepen the development of transeuropean networks in order to improve all these energy services. the rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, has done an excellent job and i congratulate her on her ability to reconcile the demands of the members of this parliament with the positions of the commission and the council. we support top priority projects that are cross-border in nature and that can increase transport capacity, security of supply and trade in gas and electricity between member states. in short, the system will be more efficient, which will have a positive effect on prices for businesses and consumers. the european energy network is a reality only if unnecessary delays in the implementation of projects, especially those of european interest, are avoided. the governments must do their utmost to eliminate these administrative barriers, and that is why the role of the european coordinator is important, since he can help to speed up projects of european interest which are experiencing delays or significant difficulties in their implementation. i do not want to end my speech without mentioning the recent european summit of 23 and 24 march, at which energy policy was treated as what it is, a priority issue. in particular, i am pleased that the council has taken up the objective of increasing electricity interconnections between member states to a value equivalent to 10% of installed capacity, as agreed at the 2002 barcelona european council. increasing interconnections between member states and increasing gas storage capacity are priority issues for the internal market. i think that this text which we are going to vote on tomorrow is a step in the right direction.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur mr lipietz and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for this report. i am aware that there are a number of points on which i have to thank the rapporteur for giving the credit to the commission and its services. as you note, competition policy must help drive eu competition, competitiveness and growth and, as the rapporteur mentioned, in the end it should all work in favour of the consumers – what he called the ordinary people. i am glad that parliament follows competition policy developments closely and proactively. our valuable debate in february on state aid reform is a very good example. i will continue to involve you fully in policy development, even if the treaty does not give this house a legislative role in this area. this parliament has also been an ardent and consistent supporter of the commission’s work to enforce the competition rules fairly, firmly and effectively, as rightly mentioned by the rapporteur – whom i thank for that. i agree with your comments on many issues: the anti-trust reforms implemented in 2004; the coordination of the european competition network; european competition days; international cooperation; and of course consumer information. on private damage actions for breach of the ec anti-trust rules, i look forward to parliament’s review of our green paper. we are continuing to work on the review of article 82 of the treaty, on areas of importance for the information society and on the sector inquiries, where i take your point about the areas in which our methodology could be improved. turning to a couple of specific points touched on by the rapporteur, we have discussed altmark at length before, and the commission will provide guidance when adopting decisions on individual cases. i have no indication in relation to questioning the behaviour of the national competition authorities as regards national incumbents, but would remind you that, if such a case arose, the commission can intervene and deal with the case itself. finally, i have two comments in response to mr lipietz. first, the commission’s handling of the hoechst/rhône-poulenc merger in 1999 and 2004 has been discussed at length and in detail during the committee meetings when this report was being prepared. the commission has provided detailed responses to all the points raised. i do not think that any new factors have been brought forward. so, as far as i am concerned, that is behind us. secondly, the commission decided that some of the aid granted to ryanair at charleroi was compatible with the common market in the context of transport policy. this concerned aid which permitted development and improved use of secondary airport infrastructure that was underused and represented a cost to society as a whole. however, i should add that the remainder of the aid was found not to be compatible and must be recovered.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the presentation of the annual report on competition policy, which is submitted to parliament for examination, debate and resolution, is an exercise of responsibility on the part of the commission. it provides an opportunity to highlight the most important milestones, consolidate the accumulated acquis and enrich it with the experience gained in the period and with orientations for the future. i think that mr lipietz's report has been very useful in this respect. as rapporteur for the socialist group, i should first of all like to express my satisfaction that, since 1 may 2004, competition policy has been extended to ten new countries as a result of enlargement and the integration of the authorities of the new member states into the competition authority network. after the elections, parliament took a decision on the investiture of the new commission, which included a new head of the competition authority. an active and growing role for parliament brings more legitimacy and transparency to the development of competition policy, as has been demonstrated. the repeated aspiration of parliament to have co-decision powers is well justified. during 2004, the commission completed its modernisation package. it has improved the safeguards of its procedures and promoted initiatives in the field of the information and communication society. it has pursued collusive agreements and abuses of dominant positions and has also controlled mergers and state aid. we wanted to highlight the importance of these actions and express our support. however, we have also identified shortcomings and weaknesses in the report, such as the lack of assessment of the effects of major decisions on mergers and public aid, the treatment of services of general interest, the problem of collective bargaining in sensitive sectors such as agriculture, the promotion of international cooperation, including with emerging and developing countries, or the role of consumers in a genuine culture of competition. the final resolution will be more complete if all these aspects are echoed, so that they get the attention they deserve. competition policy is essential to contribute to the success of the lisbon strategy and to achieve the objectives of growth and jobs. the resolution we adopt will be more valuable if it reflects this reality, its strategic role and the potential of the european competition network and will be more powerful if it sets out two clear guidelines: that the commission focuses on issues relevant to our citizens, for the improvement of their living conditions, and that it acts proactively, that is, anticipating and promoting change and not just reacting to it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to mention the initiative of mr michael cashman on the regulation of public access to documents, a report which runs parallel to this one but goes in the same direction. the council has a credibility problem at the moment. on the one hand, the political leaders of the member states support article 1.2 of the treaty on european union, and have even signed the treaty establishing a constitution for europe, which states that the council's decisions must be taken in the most transparent, open and close to the citizen. but the reality is very different. the council itself refuses to open its legislative meetings to the public and the media. the european ombudsman is right to say that this is a case of maladministration, concluding that the council has not provided any valid reason for not opening the door to its deliberations. to increase the interest and engagement of ordinary citizens in the european union, and in the face of the present constitutional crisis, europe needs bold and imaginative measures to bring european affairs closer to everyone. first of all, it must open its doors to public debate; however, the council does not want to do that. if millions of europeans could watch their ministers on television openly discussing european issues such as the energy crisis, the services directive, the retention of personal data or stem cell research, we could arouse much more interest in european issues and we could awaken from the slumber millions of europeans who show very little interest in european current affairs. public opinion is locked into narrowly national debates. this report adopted by the committee on petitions fully supports the recommendation of the european ombudsman, who considered that the principle of transparency should apply not only to the deliberations of the council but to all cases in which the european parliament is involved, including consultations and issues relating to individual rights and freedoms and those falling within the third pillar. last october, the european ombudsman published a report calling on the council to reconsider its refusal to meet in public when it is taking legislative decisions. to this end, the ombudsman asked the council to amend its rules of procedure in order to guarantee the media and the public access to its debates. however, despite the recommendation of the british presidency, the council has taken no action to change its rules of procedure in order to promote transparency. the leaders of the member states can therefore continue to say in brussels the opposite of what they say to their voters at home. the implications of this openness which we want could be profound for the council and would change the nature of the council. ministers would have to speak out under the scrutiny of the press and in front of millions of people. this would be the best way of making european democracy visible and of waking us up from the current lethargy and boredom. the council could even start with a pilot programme, explaining how decisions are taken and how the procedure is carried out in front of millions of people, in front of the television cameras. i would like to ask the presidency of the council and the commission the following question: are they prepared to propose concrete initiatives to enable open and transparent discussions and decision-making in the council? if not now, when? the citizens and the european parliament are asking the council for light and stenographers. the council has the floor. please open the doors. europeans want to be involved.
mr president, i warmly congratulate mr hammerstein and the commissioner on their efforts to democratize council meetings once and for all, to open the doors to those meetings where legislation is being passed without the citizens having all the necessary information. i must say that in my country, spain, where the european constitution was voted on, this was one of the arguments most widely accepted by the citizens: the possibility of democratizing the council meetings and of having access to all this information. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposals in this respect, and particularly the publication of all this information, including all that relates to successive presidencies, on the internet and in all the official languages of the community, avoiding any restrictions on communication. it would be of little use to publish all the information, to open those doors, but only in two or three languages, as some institutions seem to be suggesting at the moment. transparency also requires that what is communicated be understood, understood by all citizens. we therefore encourage all the institutions which are in favour of democratic transparency in the council to spare no effort to ensure that transparency in all the languages.
mr president, i would like to thank all the colleagues on the committee on petitions - a very important committee in this parliament - for their help, in particular its chairman, mr libicki, and its vice-chairman, mr cashman. i think that, in short, this debate has shown that there is a cry from this house for transparency. yet this cry meets deaf ears, an autistic response, and even no response at all. there's a lot of talk, but no action. i wonder, reflecting on mr voggenhuber's proposal, whether we have to go to the extreme of a parliamentary strike to achieve a minimum of transparency in the european council. or are we going to continue these debates every year, every two years, with a unanimous position of parliament, without any response from the european council, without a strong initiative from the commission, without people on the street seeing it? because it is very good, commissioner wallström, that the opening of the councils was approved in october, but the people on the street have seen nothing, there are no ministers debating on television, there is no plastic debate. we must give visibility to the european political debate, we must give political tension to the debate in the council, not just in parliament. that is what we are asking for and i think we must adopt concrete measures and proposals and not just good words.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr papastamkos on his report and thanking him for his willingness and cooperation in maintaining the consistency and the general line which this house has followed since the start of the doha round. our group will be providing some nuance and support for your work tomorrow. in hong kong - we discussed this here in january - the results were modest, but a road map was drawn up, with fixed deadlines, the first of which is 30 april next. let me focus, ladies and gentlemen, on the road to geneva. it is encouraging that the negotiations have been rebalanced and that there is no longer exclusively talk of agriculture. progress is being made in nama, services and trade facilitation, as well as in development issues. we continue to advocate that this round be closed by the end of the year with an ambitious and balanced agreement in all areas of the negotiation. we fully support the commission's strategy and continue to defend the principle of the single undertaking. success depends essentially on the political will and flexibility of the major players. it's time to move the pieces. we have the negotiating skills of our competent commissioners to encourage the united states to put forward new proposals for internal aid to its farmers and for the emerging countries, especially brazil and india, to make their positions more flexible and to put forward proposals which will lead to a real opening up of their industrial markets. in this area, given that the swiss formula has been chosen, an appropriate number of coefficients should be defined in nama and the principle of partial reciprocity applied, so that the developing countries can protect their fragile industrial sectors and european industry can strengthen its competitive position in access to industrial markets. in the field of services, it is necessary to follow the path taken in the recent multilateral negotiations and to ensure that the requests submitted on 28 february are matched by substantial revised offers on 31 july, always bearing in mind that a balance must be maintained between the liberalisation of markets and the full right of the member states to regulate activity in this sector, especially in the field of essential public services. commissioner, in hong kong we parliamentarians had a magnificent view over the bay but we had to use binoculars to follow the progress of the work of the conference. there's a lovely lake in geneva. i hope it doesn't happen again. we know that we can count on the support and the logistics of the commission to ensure that the european parliament delegation is given the appropriate place and is fully associated and informed throughout the negotiation process.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i shall make just three short comments. firstly, i would like to thank you for this debate, which i found very constructive and balanced and indeed very interesting. thank you for not shooting the messenger! i will indeed make sure that everything that has been said tonight is immediately forwarded to mr mandelson, who will also appreciate, i believe, that i did not go into depth on all the details of this doha round. i would also like to comment on the overall process. as you will understand, this is being regularly reported and discussed in the commission. as several members asked, what happens if doha fails and what should we then say about the overall process? it is true that this process is not easy, but it is not blocked either, and we are still committed to concluding the round by the end of the year and to the principle of the single undertaking. as has been mentioned, we have proposed real cuts in agricultural tariffs, but they must be matched by real cuts in industrial tariffs and services liberalisation. we have a few weeks left before the end of april and we will continue to discuss with our partners, step by step, so as to agree on the arrangements within the deadline that we set ourselves in hong kong. i would also like to say a few words about meps’ participation in the next wto meeting, because i think this is very important to all of you. as far as i understand it, the april meeting of the wto is likely to be a general council meeting in charge of negotiating procedures; it is not a ministerial as such, so it is not the same set-up and therefore the commission does not foresee a fully-fledged official eu delegation such as that which we usually send to ministerial meetings like hong kong. if the inta committee here in parliament sends meps to geneva during that meeting, the commissioner will be ready to meet them and provide a debriefing as usual. the commission delegation in geneva will also provide the support we usually offer to meps on the ground when they are on official business abroad. that is what we can say for today about meps’ participation. again i thank you for the discussion and i will make sure that your views are immediately forwarded to mr mandelson and to the commission as a whole.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, commissioner mandelson would have to be here to give you the latest information. if the decision or format is changed, then we will also have to ensure that the provision – when it comes to the participation of meps – is changed thereafter in accordance with that. we welcome the participation of members of the european parliament, which has always been very helpful and would, again, provide openness and good support.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i should like to inform you that i have received a letter from mr bonde and mr farage, co-chairs of the independence and democracy group, asking me to withdraw the announcement made by the presidency on 15 march last on the restructuring of that political group. therefore, at the request of the group's co-chairs, the presidency's declaration is revoked, null and void and the composition of the independence and democracy group remains the same as before 15 march 2006. on the basis of this composition, which remains the same as before the presidency's declaration, the group's management will convene the meetings it deems appropriate to continue working within the group.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, my group opposes the council's request for the urgency procedure to be applied until parliament has been provided with the necessary and essential information to ensure that this fisheries agreement is the appropriate legal framework for the normal development of the fishing activities of the community fleet.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i rise, pursuant to rule 134 (3), as rapporteur for this report, to point out to the house that the rapporteur is against urgency. it is against because, in the case of such a sensitive matter, which has not been fully concluded, an agreement which is still subject to substantial nuances by both parties, the committee responsible, the committee on fisheries, cannot be robbed of its report, its debate and its vote. we do not want any surprises tomorrow in the implementation of this agreement, as has happened in the past. we want to give the fisheries sector guarantees of legal certainty, of the full operation of the agreement and of the profitability of this agreement. the committee on development has already taken its decision and we will take its report into account. the fisheries committee has not yet done so. with the compromise i proposed yesterday to the chairman of the committee on fisheries, which was approved, i do not intend to delay the report but to speed it up so that it can be available in this house in may and we can reach a conclusion in perfect conditions, since the first deadline for the first financial compensation is 30 june. we shall be there on time and i would point out, in the light of what mr kindermann has said, that many of the species covered by the agreement are starting a biological standstill this month and next month, so they will not be affected. for these reasons, we ask that our committee work in this remaining time and that we can bring to the house a report from the committee responsible. that is why we reject urgency today.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by magda kosáné kovács, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states (com (2006) 0032 - c6-0047/2006 - 2006/0010 (cns)) (a6-0086/2006) and - the report by josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the state of the european economy: preparatory report on the broad guidelines for economic policies for 2006 (a6-0077/2006).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the integrated economic guidelines are at the heart of the new growth and jobs policy with which we are seeking to advance the lisbon agenda. they are integrated because they reflect the recognition that we cannot achieve more growth and more jobs for europe unless we closely link macroeconomic, microeconomic and employment policy objectives. the economic guidelines provide the framework within which the member states and the community institutions draw up their plans for implementing the strategy for growth and employment. they were first put forward by the commission last year and i am grateful that the european parliament is working hard on these guidelines because they are indeed a compass for what we intend to do and what should be the basis of our action beyond the year. the strategy for growth and employment which we have been trying to implement for about a year is a completely new process. it is not yet easy to assess the elements of this new process definitively, but one thing can be said - with caution - already today: the member states have largely followed the priorities set out in the integrated economic guidelines in their national reform programmes, and the commission has done the same in its proposal for a community action programme. it is important to note that the growth and employment strategy is based on a three-year cycle. this means that there is no intention of changing the guidelines every year. adjustments to changed realities and consequences of the experiences we have had are of course possible and necessary. however, we do not see any reason to change the present guidelines for 2006. they are and remain a solid basis for the discussions which the commission is now having with the member states, and these discussions are about actually implementing the national reform programmes. as regards the individual pillars of this strategy, my colleagues almunia and špidla will say a few words on the macroeconomic and employment aspects. i would like to turn briefly to the microeconomic part and point out that there is still important progress in some areas. this is particularly true of the key issue for europe's economic future, namely the transition to a knowledge society, the transition to an economy based on innovation, research and development. that is why we have insisted so strongly on the need to impose quantitative targets on research and development expenditure. you know that the results of the national reform programmes in this area have been somewhat disappointing. it would have brought us to an average of 2.2 percent in 2010; the commission has already proposed a reduction of the ceiling on the quantities of cereals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if these commitments are maintained, we would reach 2.6% in 2010. that's better, but i'm telling you, clearly, not good enough. the commission will therefore continue its pressure at this point. the european council of last week, which will be discussed here tomorrow, also discussed and decided on important parts of the implementation of the strategy. i would like to draw your attention in particular to the council decisions on the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises, the improvement of legislation and energy policy. there is a question that has occasionally been discussed in the context of the guidelines, which is whether or not the commission should issue country-specific recommendations in its future evaluation of the national reform plans. we did not do this in the first round for a very obvious reason, because we did not know what the national reform programmes would look like. i would like to make it clear, however, that the possibility of including country-specific recommendations in future progress reports is of course part of the commission's toolbox and that we will use this tool if necessary. but the most important thing for me at the moment is that we all work together to make it visible to the wider european public that we have a common strategy for growth and jobs, that we have common priorities and that we work together to achieve those priorities. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, i agree with the assessment just made by vice-president verheugen on the way we are developing the revised lisbon strategy, which we launched last year. in reading mr garcía-margallo's report on the european economy and the broad guidelines of economic policy, i see a substantial coincidence, as we also see from the commission, with the same objectives and the same process towards achieving them, at the last european council. i believe that this basic agreement between the three european institutions is a crucial element for the credibility of the process, for the appropriation of the objectives of this strategy by all economic and social actors, and not just by the european and national institutions, and one of the conditions - in my view essential - for achieving greater growth and greater employment in the european union. i would like to make three points on macroeconomic issues. firstly, it is clear that, as we have said on numerous occasions, and i think we agree with the view of parliament, it was important to achieve a better synchronisation between the objectives of the lisbon strategy, to achieve more growth and more employment, and the implementation of the stability and growth pact. in the last year this has been achieved. there is more harmony and better interrelationship and, in practice, i think the results are being very positive. the european economy is moving more quickly than a year ago towards fiscal consolidation, as one of the conditions for supporting stronger growth and growth capable of generating employment. the confidence of economic operators is improving, the results of activity allow us to anticipate that 2006 will deliver better results than 2005 and the prospects for the future are also positive. secondly, i fully agree with one of the statements in mr garcía-margallo's report on the importance of paying more attention to the sustainability of public finances and, in particular, to how to deal with the consequences of population ageing. a few weeks ago the commission and the economic policy committee, which includes all the member states, published a report on the economic and budgetary consequences of an ageing population. these are important consequences, but the report also notes that, by acting in time and implementing reforms, such as those included in many of the national programmes of the lisbon strategy and those being promoted by the different members of the european commission through their initiatives, in particular the demographic initiatives of commissioner špidla, the results are being seen, and there are already european countries that are in a better position today than five years ago to deal with the consequences of population ageing. in october the commission will publish a report on this matter, which i hope will also be discussed and followed up in parliament. and one last point. i am pleased that in mr garcía-margallo's report, in addition to a general analysis of the european economy and the role of the lisbon strategy and the various instruments contained in the broad economic policy guidelines for the economy of the twenty-five, special reference is made to the challenges and needs of the euro area, where the twelve countries sharing a single currency, the euro, need mechanisms of coordination and special attention to obtain the maximum results of economic and monetary union. we are grateful to mr garcía-margallo for having mentioned this in his report.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs kósán kovács, for the excellent report which she has presented to the committee on employment and social affairs. this report is constructive for two reasons: it adds a substantive text and should allow for its earlier adoption by the council compared with previous years. the spring european council stated that the union will be able to create 2 million jobs a year. however, job creation and reducing unemployment require that the economic upswing currently under way be used to pursue the necessary reforms. the meeting thus concluded that the integrated guidelines remain valid and at the same time identified priorities to be given greater emphasis. i am glad that the parliamentary committee has taken a similar approach and has not made excessive changes to the main employment principles. we are open to changes in the recitals, but at the same time we insist on the original text of the text itself. the lisbon strategy was redefined last year in an integrated set of employment guidelines and broad economic policy guidelines. the strategy is three-year in nature, in order to provide a clear and stable policy framework for the bodies responsible for its implementation. the commission's analysis of the first national reform programmes has shown that there are some shortcomings in the implementation by the member states, but these do not call into question the validity of the main principles. it would therefore be inappropriate to give the impression that we want to change the direction or content of policies now. however, the text proposed by the commission deliberately left room for the recitals to be supplemented by specific political priorities. i therefore strongly support parliament's wish to include in the explanatory memorandum certain economic and social aspects which require special attention, particularly if they are in line with the conclusions of the last spring european council. the need to increase employment, particularly among young people, women, the elderly and disabled, legal immigrants and minorities, was emphasised at this meeting. as regards young people, the targets were confirmed to reduce the number of those who do not complete school by 10% and to offer every young person employment, traineeship or further education within six months of leaving school in 2007, as set out in the current guidelines, and within four months in 2010. for older workers, the need to introduce integrated strategies based on quality of employment and training was emphasised. on equal opportunities for women and men, the spring european council adopted the european pact for the equality of women and men and the european council also joined the commission's proposal to launch a wide-ranging debate leading to the adoption of common principles on flexibility and security (flexsecurity) at the end of 2007. the aim of this discussion with the member states and the social partners is to reduce the segmentation of the labour market and to strike a balance between flexibility and certainty. at the same time, let me express my satisfaction that the spring summit welcomed the commission's proposal to establish a european globalisation adjustment fund. this shows the will to use community funds more effectively to support the european employment strategy, as requested by the european parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the guidelines for the economic policies of the community. in order to alleviate the headache this year, i shall confine myself to three questions: why has parliament decided to make a report when the commission has chosen to ratify previous reports? what can we do to make our reports heard? and thirdly, what do we want the commission to hear? first of all, why a report? because there are a lot of recommendations, made in previous reports, that the commission has not taken into account. secondly, because since we discussed the previous report, new factors have emerged: the relative failure of the european constitution, new financial prospects, the first interest rate hikes, three candidates aspiring to join the euro area, and the doha round, which continues the hong kong trade talks. secondly, because there are certain factors which were taken into account in other reports but which have become more important over time. commissioner almunia has referred to the ageing of the population and we should also talk about the consequences of immigration, the consequences of chinese imports once quantitative restrictions are over, the global imbalances, mainly in the united states, and finally the energy shock. what must we do to be heard? this report was drafted in the spirit of consensus, which has forced many of us to make many concessions to our own particular thoughts, concessions for which i am especially grateful to all the representatives of the other groups in this parliament. and if we want to be heard, the first thing i have to point out here is that we have not been heard before. it begins this report with a kind of memorial of grievances, a compilation of recommendations that we have made and that have not been followed up by the commission. we are calling for the transposition of directives, which has not been done, the reduction of deficits - commissioner almunia has mentioned that 12 of the 25 member states are currently in a situation of excessive deficit - a communication on globalisation to make the people aware of the opportunities and challenges of the same communication, which, if it had been done, would have saved us a lot of headaches, and we are also calling for the implementation of the charters for small and mediumsized enterprises, which has not been done. secondly, this report deals with what we might call institutional questions, whether constitutional or not. the questions that remained unanswered in the convention are addressed in this period of active reflection - which is neither reflection nor active: what are the objectives and competences of the union? what is the responsibility of the european central bank, while respecting its independence? what can be done to strengthen the stability and growth pact? what are the legal bases for tax reform in the union and in the member states? an explicit recommendation, which i would ask the commission to take note of: this parliament will not adopt any lamfalussy directive if the problem of call backs or of advocacy, and ultimately international representation of the euro area, is not resolved before 2008. the vice-president of the commission has referred to the coordination of the gopes and the employment guidelines in a single document: that is true, but they are subject to different procedures, information and consultation, which makes it difficult to understand them. in addition, other documents must be included to avoid fragmentation. in the matter of institutional taxation, we ask the commission to echo what the high court of justice has already said: single residence as an extension of citizenship, the principle of non-discrimination and the double taxation convention. and as regards coordination, i welcome the kind words of commissioner almunia: it is true that we have to coordinate more, we have to make an accurate diagnosis, an accurate treatment, an analysis of what has happened and define the role of the eurogroup. in the field of macroeconomic policy, we do not go into the subject of interest rates, we do not express our views. we do say that everything possible must be done to keep prices down and interest rates down. we are referring to the public debt, in the terms used by the commissioner: less interest, less depreciation, which means more ageing costs, more lisbon. as regards the business climate, we ask for serious reflection. the united states is ahead of us. the european union has 144 of the world's top firms, compared with 206 in the united states. small and mediumsized enterprises double their number of employees in the first two years, which is not the case in europe. we call for positive discrimination to be applied in favour of small and mediumsized enterprises, with particular reference to venture capital financing. in the field of taxation, we are calling for the home state taxation of companies to be used to apply the principle of origin in value added, if it is to be simplified. i say nothing in the matter of human capital. my colleague has said it very well. the investment subject: transeuropean networks. it would take 20 years to finish them. energy, r & d & i, more market, more competition, more competitiveness. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by highlighting the good work and excellent cooperation with the rapporteur, mrs magda kosáné kovács, whom i congratulate on her efforts and on the report she has presented. as is well known, the employment guidelines, which i had the honour of presenting on that occasion, were adopted just a year ago. these guidelines set out the broad lines for employment and the priorities for the next three years and were intended to make an effective contribution to employment growth, to the productivity of the economy and, of course, to strengthening social cohesion and inclusion. these guidelines, which were discussed together with the economic policy guidelines, which my colleague josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil presented brilliantly this year, are collected and translated into concrete objectives in the national reform plans, adopted by the member states just six months ago. we have simply updated the guidelines, both because of the common sense that they were adopted just a year ago and are for three years, and because of the guidelines themselves. what was the update? three large blocks. in the first block, we have listed the priority issues that have been highlighted at the major european summits held this year: firstly, investment in research, development and innovation and the spread of information technologies, one of the aspects that takes us further away from the lisbon objectives; secondly, real and effective equality of opportunity, which our group has always advocated, and which involves the incorporation, permanence and promotion of women in employment and, of course, equal pay; and thirdly, the important commitment to stable employment, and i say this because much of the employment being created is mostly precarious employment. for example, in my country 52% of the total employment created in the last two years is temporary employment, and that is unacceptable. in the second block, we reiterated fundamental questions which were not adequately addressed by the commission. in the fight against workplace accidents, we were committed to a major agreement at european level, which we believe is essential, given that, for example, in spain, 990 people lost their lives in 2005, and also to facilitate the employment of victims of domestic violence. finally, as we are now updating, we want this parliament to be able to monitor the employment guidelines and their compliance by the member states. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to start by saying that i am more optimistic than some of my predecessors, because i believe that the reports we have today and this debate will be useful and will provide a new opportunity to promote the european employment strategy and the lisbon process. in the end, this is our only hope: the only hope that europe will work in coordination along the lines set out last year, enriching the economic and social vision with new guidelines within that framework of integration. commissioner verheugen said that we need visibility for this strategy. it is indeed one of our shortcomings, as is our credibility deficit, as commissioner almunia said. we need those jobs, as commissioner spidla said. i would therefore ask you to read these two reports from parliament in the very short time i have. these are horizontal reports, with which the vast majority of members identify themselves, and which, i believe, reflect a great effort of unity and a great effort of opportunity for the future. read what these reports say and take that leadership that we need in europe today. the commission's people must be more active in pressing governments to implement this european employment strategy. and you be consistent, look at our amendments. for example, look at amendment no 2. we need to apply the european legislation we already have, which makes work between member states much more coherent. read also our amendment no 5. in this european year of mobility, take steps to remove the barriers to the mobility of european workers.
mr president, when spain and portugal joined the european union - the then european community - there was an irrational fear of what would happen to spanish and portuguese workers entering the market. that proved to be absurd and yet that same fear re-emerged with the accession of the new member states and unfortunately, despite some of us at the time in the spanish parliament opposing it, even the spanish government itself at the time - the moment of accession - joined in with those transitional periods, partly because of pressure from other member states. today it has been confirmed that this is nonsense, that this fear is absolutely irrational and that one of the essential freedoms in the european union cannot be allowed to be cornered for a while, just for reasons of populism or for fear of the reaction that certain societies may have. there can be no first-class and second-class states within the european union and therefore these transitional periods must be ended and the frontiers of the european labour market must be opened up completely and it must be effectively turned into a genuine single labour market. i therefore fully support the öry report, which draws attention to this issue and to the situation of the citizens of these states, who are in some cases even worse off than third-country nationals legally resident in the member states of the european union. i congratulate the spanish government on its decision to finally join the abolition of this transitional period and i hope that other states - and hence the pressure that must be exerted by this house - will join this initiative as soon as possible, so that all citizens of the european union are on an equal footing. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission's communication on the amended proposal for a directive on services in the internal market and the communication on directive 97/71/ec on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services are on the agenda. this is, as everyone is aware, the amended proposal for the so-called 'bolkestein directive' after its first reading in parliament.
mr goebbels, i would hesitate to call your intervention a point of order, although it certainly affects the order of the debates. it is a question of order, but i do not think that the council needs any incentives from the members of parliament to intervene if it wishes to do so. you know that you can do that, and if you have not asked to speak, it is because you do not consider it necessary. you know what they say: the one who is silent, nods. the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the joint debate on 'better legislation', which will include four reports: the report by monica frassoni, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the twenty-first and twenty-second annual reports of the commission on monitoring the application of community law [2005/2150 (ini) ] (a6-0089/2006), the report by bert doorn, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on 'better legislation 2004: implementation of the principle of subsidiarity - 12th annual report [2005/2055 (ini) ]' (a6-0082/2006), the report by arlene mccarthy, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the application, consequences and impact of the legislation in force on the internal market [2004/2224 (ini) ] (a6-0083/2006) ' and the report by giuseppe gargi, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on 'a simplification strategy for the regulatory framework 2006-2006' (a6-0080/2006 (ini)).
mr. president, there was a time when laws were made by the gods; the gods made perfect laws. then the gods got tired and men started making laws, and laws are imperfect. so, at the present moment, whether a law is good or bad is not decided by anyone but ourselves, and the only criterion for knowing whether a law is good or bad is democracy, the criterion of the majority, because, as rousseau said, "it is reasonable that the majority should decide, and not the minority". this principle is established in modern democracies, where democracy is representative and parliaments legislate; they may be wrong, but the only criterion of legitimacy is the parliamentary majority. based on this, i think the biggest danger at the moment for democracy is technocracy associated with economic interests - what is called self-regulation and co-regulation - which is a way of putting the general interests in the hands of the particular interests of a few, and it is something to be remembered. of course, this parliamentarian, who has been elected after many legislatures, would not be willing to renounce his legislative responsibilities in favour of subcontracting and technocratic interests.
member of the commission. obviously, when this legislation was enacted, by way of exception to the rule that had been established, under which it was no longer possible to effect transfers of vessels to third countries, it was made subject to certain significant restrictions, one of which related, for example, to the length of the vessels. i remember the discussion here in parliament that we should not allow a situation where vessels would be transferred to third countries stricken by the tsunami without imposing any conditions because that could, in actual fact, increase the fishing effort and therefore intensify the problems that existed in certain fisheries in those third-country waters, but that the vessels should be suitable and appropriate to the fisheries that were traditionally carried out in those countries. therefore, we had restrictions with regard to the size of vessels, the age of vessels, the fact that vessels should not use towed gear and other conditions relating to ecological resource management and seaworthiness. having said that, i must underline the fact that the responses we have received from the member states on why it was not possible to identify vessels for transfer to sri lanka were either that there were no appropriate vessels available among those to be decommissioned in certain member states, or that decommissioning was not foreseen in certain other member states, or that the incentives provided for the transfer of vessels were not sufficiently attractive. i must also underline the fact that this was a commission initiative aimed at trying to help the countries affected by the tsunami, with regard to the fisheries sector specifically, if there was scope to do so. there was an element of additionality which was therefore the main thrust of the assistance, albeit under the general umbrella of development cooperation rather than under the fisheries portfolio. it was an ‘optional extra’ that was not taken up. i must underline that the end result was that certain individual member states gave assistance to the tsunami-affected countries by providing funds for the acquisition of vessels which have been purchased without any control measures. the end result today is that there is a significantly larger fleet in the tsunami-affected areas, which creates much more pressure on the fishing effort than before and creates further problems. rather than moving in the direction of sustainable fisheries, according to the information we have, there are significantly more problems than there were before.
member of the commission. yes, obviously it is important to try to strike the right balance between the needs of the countries that would be affected by such disasters and long-term assistance, which should aim not to create further pressures or difficulties for those countries by trying to help rebuild the economy in a sustainable way. we are trying to do this specifically with regard to fisheries; however, unless there is closer coordination between commission initiatives and the individual initiatives of member states, the chances are that the possibility of success will be limited.
member of the commission. mrs miguélez ramos’ question concerning the ban on the use of deepwater fixed gillnets to the north and west of britain and ireland follows a number of written questions on the same subject from her and from mrs fraga estévez and mr varela suanzes-carpegna. the ban, which took effect on 1 february 2006, was introduced in the tac and quota regulation that was adopted at the council in december 2005. it was proposed in response to the report of the deepnet investigation, which highlighted the potential damage that those fisheries may be causing to deepwater sharks and other species. the deepnet report was carried out by reputable scientific organisations in ireland, the united kingdom and norway, and so was taken seriously by the commission. in parallel to the prohibition in community waters, at its annual meeting in november 2005, the north-east atlantic fisheries commission adopted an identical prohibition of deep-sea gillnets in its regulatory area from 1 february 2006. first, i should like to reassure you that this ban is intended as a temporary measure in response to serious concerns about the practices of some of the participants in such fisheries and in particular about the impact of those practices on vulnerable species such as deep-sea sharks. those species are in such a poor state and take so long to recover their numbers once depleted that the commission has to react very quickly without waiting for definitive scientific advice from the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf). the prohibition was originally envisaged as an emergency measure in september but deferred until the december council to give time for consultations. unfortunately, no concrete suggestions for alternative measures were presented in time for inclusion in the proposal discussed at the council in december. i am aware that most of the fishermen using such gear behave responsibly and that it is a minority who are causing concern. for that reason, i would like to introduce measures to regulate the activity of deep-sea gillnets at the earliest opportunity. the commission has already had some feedback on possible approaches, especially from the north-western waters regional advisory council, which suggests an earlier reopening of the hague fishery and a limited number of vessels participating in the monkfish and deep-sea fisheries with observer coverage. the commission services will meet with the north-western waters regional advisory council and scientists on friday, 7 april 2006, where we will discuss those possibilities. depending on the outcome of that meeting, a proposal to allow a limited fishery under an observer programme could be made in may 2006. the data collected by such a programme could then be made available to the stecf, which will address the issue in late june or early july. the geographical limits of the prohibition were determined by the coverage of the deepnet study. i am aware that there may be similar problems in other areas, but we currently have no information that would justify enlarging the area of the prohibition. that is another reason for bringing in effective legislation applicable in all areas as soon as practicable. unfortunately, the prohibition is bound to create economic difficulties for the fleets concerned. no transitional measures to mitigate the effects of the ban have been planned, but i would encourage member states to make full use of the possibilities that are already available for the temporary cessation of activities under the financial instrument for fisheries guidance to help those most severely affected.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what i really wanted to ask you is whether there is any possibility of amending this decision immediately, whether there is any possibility of amending the tac and quota regulation so that at least the flying boats - which are engaged in cod fishing in a way that you yourself have acknowledged, in letters i have seen, is not aggressive - can return to those waters; and what time limits does the commission envisage for the definitive regulation of fixed gillnets, so as not to leave the sector in uncertainty. because, commissioner, this decision has had and continues to have very negative effects, especially socioeconomic ones.
member of the commission. as i said in my previous response, the negotiations were conducted by the commission with the representatives of the government of the kingdom of morocco. the authorisation that we had from the council was to negotiate with morocco. the negotiations concluded with an agreement which entails that any fisheries carried out in waters within the jurisdiction of the kingdom of morocco should benefit the communities directly adjacent to where the fisheries are carried out. it is therefore the responsibility of the kingdom of morocco to see to it that any benefits deriving from fisheries carried out in waters adjacent to the polisario front area would go to the communities living there.
commissioner, this morning parliament agreed to reject the council's request for the application of the urgency procedure to the agreement with morocco. what consequences will the decision of the european parliament this morning have for the entry into force of the agreement?
member of the commission. yesterday, i took part in a meeting of the fisheries committee of the european parliament, and the understanding is that the rapporteur will present his report to the fisheries committee in early may, with the possibility of submitting amendments, which would then be put to the vote in the fisheries committee in mid-may, and then come to the plenary for a decision during the strasbourg part-session in may. i will be discussing with the austrian presidency the possibility of having the council decide on this agreement in the meeting of the council of ministers later on in may, so that if it works in that way, the agreement can come into effect from the beginning of june. that would mean only month’s delay as regards the terms agreed between the commission and the kingdom of morocco.
member of the commission. on the basis of the european council agreement dating from 16 and 17 december 2005, the situation of the outermost regions for the period 2007-2013 is as follows. for the parts of europe concerned, there will be a higher co-financing rate under the structural funds and the cohesion fund. it will be 85%, both for regions under the convergence objective and for those outermost regions which are part of the regional competitiveness and employment objective. there will also be a specific additional financial allocation to help finance operating aid to offset the additional costs which are incurred in these regions due to their geographical location. the co-financing rate under this additional allocation will be at the level of 50%; this additional allocation amounts to eur 35 per year per capita in each of the seven outermost regions. we then have specific situations as regards individual outermost regions. there is madeira, which will be keeping the status of a phasing-in region, but at the same time will benefit from more generous financial transitional arrangements, similar to those of the statistical phasing-out regions. there are also the canary islands, which will benefit from an additional envelope of eur 100 million over the period between 2007 and 2013. with regard to territorial cooperation – the objective set for the policy – all the outermost regions will be eligible for the transnational strand of the european territorial cooperation objective, and the french outermost regions, like the canary islands, will be eligible for the cross-border strand. in addition, madeira, the azores and the canary islands will benefit from special provisions applicable to portugal and spain. as you know in the case of portugal, madeira and the azores will also be eligible for the cohesion fund, as also for the temporary application of the n+3 rule for the period 2007-2010. in the case of spain and the canary islands, that means they will also be eligible for the cohesion fund and for an additional allocation that was awarded to spain in the form of a technological fund. the participation of the canary islands would be by decision of the government. as you may know, the outermost regions can also benefit from specific measures, which aim at supporting traditional sectors of these regions. there will be specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions of the union, as well as specific treatment under the rural development policy, in particular concerning the intervention rates of the new european agricultural fund for rural development. on top of that, of course, there are the ordinary instruments that exist under our policies, and all the regions will have access to all the community programmes envisaged under all the titles of the european budget. those in brief are the specific measures available under the new financial perspective for the outermost regions.
author. - mr commissioner, the commission has so far done a great deal of work in helping the outermost regions, but it is clear that the overall effort of the european union is being reduced in the new financial perspectives. i would simply like to ask you a very specific question: in the new context of the crisis in the areas close to the european union, especially in north africa, is it possible for the european union, through the outermost regions and the new fund for neighbourhood policies, to help solve the problem of the mass influx of immigrants into the european union, which affects the whole union? in other words, what cooperation instruments could be available to avoid this tremendous crisis which is arising in the areas adjacent to these outermost regions of the european union?
mr president, as a european and catalan i fully support the need to reinforce historical memory in order to avoid future disasters while we learn from our past. in mr takkula's report there is a proposal to finance historical sites related to the main totalitarian regimes that europe endured during the 20th century – nazism and stalinism. i agree with him, but we would also like to extend this proposal to other aspects directly related to this kind of authoritarianism. in our case, in the catalan country, we suffered franco's dictatorship which was closely related in origin to nazism and italian fascism. the only president of a democratic nation killed as a consequence of world war ii was lluís companys, president of the catalan autonomous government. the first civilian population bombed indiscriminately by hostile aircraft was guernica, the emblematic town in the basque country. if we neglect franco's regime and other dictatorships in southern europe and the need to rescue the historical memory of this dark period of our history, we avoid discussing the consequences of dictatorships, some of them very disturbing for the european union, even today.
mr president, tomorrow we are voting on this report on the 'citizens with europe' programme, which, as has been said, aims to promote active european citizenship and which is framed in this context of the union's concern about the distancing of citizens from the european institutions and their difficulties in identifying themselves with the integration process. i want to express my full support for this programme and my congratulations on the work carried out by mr takkula. let us talk about action 4 of this programme, which is aimed at preserving the places commemorating the mass deportations and exterminations committed by nazism and stalinism; i also wholeheartedly support the memory of the victims of these atrocious regimes which marked european and world history in the 20th century. but i would also add that other victims, equally innocent and unjustly treated by history, such as the victims of fascism and other european dictatorships, cannot be excluded in any way. in fact, mr president, less than a month ago the council of europe adopted a resolution condemning the franco regime. if one of the objectives of this programme is to forge a european identity based on common values, history and culture and to strengthen european integration on the basis of respect, mutual understanding and appreciation of cultural diversity, the european parliament cannot fail to respect the history of many european countries which suffered for many years repression and murder in their struggle for freedom. in spain, the achievement of democracy is closely linked to our entry into the european union, now twenty years ago. and it is right that, in the framework of this programme, we should pay tribute to the victims of this dark period in our history, because that would help to strengthen the ties between citizens and the union. ladies and gentlemen, the shortage of funds - which is a reality - cannot justify the exclusion of some victims over others. and it is not a question of equating wars with each other or of quantifying a massacre in terms of the deaths committed, but of remembering all the victims, so that the preservation of their memory prevents events like this from ever happening again. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the amendments, which have already been supported by more than 60 members from different groups in this parliament, because they will enrich the programme, on the basis of full recognition of european historical memory and with a view to reinforcing the feeling of citizenship.
i would like to open today's sitting by extending a very warm welcome, on behalf of myself and all members of the european parliament, to mr alexander milinkevich, leader of the democratic opposition and candidate for the presidency of belarus. (applause) mr milinkevich, as leader of the united opposition, you had the courage to stand in the recent presidential elections in belarus, elections which were not considered democratic by our parliament. the european parliament admires your courage and perseverance during and after the election campaign and wishes to express our full solidarity with you, your compatriots and your country. europe will not be fully democratic until belarus is a free country. (applause) you can be sure that the european parliament will continue to support human rights and democracy in your country. you will notice that some members of parliament have adorned themselves with a scarf whose colours they are trying to physically express this support and i must tell you that, thanks to the reform of the rules of procedure which we have recently pushed through and which is in force, the president can allow the presence of these external symbols, which he would have had to ask for to be removed under the previous rules of procedure. we must therefore welcome the reform of the rules of procedure, and you can see that in some cases the presidency's initiatives are positive.
we shall now come to the item on the agenda concerning the state of the financial perspective. on this subject i would briefly inform the house that our negotiating team, chaired by mr lewandowski, has reached an agreement with the representatives of the commission and the council. as you know, parliament had set itself quantitative and qualitative objectives for the financial perspective, namely an increase in overall resources on the one hand and a better structure and better ways of implementing the budget on the other. the ceiling on the december council position has been raised by eur 4 billion in 'fresh money', which will be added to the resources of certain programmes that had been severely cut, in particular erasmus, lifelong learning programmes, innovation and aid for small and medium-sized enterprises. these additional resources are supplemented by an increase in the european investment bank's reserves by eur 2.5 billion to finance programmes in favour of research and development, transport networks and aid to small businesses. the flexibility instrument maintains the amount for the current period, 200 million per year, but with the possibility of carrying over unused resources to the next two financial years. that is the summary of the agreement reached yesterday, but i am sure that our rapporteur, mr böge, will be able to give a fuller presentation of that agreement. the political groups will have an opportunity to assess the agreement in our debate.
thank you very much to everyone who has intervened. the council and the commission have had the opportunity to hear the political groups express varying degrees of dissatisfaction, in some cases satisfactory dissatisfaction and in other cases dry dissatisfaction. they also heard an appeal for further work to be done to provide the union with a system of own resources which, in future budgetary negotiations, would allow it to avoid the bargaining among national egoisms to which several group chairmen have referred. mr schüssel, we want to encourage you to continue on this path which you have so courageously outlined. we are convinced that this is the future of the union, with better budgets so that the union can achieve its objectives. the political groups will debate and parliament will vote at its next sitting on the agreement reached by our negotiators on your behalf. this spot closes. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
we now continue the debate on the results of the european council and the lisbon strategy.
mr president, given the high expectations which have been raised in the weeks before the spring council about the possibility of creating a common energy policy, the council's conclusions in this area are on the one hand hopeful but on the other disappointing. they are encouraging because, for the first time, a council text includes a section devoted exclusively to the launching of a common energy policy, because it emphasizes the issues on which the european parliament has been insisting for some time, such as the correct application of existing directives, the need to meet the commitment of the member states on interconnections, the lack of investment in infrastructure and research and development, and the need to complete the internal energy market: a series of proposals which we hope the member states will implement quickly. but let's not kid ourselves. the council has once again lacked vision and ambition in this crucial field of energy. with the exception of a couple of issues, such as the need to speak with one voice in the global arena and the possible creation of a solidarity mechanism to deal with crisis situations, the rest of the measures are already contained in various existing directives and in previous summit agreements. we also miss a frank discussion between heads of state and government on the political barriers that some governments are putting up to the smooth functioning of the internal energy market. the commission's proposals are not in line with the spirit of the treaty and the treaty of rome, but they are in line with the spirit of the treaty of rome. i would like to conclude, mr president, by conveying to the council the satisfaction with which we have welcomed its proposal to fulfil existing obligations and the disappointment at the lack of political courage to establish, as the majority of this house and also the european commission are asking you to do, a genuine common energy policy, which the union urgently needs, because it is its future.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i have three messages for you. first of all, i would like to thank the european council, and in particular chancellor schüssel, for the support they have given the spanish government in the long process of overcoming terrorism, following the announcement of the ceasefire by the terrorist group eta. thank you very much. secondly, i welcome the fact that the european council has endorsed the spanish-swedish initiative for a pact for gender equality, between men and women, which is one of the most important fronts for progress in europe. thirdly, i shall refer to energy policy. finally, we are beginning to talk about energy policy, but rather than attacking protectionism, we must do energy policy, and we must start by achieving what the saxons call a level playing field. there are currently two liberalised markets in europe, namely the united kingdom and spain. what is needed is to get rid of the armor and to make european policy. the commission, in addition to preaching to others, has to do its homework. it would be interesting to know, for example, what the commission thinks, from a european point of view, about the baltic gas pipeline and european solidarity. the commission, having accepted parliament's proposals on the liberalization of services directive, should also bring us a directive on services of general economic interest. because we are not talking about the market, but about profits and public service companies, and the commission has an obligation to do its duty.
we shall now proceed to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
the voting is closed. the explanations of vote will take place after the formal sitting.
mr president of the republic of malta, it is a great pleasure for me to welcome you to the european parliament today and to offer you the opportunity to address the members of parliament, who have been talking a lot about your country in recent days. today you are here as head of state, but we are well aware of your long commitment to european integration, as prime minister of your country, for many years - the years of malta's path towards the union. almost three years ago you signed the treaty of accession, which represented the culmination of many years and many efforts to make malta a member of the european union. it is a very important sign of the consensus that exists today in malta on european integration that last july you, your country, your kamra tad-deputati - the house of representatives of malta - unanimously ratified the constitutional treaty, and that you did so after others had rejected it. (applause) you have thus sent a very clear signal at a difficult time for the union and put an end to the political divisions which had characterised the european debate in your country. today, your presence in this chamber reminds us of something very important: european enlargement has been looking eastwards for a long time, today malta, in the south, reminds us of our mediterranean vocation and of the need to strengthen our dialogue with the countries of the mediterranean basin. your country is at the crossroads of the mediterranean and has always been at the centre of policies concerning europe's southern borders. today relations with the countries of the south are the main geopolitical challenge facing europe and especially your country, which is at the forefront of this meeting; at the forefront of the arrival of many human beings who want to go to europe, risking their lives many times, because we are for them a new eldorado, which attracts them with the magnetic force that has the welfare for those who suffer the most absolute poverty. that is why we know that malta is facing a very large number of asylum seekers and migrants arriving on its shores today. we've been talking about this issue here. we have heard the report of a delegation from the european parliament which has had the opportunity to visit the camps. they reflect the most important challenge facing europe in defending and protecting human rights and building better relations with its neighbours to the south. in these special circumstances, mr president, your visit is very welcome and therefore what you can tell us will be of great interest to parliament. thank you for joining us. you have the floor. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the republic of malta. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, it is both a pleasure and an honour for me to address your institution. as a representative of one of the countries that joined the european union in 2004, i am bringing with me recent experience of what enlargement means, both in terms of what a country goes through in preparing for membership of the european union, and in terms of what the first impact of membership on a new member state means. my country looks at membership of the european union as a natural return to the european home to which we belong. we are proud to be part of the family of nations that is the european union, with all its spiritual, cultural and human heritage. our journey towards membership has not been easy. we went through a long and hard debate until, three years ago, the maltese people took a clear and sovereign decision in favour of membership through a referendum and then a general election. this lively debate led us to discuss the merits and pitfalls of the partnership in an open and free way, while carefully analysing the possible impact of the partnership in terms not only of the economy, but also of politics and society. in this sense, it was an exercise in bringing europe closer to the people - an exercise we do well to continue. preparations for membership have been a burden for the countries that joined the latest enlargement. true, there has never been growth on this scale. but never before have candidate countries been asked to make such major reforms as part of the preparations for membership. i would like to congratulate all the new member states of the european union for having gone through such a difficult process. i would also like to congratulate the european union itself for the enormous catalytic effect it has had in encouraging countries to embrace reform. we often speak of the pessimism that has ruled europe since the two referendums held last year when the european constitutional treaty was rejected. on the other hand, they failed to sufficiently recognise the very great success that the european union has had in absorbing growth so naturally. it is not that 2005 was not europe's 'annus horribilis', as some have claimed, but that it was a great success for a europe that had proved itself capable of meeting the challenge of its greatest historical growth. today we often forget that the growth actually took place less than two years ago. this does not mean that life after membership is easy. on the contrary, adjustment to the realities of membership is as difficult for an economy as it is for society. this requires leaders to make tough decisions, which are often unpopular. these decisions are necessary, whether a country joins the european union or not. membership of the european union simply makes these decisions more real, more demanding, more inevitable. what is certainly wrong is to blame europe for unpopular reforms, which are in reality decisions that every responsible government has to take. it is wrong for governments to blame europe for these difficult decisions, and then take credit for their fruits. mr president, i would like to share my thoughts with you on a number of other issues. i will start by reflecting on the european constitutional treaty. we must accept that there were some shortcomings in the way the constitutional project was proposed, even if these difficulties have more to do with form than substance. for example, for new member states the constitutional project seemed to have arrived too early and too quickly. the time aspect also counts. and indeed, for countries that were painstakingly preparing for membership, the prospect of changing the rules of the treaty seemed like a game-changing exercise when the finish line of the marathon race was in sight. i know that the constitutional treaty was supposed to speed up decision-making in the union of 27, but it is clear that citizens of some of the member states saw it differently. the union they had grown up in had changed with the enlargement of 1995, and changed even more with the enlargement of 2004 and - against the background of globalisation - with the enlargement of the union. the constitutional project seemed to bring with it a state of uninterrupted change. in retrospect, therefore, it might have been wiser to give this important project more time, not only until the 10 new states had found their feet, but also until all 25 members had had time to adapt to the new realities of the european union. the question, however, remains how to break out of the current impasse. it goes without saying that the expressed wishes of the peoples in the two countries that have not accepted the constitutional treaty must be respected. the same applies to the decisions of the 14 countries that have ratified it. in countries, for example, the constitutional treaty was adopted unanimously by our national parliament, thereby sealing once and for all our commitment to partnership, and clearly breaking away from previous divisions. this is the time to debate and share our views on the road ahead with a number of scenarios. one scenario is to stick to the commitment made by the signatory heads of state or government to try to find a solution within the european council if four out of five member states have ratified the constitutional treaty and one or more member states have difficulties. this makes it necessary to continue the ratification process so that the agreed process can continue and then we can see clearly how we should move forward. another scenario could include the drawing up of a european charter from the first two sections of the constitutional treaty. this could offer european citizens a clear and concise document with which they can better identify. the other section, the constitutional treaty, can be considered to have been largely ratified by the existing treaties. another scenario could include strengthening the protocol's role of national parliaments in particular extending their consultative role with regard to the european project. of course, there are other options that could be considered. this is the purpose of this time of reflection. let's not get carried away. mr president, political leadership in europe we often talk about a lack of political leadership in europe. this is not due to a lack of initiatives, certainly not in europe. this may be due, if nothing else, to a lack of coherence between the initiatives. why can we expect political leadership if some initiatives lack coherence? what is the coherence of stressing solidarity on the one hand, and failing to provide adequate financial means on the other? what coherence do we have if we remove borders on the one hand and rebuild barriers on the other? what coherence is there if we call for collective action, but then leave countries in difficulty to go it alone? i do not think that a lack of political leadership can be attributed to individual community institutions, whose initiatives and perseverance speak for themselves. if anything, any lack of trust in them should be addressed. confidence is not like talent, it is not born with us, it has to be earned. we therefore need to ask ourselves what we can do to regain confidence in the european union and its institutions. this can be done by rebuilding a link with the people. and here i praised the work of the commission which has gone to the hard work of bridging the gap with citizens through plan d. as a directly elected institution at european level, the european parliament is ideally placed to support the work of the commission. building a link with citizens is not a matter of words. it is a matter for the more informed. and if europe communicates better, it will be better placed to reflect the aspirations of europeans and to deliver on all that affects them. mr president, in addition to communicating better, to strengthen trust we also need to be more efficient in the areas in which the european union is already engaged. we can also strengthen confidence by showing that the european union can and must engage in new common initiatives in areas where we are facing new challenges that cannot be tackled by individual countries alone. we must continually ensure that the european union adds more and more value to its member states and its citizens. but more importantly, we can build confidence by showing that, in our policies, in our decisions, in our actions both internally and externally, the european union is capable of giving a voice to reason. by this i mean a union that consistently shows a sense of balance and fairness in developing its policies, in its decision-making, and also in its actions with other countries around the world. in this respect there is enough evidence to make me optimistic that trust can indeed be regained because the union is showing that it is willing to be on the side of reason. let me give you some examples: as a maltese, i am also an observer of the way the european union seeks to balance the interests of large and small countries. i have always been convinced that the european union is not the size of your country of origin that counts, but the strength of your ideas and the clarity of your vision. size counts, too, of course. but the european union is unique in the way it develops a model of governance that balances the interests of the big and the small and often combines these interests in common interests. this is a value to be noted. it deserves to make europe what it is, rich in diversity and respectful of the evident differences of its members. this may also explain why small countries are so closely linked to the european project and to the community method. the european union is increasing the influence of small countries: strengthen their identity, and not least their linguistic identity, and really open up the wide horizons of the rest of europe and the world. the european parliament too must continue to build this balance and take account of the particular interests of small countries. the european union cannot and should not be a directorate of large countries. the services directive is another example of where the european institutions are standing out as a voice of reason. i commend the work of this parliament in reaching a compromise on such an important initiative. the wide endorsement of the european council is also a valid testimony to your work. now that a workable compromise has been found, it is time to bring the legislative process to a swift conclusion, so that european citizens can reap the real benefits of the internal market for services. the initiative under the common energy policy to meet the major challenge of adequate energy supply is another desirable development for which the commission should be commended and supported. it is such initiatives that show that europe is indeed worthy of trust. but there are other challenges where europe has moved too slowly and where action at european level is increasingly needed. in these areas we need to work harder to give voice to reason, to strike a fair balance and thus strengthen trust. i feel that the european commission's work on the development of a maritime policy is of particular importance because it seeks to put europe's intrinsic maritime advantage at the top of the agenda. aside from being from an ancient maritime nation, i am convinced that europe's maritime heritage is still not sufficiently exploited at european level. we need to adopt a holistic approach. we must not let short-term interests in certain areas overshadow our leading position in maritime issues in their globalisation. we should strive to lead the maritime world rather than trying to create our own privileged space within it. confidence must be earned not only from within the union but also from outside. and here too we must demonstrate our ability to strengthen trust through justice. our euro-mediterranean policy is a clear example. the complexity of this region, which we share with our neighbours, and its intrinsic link to the middle east peace process, call us more than ever to be a voice of reason. the recent incidents following the publication of certain bad-luck cartoons have been a step backwards in this respect. but they give us an opportunity to rebuild trust also at this level. another challenge comes from the obvious but inevitable consequences of globalisation. the answer to this challenge cannot be found in protectionism or in the abandonment of what has been achieved so far. there must be a fair balance between the inevitable consequences of free trade on the one hand, and the assertion of europe's core values, and not least our social model, on the other. finding such a balance is no easy task. but we cannot forget that it is europe's sense of balance and reason that is distinguishing it more than other actors in the international arena. another challenge that is more visible at the human level is the challenge of irregular immigration. a few days ago a delegation from your institution visited my country as part of parliament's ongoing work touring countries in europe and beyond to examine the scale of the challenge of irregular immigration. this is a problem that is currently placing a heavy burden on the capacity of a number of member states, and not least my own country, to cope with the seemingly unstoppable influx of people, coming mainly from sub-saharan africa. as your delegation has seen, even when talking to immigrants and asylum seekers, the problem is as real as it is urgent. on the one hand, the mediterranean is facing a human catastrophe in which hundreds of people are drowning trying to reach europe, while thousands more are living in uncertainty and difficult conditions after doing so. at the same time, countries receiving a strong inflow are seeing their capacity and resources stretched to the limit. it is clear that the problem is not just malta's, nor is it the problem of any one country alone. it is a common challenge that requires a collective effort. however, i would like to emphasise that malta's problem is more acute, as malta is the most populous member state. europe urgently needs an immigration policy that can offer a more concrete response to this problem in all its complexity. a response that offers the typical european solidarity with the people involved in this drama, with the countries of origin, but also with the first arrivals in europe who do not have the means to face this problem alone. i therefore thank the european parliament, and the members of the delegation to malta, for putting this item on parliament's agenda and for heeding the country's call for urgent action. mr president, if we are to build trust we must appear to be responding effectively to the interests of the people. and to do that we need to recognize the mood of the people. political leaders should not follow the people but lead them. but they should also not move too fast, or they will leave people behind and be cut off from the realities of the world. here too a balance must be found. there are a number of values that distinguish europe from other continents and the european union from other regional integration projects in the world. europe is already distinguished by its full commitment to the values of peace, tolerance, human rights and solidarity. the european union is becoming increasingly distinctive as a voice of reason among its neighbours and in the world. europe's voice of reason requires us to go beyond the boundaries of our national egos and to work together for our common good. we must continue to preserve this value both in our action among ourselves and with other countries. this is the europe that citizens expect from us and this is the europe they are ready to trust. thank you.
thank you very much, mr president, for your words. i am sure that your presence here has helped all members to become more aware of the difficulties facing their country. thank you for your words of praise for the work of the european parliament. i also hope that the alarm cries which our members have sounded in their visit to your country have been heard by all those responsible, and that your government and the institutions of the union will apply them effectively to ensure that the policy of welcoming people into europe achieves a higher level of respect for citizens of other countries who are trying to reach our countries. (applause) i would like to thank
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the high representative for the common foreign and security policy and the statement by the commission on the situation in the middle east following the elections in israel.
high representative for the cfsp. mr president, it is my duty to appear before you in the european parliament at a time which i understand to be critical for the future of peace in the middle east, immediately after the formation of the new palestinian government and the holding of elections in israel. i would like to speak briefly about the current situation and draw some conclusions about how the european union should assume its responsibilities at this crucial moment, on which the future of peace in the middle east may significantly depend. let me start with the situation in the occupied territories. as you know, the hamas government has taken over the reins of government; it is not a coalition government, but a hamas government, and its programme, as presented by its prime minister, ismail haniya, is unfortunately not acceptable to the international community, it gives no clear indication that the hamas government is prepared to respect the principles laid down by the european union, and not only by the european union, but by the quartet and by the international community at large: renouncing violence as an instrument for resolving conflicts - and in particular this one - recognizing the state of israel and respecting the agreements signed between the palestinians and israel in the previous years. mr president, we believe that these principles are the minimum requirements for the political ideal which the european union has always defended to be realised. that ideal is nothing other than a negotiated solution leading to the creation of a viable palestinian state, living side by side peacefully with israel, within the framework of the principles of international law. it is clear, mr president, that there can be no negotiation if the parties do not recognize each other, that there can be no peaceful settlement if the parties rely on arms to resolve the conflict and that there can be no solution based on the principles of international law if the parties disregard the fundamental principle that agreements must be respected. all this must have consequences for the european union which we believe are unavoidable. the impossibility at this moment - we will see what may happen in the future - of considering hamas as a valid interlocutor as long as its positions do not change. mr president, allow me to say a few words about the result of the elections in israel, which is certainly open to a wide range of interpretations. it is not my intention, nor would it be appropriate, to make a detailed analysis of the outcome of this election, but i think that some comments can help us all to find formulas that allow us to make an analysis to find different ways of working. first of all, i would like to point out that although there has been a clear winner, the kadima party, it has not obtained the results it wanted, and this may have some bearing on the negotiations to form the government coalition, which is absolutely necessary, even though candidate olmert has already chosen the labour party as the fundamental basis of his coalition. secondly, and this is important in my view, i think we must note a weakening of the strictly political aspect in favour of the economic and social aspect in the electoral result. i think that such an analysis explains the result achieved by the labour party, the result achieved by the party of pensioners or by those parties which have a limited social or linguistic base, whether it is the shas party or the israel beitenu party, the party of the russian-speaking community. thirdly, and perhaps most disturbingly for all of us and for the peace process, i think that the elections seem to have shown a consolidation of what i would call the will to separate, perhaps manifested by the completion of the wall, and an absence of dialogue between the two peoples in defining the borders of israel. for us, this situation is untenable. we have always maintained that the final fixing of frontiers can only be done by mutual agreement. we are therefore, as we have always been, in the line of negotiation to solve these problems. the self-concentration of the israeli electorate also has, if i may say so, a counterpart in hamas' own willingness to focus on the palestinian issues and ignore an israel whose right to exist it continues to reject. and we cannot ignore the fact that all this will have consequences for the possibilities of implementing what has been for us the road map, the road map, which, although it may go through difficult moments, must remain a point of reference on how to resolve the process definitively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the aspects of the middle east peace process, the coming to power in palestine, through free and democratic elections, as has been acknowledged by the union's own observers, of a movement like hamas, affiliated with the muslim brotherhood, is a complete novelty. the european union does not want and should not, in principle, want the hamas government to fail. what we want is for that government, in addition to respecting the principles that you know well, which have been proposed by the international community, to apply also the principles of the rule of law, the rule of law and democratic alternation, and to preserve the pluralistic character of palestinian society. if it does, hamas can be considered a full-fledged political entity for us. in this context, what do i think the european position should be? let me stress once again what is absolutely obvious: a satisfactory solution to the conflict has been, is and will be a key priority for us europeans. at this time, more than ever, it is imperative to insist that only a negotiated solution can be stable and lasting. we must therefore continue to press both sides to commit to a negotiated solution based on the existence of two states. i think it is appropriate to recall today too that the european union maintains that peace must be based on respect for the 1967 borders and that only those territorial changes which have been agreed by both sides will be acceptable. as you know, the european union's role has grown considerably in recent months, in recent times. today we have two operations on the ground: a police operation and the major operation, which is still very much alive, of the border crossing at the rafah post. more than 200,000 people have crossed from egypt to gaza and from gaza to egypt since it opened last november, thanks to the presence of generous people from the european union. mr president, our fundamental objective is to be able to get through this period, which will still be a period of some uncertainty, which is opening up before us in such a way that, when the possibilities are most favourable - and i hope they will be soon - for a negotiated peace, the european union can continue to have the confidence of both sides and be able to be an active agent of peace at that time. with regard to the key players in the conflict, our principles are clear and are as follows, at this time. the european union will continue to support president abbas and the peace programme with which he was elected, and we cannot forget that, by a huge, overwhelming majority of the palestinian voters. in accordance with the quartet statement of 30 march, the european union is currently reviewing its aid programmes to the palestinian authority. it is clear that until hamas shows an unequivocal position of respect for the principles of the international community, we feel that talking about business as usual should not be the way to talk. but i also want to make it very clear that the european union will continue to help the palestinian people, and it must do so for at least two reasons: firstly, because it is a moral imperative, which the european union can never renounce - it did not do so yesterday, it will not do so today and it will not do so tomorrow - and secondly, because the humanitarian crisis and instability in the occupied territories do not benefit anyone, starting with israel itself. ladies and gentlemen, let me say that another essential objective of the european union is to preserve the institutional structure of the palestinian authority. the european union has invested a great deal, has devoted efforts and resources to the construction of that palestinian authority and believes that this authority must be maintained, so that one day a viable and democratic palestinian state can exist. with regard to israel, mr president, the european union must continue to reject unilateral measures which could jeopardise the two-state solution. the union will in particular follow developments in east jerusalem, in the jordan valley, where israel is carrying out actions particularly damaging to the palestinians and the construction of the separation barrier. under international humanitarian law, israel has a number of obligations as an occupying power. facilitating the transit of humanitarian aid to the palestinian population is essential, but beyond a strict interpretation of this obligation, israel should also facilitate movement in the occupied territories to enable economic sustainability, without thereby compromising the security of israelis, something that no one wants. in this context, i believe it is urgent that the parties implement the agreement on access and movement, which was signed in november 2005 in jerusalem, and which i was present at the signing. that agreement allowed the opening of the rafah border crossing - where, as i have already said, the union plays a role - and other transit mechanisms between israel and the occupied territories. israel - and let me stress this phrase most strongly, which i hope will be understood by everyone, including the future prime minister and our good friend mr olmert - must transfer to the palestinian authority the money it collects on behalf of the palestinian authority through tariffs and taxes, which does not belong to it. (applause) this is money that should not and cannot be withheld. i want to say, as loudly and as clearly as possible, that we are prepared to work with both sides to ensure that the use of these resources comes to a successful conclusion, and i believe that, with good will on the part of all, it will be possible. thirdly, i would like to say a few words about the international framework and the objectives of the union. we must continue to work within the quartet. the defence of international law requires the resolute support of the entire community of nations which are today more or less represented in the quartet. we must also involve the arab states, which can and must do much more today from an economic and political point of view. and here i would like to refer to the initiative of the beirut peace plan, with the aim of trying to bring hamas closer to that plan, also called the 'arab peace plan' on other occasions, because i think it may open some doors to move in that direction. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think the time has come to remember that the palestinian-israeli conflict is part of a serious crisis affecting the entire middle east region. we have to work on the peace process, taking into account the positive role that the states in the region can play, but also taking into account the negative role that some states can have, and some negative influences and some negative reverberations, such as the situation in iraq or the situation in iran. mr. president, i'm going to finish, so i can't get any attention. the outcome of the elections in the occupied territories and in israel has undoubtedly created a new situation. the european union must approach this on the basis, in my view, of two principles which may seem contradictory, but only seemingly: rigour and flexibility. strictness for what? to maintain the principles which have defined the european position since the venice european council in 1980, namely respect for the rights of the israeli and palestinian peoples, which must be concretized in a negotiated solution leading - as i have said so many times and as you have all repeated - to the creation of an independent, sovereign and democratic palestinian state living side by side in peace with israel. and also the flexibility to adapt to the evolution of a reality on the ground that is going to change, that can be changing, and to support all the solutions that allow the cause of peace to advance. i would also like to address the palestinian government, and i would do so very directly from this chamber, which represents the heart of the european union. hamas cannot change its past, but it can and must change its future. (applause) if you decide that there is no place in that future for terror, violence or denial of the reality of the state of israel, i want to tell the hamas leadership that the european union will respond appropriately, as it has always done. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. mr president, i think mr solana has already covered nearly everything, but let me add a few comments because the commission is facing a very difficult period of profound and rapid change in the middle east. how we react and how the parties position themselves will have a determining influence on the prospects for moving towards what i hope will be a peaceful solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. we have congratulated acting prime minister olmert on kadima’s election victory. this undoubtedly represents some shift in israeli politics and we await with interest the outcome of the coalition negotiations currently taking place. that will take some time. let me underline that we, as the european union, stand ready to work with the next israeli government to promote security and peace, but for both israelis and palestinians alike. i am convinced that the majority of the population in both countries profoundly desires a peaceful and sustainable solution to the conflict. as for the european union’s bilateral relationship with israel, our sincere wish is to reinforce a strong, balanced relationship between us, reflected in our association agreement and in our enp action plan. we want to continue the progress that already has been made in implementing the action plan in areas such as human rights, the protection of minorities, research and development, as well as economic integration. there has been much speculation about the impact these elections will have on the prospects for peace, which mr solana has just tried to outline. one might be tempted to believe that the election result broadly endorsed acting prime minister olmert’s avowed intention to proceed with the establishment of permanent borders for israel by 2010, following further disengagement from the occupied west bank. the question for us is how this will be done. we strongly believe that israel’s legitimate security concerns cannot be met – and i would like to reiterate this on behalf of the commission – through unilateral action or decisions imposed by force. only a negotiated settlement will be sustainable. the european union would only support changes to the pre-1967 borders that were agreed by consensus between the parties. we support a two-state solution leading to a final and comprehensive settlement of the conflict, with israel and a palestinian state living side by side within secure and mutually recognised borders. i think it is important to say again and again that we should underline to our israeli partners the importance of refraining from any action that may prejudice final status negotiations. the commission expects the next israeli government to reaffirm its commitment to a negotiated solution by full implementation of the quartet’s roadmap, and to show this in deeds as well as words. but as ever, we have to work with both sides. just as we must be clear with the new israeli government, we also have to be very firm with the new palestinian government. there can be no compromise on the quartet’s principles – mr solana has just outlined them, we have mentioned them in the council statement, we have also mentioned them in the quartet. we expect the new palestinian government – sworn in last week – to commit to the principles of non-violence, recognition of israel and acceptance of previous agreements and obligations, including the roadmap, which then bind the palestinian authority to the fundamental principles of peace, democracy, respect for the rule of law and human rights. of course, we have heard quite a number of comments, some of which go further; but we have also seen some very slight signs of possible solutions, possible changes. we are fully aware of the considerable economic and humanitarian needs of the palestinians – and indeed we do not want to let them down – and of the need to break the vicious cycle of poverty and extremism. that is why the commission has already mobilised over eur 120 million to help meet the basic needs of the palestinians and to stabilise the finances of the caretaker government, which has just left office. that is why we intend to continue to provide emergency humanitarian aid and assistance for basic human needs. but, and i must repeat this because it will be the basis for what can be done, unless the new government complies with the quartet’s conditions, there can be no ‘business as usual’. unless circumstances change, there will inevitably be an impact on assistance to the palestinian government, which the commission is now reviewing in line with the quartet statement. in this regard, we are just preparing the next council, where we will try to come up with lines of approach; we will not have full solutions, but we will try to move in the right direction. so the onus is clearly on the palestinian side, and on the new israeli government to act responsibly in fulfilling its obligations. i firmly believe that both sides, especially the population, are tired of the conflict and desperate for peace, but it is up to their leaders to show responsibility and statesmanship as we move forward. it is in their hands, and only in theirs, to put an end to the violence and despair that has blighted the lives of so many generations. we are ready to work both within the european institutions and with the international community to make this possible, even in the most difficult circumstances. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, after listening to the statements by the high representative and commissioner ferrero-waldner, i think the terms of the ever complex equation of war and peace in the middle east are quite clear: a coalition government in israel after the elections on 28 march. the commissioner has made a statement saying that the development of the eu-israel partnership must be deepened. and all of this, as mr solana has said, in an environment of light and shadow. the next meeting of the association council will take place in the coming days. the situation in iraq and iran is grim, where we really have to wait for the 30-day deadline that the un security council has given for iran to comply with the demands of the international atomic energy agency. i believe that our political group has no choice but to support decisively the quartet's decision to call on the hamas government to renounce violence and to recognize the state of israel and the agreements signed by the palestinian national authority. in this context, i would like to put three questions to mr solana and mrs ferrero-waldner. the first is whether they have detected, during the quartet meeting on 30 march, a dissenting position on the part of russia, in view of the visit that hamas paid to moscow and the position that the european union has maintained in the elections in belarus. secondly, mrs ferrero-waldner, it is clear that the european union must continue to provide humanitarian aid, because the situation in the gaza strip is absolutely dramatic, with the number of people living in poverty having skyrocketed. but how does the european commission intend to ensure that this humanitarian aid is not used for terrorist activities? and finally, mr solana, we all understand the need to support the palestinian national authority, but in a context like this, is the palestinian national authority still relevant, working with a government that has not recognised the previous commitments signed by the palestinian national authority? and i conclude, mr president, by saying that this morning the president of malta said that the voice of the european union must be the voice of reason, and i believe that both mr solana and mrs ferrero-waldner represent in a very credible way the voice of reason of the european union, which must continue to work in this heartbreaking middle east conflict in favour of the cause of non-violence, democracy, peace, harmony and reconciliation. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr solana, mrs ferrero-waldner, it is indeed a question of achieving peace, a just peace and two viable states, and hamas is making some declarations of peace, of taking over the process and - although, in my opinion, still indirectly - of recognizing israel. as you know, your foreign minister, referring to peace based on a two-state solution, addressed kofi annan yesterday with these words: 'we hope to live in peace and security, alongside our neighbours, in this sacred part of the world.' the finance minister has stated that hamas' intention is to increase ties with the west and even to achieve an accommodation with israel. and, in my opinion, the prime minister acknowledges the quartet by stating: our government is prepared to engage in dialogue with the quartet, to end the state of fighting and pacify the region. we will spare no effort to achieve a just peace in the region. in my view, the union's duty is to take account of this new reality and to lead a strategy to end the current impasse, for the benefit of two peoples, two viable states and a just peace.
mr president, i would like to congratulate those who have taken this initiative, who are many in the decision-making chain, because i think it is exceptional. i am particularly interested in two subjects. firstly, the problem of training at the place of origin. i think one of the problems in europe is that we have not developed any strategy on aid policy in relation to health and, in particular, training. on the one hand, i think that in europe we have pursued a very selfish policy of numerus clausus in most universities and nursing schools, to guarantee the employment of our students, without realizing that there were prospects in europe itself, and needs, which were going to overwhelm the capacity for care; hence the need for doctors and nurses coming from other countries. this is obviously giving rise to the drainage that is so often talked about today. but at the same time, i think that in the development aid strategy, universities should be set up alongside hospitals. the investment policy must not be limited to roads, but also to hospitals and the training of human resources. there should also be a concrete, specific programme that delivers results. on the other hand, there is a matter which concerns me very much, because i know it very well: the difficulties in the distribution of medicines and even the corruption that exists in the process of distribution of medicines. we know the difficulties they have in carrying out their work, in accessing medicines, even hospitals on the spot, in cameroon and in other countries, and how many times the very drugs to combat aids, which are being sent for free, are being charged a premium by those who distribute them. i think that in this context europe must spend more money on training in its programmes, but at the same time control much more the distribution of aid and prevent this corruption, which is a permanent obstacle, and thus avoid the frustration of those who are looking after the sick.
mr president, i was looking at mr daul in a distracted way, and he has expressed himself very well in a short time. i wish i could do the same. in any case, madam commissioner, i too would like to congratulate the commission on its swift reaction to the problems facing the poultrymeat and egg markets. it is also true that we have reacted with the urgency that was demanded of us in order to be able to amend these two regulations and for the commission to have a legal basis for action. but, mrs fischer boel, as you have said, this crisis is not caused at the moment by the appearance of an epizootic disease, which has not appeared in most member states, nor are there at the moment restrictions on the movement of birds within the union, but, as you have very well stated, it is due to a loss of consumer confidence and the consequent fall in consumption. in this respect, madam commissioner, we are facing a complex situation which has only just begun, but which is very similar to the two market crises suffered by beef following the appearance of bse. and on both occasions, commissioner, the market support measures were taken at community level and financed at 100 per cent. that is why my group has tabled two amendments to the commission's proposal to that effect. we accept 50% co-financing for health measures, but we ask that market support measures in response to the crisis caused by the loss of consumer confidence be community-wide and therefore be financed 100% by the european budget. commissioner, as i have said, we believe that proposing this cofinancing mechanism - member states' contributions to measures which have always been exclusively community measures - would create a serious precedent within the cap and could jeopardise the principle of the single market.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for being here tonight and above all i would like to express my deep satisfaction with the speed with which the commission has tackled this issue, which i believe is important for everyone, consumers and producers, in the european union. i am glad that you have noticed the fall in prices and also the fall in consumption that we are seeing in the european union. i am glad, because consumers are losing confidence, in the possibility of being infected with a disease that we all know cannot be transmitted in this way. however, the loss of confidence may lead them to stop consuming a product like eggs or chicken, which is, of course, very bad news. i think we have to distinguish between veterinary measures and market measures. you propose a market measure which, for the first time, you decide to confine. i take back my congratulations: 50% is not enough. in 1997, with the bse, you will remember that you paid 100 per cent. the same thing was done with foot and mouth disease. this is therefore a first precedent of co-financing of market measures which, as the honourable member has said, can lead to market imbalances, distortion of competition, a covert renationalisation of the common agricultural policy, which can lead to very bad results for everyone, including those who are sceptical of the common agricultural policy, because a renationalisation would lead to much more protectionism than they now think is enough. i think those who are sceptical of the current common agricultural policy should reflect. i therefore believe that it should not be co-financed and we have of course tabled an amendment which i hope will be supported by the house tomorrow. it is up to governments whether or not to apply for this subsidy. if it were 50 per cent, there would already be some governments on many occasions who would take a long time to do so. i think the basic problem is that there is no money to finance any emergency measures or to finance the common agricultural policy, because what we have is a terrible agreement, and for the future it is much worse, with the financial prospects that lie ahead. do you need money? the governments in the council must put it.
the commission's statement on the situation in south-eastern turkey is now being published.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank members for this very interesting discussion. i have listened with great interest to your remarks and these were duly noted. i think we can all conclude that the situation in south-east turkey is serious and, therefore, we all look forward to that situation being addressed vigorously through a comprehensive strategy, encompassing not just security concerns – which are legitimate – but also the socio-economic development of the region and the development of cultural rights. i should like to refer to prime minister erdogan’s speech of august 2005 – which i mentioned earlier – in which he emphasised the need to resolve through democratic means what he described as ‘the kurdish issue’. the commission will encourage the turkish government and its prime minister to take steps based on the commitment they made in that speech in diyarbakir. the stability of the region is key to properly addressing those issues and the continuation of terrorist attacks represents a serious threat in this respect. at the same time, it is very important that the security forces and the authorities show restraint and do not use excessive force when they deal with civilians. i should like to comment on a few issues raised by members. with regard to the semdinli incidents, i should like to say that investigations are going on both in the judiciary but also in the parliament and we are awaiting the outcome of those investigations and we will continue to follow the situation. i have noted the issue of progress and we are continually encouraging the turkish government to continue with the reforms and to extend more rights to the kurdish people. i refer to the recent development – at least it is a positive step – of allowing broadcasts in the kurdish language at certain times on the television and radio. we expect more to be done in this respect. i can assure members that we will continue to monitor the situation in the south east. all these issues will be raised with the turkish authorities as part of our regular monitoring of the political criteria.
the debate is closed.
we now come to the debate on the basis of six motions for resolutions on darfur.
author. mr president, since the invasion of iraq in march 2003, thousands of people have been detained by foreign troops, mainly from the united states and the united kingdom. in many of these cases, no specific charges have even been laid and they have even been prevented from having the procedural and judicial guarantees of a state governed by the rule of law. according to various sources, some 15 000 people are still being held in us detention centres in iraq and an unknown number of people are being held incommunicado and in places unknown even to the red cross, in clear and flagrant violation of international law. they're what we sometimes call "phantom prisoners". in addition, thousands of those detained have been in this situation for more than a year. the reports and evidence of torture, harassment and ill-treatment are not only growing, but are becoming more frequent and alarming. to this must be added, of course, the persecution of certain groups on account of their religious affiliation, as has been said, and as i understand this resolution to be rightly emphasizing. however, in addition to the assyrians, who are specifically mentioned in the resolution, i believe that we should also take into account other non-muslim minority groups, such as the yazidis or the turkmens, for example. in any event, i should like to make two proposals at this point which, although not formally included in the compromise resolution, seem to me to be fundamental. first of all, i would like to appeal to the multinational forces and the iraqi authorities to make the names of those detained public, to provide them with the necessary legal advice and to allow them to receive visits from their relatives, as we have also recently demanded in the case of guantánamo. secondly, i believe that this house should call loud and clear for the prosecution of all those who have been accused of criminal acts under international law, such as torture, illegal detention and imprisonment. this, ladies and gentlemen, has a lot to do with what we are dealing with in the temporary committee on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners.
the most important point in this motion for a resolution, in my view, is the penultimate one, which says: 'i call on the parliament of the republic of egypt to initiate a process of democratization and respect for the rule of law and human rights, so that it can play a leading role in the region as a model of parliamentary democracy in the future'. egypt is a key player in the middle east, a key player in the mediterranean and a privileged partner of the european union. but for all this, egypt must be a full-fledged democracy. unfortunately, we have seen in cases like mr nour's that this is not yet the case. i met mr nour at the first session of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, after its creation in march 2005, in cairo. our pressure got him released. i was with mr mcmillan-scott and mrs flautre in a meeting with him. he is a democrat and, from my point of view, the only thing that can be said is that he should be released. that is what we expect from the court of cassation that will meet next may, as a clear sign that egypt will allow freedom of expression, assembly and conscience and that everyone will be able to present their ideas freely in the future electoral processes.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 6 april 2006.
i would inform you that at its meeting on 6 april the conference of presidents accepted the request of the delegation for relations with iran to replace the name of that delegation with that of the delegation for relations with the islamic republic of iran. if we accept this proposal, we are in fact amending a resolution of parliament, the resolution which names delegations for relations with third countries. so it would be necessary for no one to object to it. if no objection is raised, the name of the delegation shall be replaced by the indication.
any other interventions? although, really, with a bang...
we are not going to open the debate here and now, which would be endless and which has already taken place where it should have taken place; it is now a question only of accepting or rejecting the proposal made by the conference of presidents. if there is opposition, we will vote on it, but not now: we must give notice so that members know that a vote is taking place. the name change of this delegation will therefore be put to the vote in plenary tomorrow at 11 a.m. during the voting period.
apart from the amendment which has just been made - that is to say, that tomorrow at 11 a.m. we shall have one more item to vote on - and which obviously changes the agenda, there are other amendments which i shall now explain. a corrigendum has been distributed concerning today's and tomorrow's agenda; in this corrigendum the changes which were decided on in strasbourg last thursday, 6 april, have already been included. it also contains the following amendments which i am proposing to the house with the support of the political groups:wednesday:firstly, after the oral question on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union, there will be the statement by the council and the commission on the suspension of aid to the palestinian authority. but contrary to what the corrigendum i have referred to says, there will be no resolution to conclude this debate. the corrigendum says yes, but there will be no such thing: there will be no resolution after this debate. as regards the report by our colleague mr mavrommatis on the promotion of multilingualism and language learning in the european union, which was scheduled to be the penultimate item on the agenda for this evening, we shall postpone it until tomorrow morning, as the second and last debate before the vote. finally, i should like to correct and say that, contrary to what was announced on 6 april in strasbourg, the sitting tomorrow, thursday, will begin at 9.00 a.m. and not at 8.30 a.m. i am aware of the consternation this announcement has caused you, but i hope that you will overcome the grief it has caused you. thursday: as regards the votes on thursday, the vote on mr gauzès' report on the service in the member states of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters is postponed in order to try to reach an agreement at first reading. we also add two reports, based on rule 131 of our rules of procedure: mr böge's report on the use of the solidarity fund (a6-0138/2006) and mr pittella's report on amending budget no 1/2006, concerning the floods in bulgaria, romania and austria. any comments?
as you know, decisions are taken by the conference of presidents or, failing that, by the secretaries of the political groups. i am informed by the services of the presidency that this decision was taken by the meeting of the political group secretaries yesterday at noon.
mr cohn-bendit, your spirit is no simpler than the average of parliament and what you propose or suggest must be taken into consideration. the secretaries of the political groups are supposed to attend the meetings of the political groups and convey the opinion of the political groups. we could now test the representativeness of the political group secretaries by voting on the amendment to the agenda, but is this strictly necessary? let's see.
i have been informed by the services of the presidency that this is an item which has been included, or has been proposed to be included, since the last conference of presidents. it has been proposed afterwards, and the proposal is to incorporate it without a resolution. it is a proposal which, of course, if there is anyone who declares that he does not accept it, must be put to the vote. so do not make any more intellectual efforts to understand what happened; simply pronounce on whether or not you accept that the agenda be modified by including a point on the suspension of aid to the palestinian authority which will not be followed by a resolution. (parliament adopted the proposal) the agenda therefore includes a point on a statement by the council of the commission on the suspension of aid to the palestinian authority, the debate on which will not be followed by a vote on a resolution. (the order of business is thus established.) i should also like to inform you that the one-minute question time on matters of political importance will take place after the oral question to the council on the amendment of the protocol on privileges and immunities.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement - twenty years after chernobyl: lessons for the future.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the oral question to the commission by mr brok, mr moscovici and mr van orden, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union (o-0034/2006 - b6-0019/2006).
member of the commission. mr president, before giving more substantive responses to the questions by mr brok, mr moscovici and mr van orden, i would like to begin by expressing my sympathy for all people affected by the floods that recently hit bulgaria and romania and countries falling outside the scope of today’s debate, in particular serbia. i can assure you that the commission is following the situation with the greatest attention and is ready to offer advice and support in tackling the impact of the floods once the damage has been assessed, as we did last year in the case of bulgaria and romania. (applause) concerning the first question as to whether the rhythm of reform in bulgaria and romania is such that they will be ready for accession by january 2007, the commission is currently assessing the progress made in both countries and is not yet in a position to confirm the answer to this critical question. as i said to the committee on foreign affairs on 3 april, the commission will report on developments until the end of april, so the cut-off date is 30 april, the end of this week. the full factual basis will therefore be available in the first two weeks of may. the commission will then provide an in-depth analysis on 16 may, and we will then be ready to discuss our assessment further with the honourable members of parliament. however, let me underline the priority of all priorities. the completion and implementation of judicial reform and concrete results demonstrating that these have a real effect on the ground are of paramount importance for our assessment. systemic conditions, structural conditions that show that the reforms are irreversible need to be in place. these are the critical yardsticks, since a fully functioning justice system underpins the functioning of the whole of society and the economy in its entirety. on the basis of our objective and balanced assessment, the commission will make a proposal on 16 may for a carefully calibrated decision that will maintain the momentum of essential remaining reforms up to and beyond accession of the two countries. i ask for the support of the parliament and the council for this rigorous and fair position. concerning the second question on the reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption and organised crime, both countries have shown determination to undertake necessary reforms in this field. in romania we note significant progress, as romania has continued to pursue the implementation of its legal package of 2005. i fully agree with mr moscovici that the rigorous monetary mechanism and the safeguard clause of postponement have provided very strong encouragement and an incentive, and these have produced very tangible results in the case of romania. in bulgaria amendments have been made to the constitution, reducing the scope of the immunity of members of parliament and establishing the leading function of the prosecution service in most investigations. however, there remains ambiguity concerning the independence of the judiciary and there is a serious backlog in cases related to organised crime. as regards the fight against organised crime in bulgaria, there are still very few investigations and prosecutions. the competent authorities seem in general to have a reactive instead of a proactive attitude. therefore, urgent attention is needed in this area. the same is true concerning money laundering in bulgaria. finally, on mr brok’s question concerning the safeguard clauses and monitoring, safeguard clauses are meant to tackle the possible negative consequences that may persist due to shortcomings in bulgaria and romania after accession. safeguards may for instance involve temporarily suspending specific rights under the eu acquis which are directly related to the shortcomings of a new member state. a number of safeguards are already provided in existing community legislation, for instance in the area of food safety or transport. in addition, the accession treaty contains three safeguard clauses: a general economic safeguard clause, a specific internal market safeguard clause and a third one which relates to justice and home affairs. without going into details of how they can be invoked, by way of example i will take the internal market safeguard, which is specifically designed to deal with cases where a new member state fails to fulfil commitments made in the accession negotiations. if such a failure causes or risks causing a serious breach in the functioning of the internal market, the commission may take appropriate measures to deal with that situation, even before accession, with entry into force upon accession. it is important to note that this does not require a unanimous council decision; it requires a commission decision based on our objective risk assessment of a candidate country’s possible shortcomings. it is clear that, in order to have a meaningful system of safeguard clauses, we also need a monitoring mechanism and, in its role as guardian of the treaties, the commission will assume this duty and will verify the implementation of eu legislation in the two countries. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, i am grateful for the answer from commissioner rehn, and i would like to refer in particular to romania. first of all, i would like to say that romania's progress on the road to accession seems to me to be evident, especially in areas which are of fundamental importance to this parliament, such as the reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption. i can say that romania has listened to the european parliament's voice on these issues. of course, the romanian efforts must continue, but the progress achieved is unquestionable and is in the right direction, as you have just acknowledged, commissioner. on another matter, i personally think it would be appropriate, as has been foreseen for some time, for romania and bulgaria to know in june, if possible, when they will join the union, that is, if they will join on 1 january 2007, as we all hope. i think that any further delay in a decision on the date of entry would be inconvenient, first and foremost for the countries concerned. i therefore believe that the timetable for accession should be set as soon as possible, preferably in june rather than in december, as mr van orden said earlier. moreover, the fact that it is clear in june that accession may take place in 2007 does not mean that by then the adaptation and reform efforts will be abandoned by the romanian or bulgarian authorities. you will also tell us in your autumn report whether, as you have just said, special safeguard measures are necessary, in accordance with the accession treaty, to deal with problems, with shortcomings, which may persist in certain sectors. the possibility has also been discussed and this question is therefore contained in the broader question of mr brok, mr moscovici and mr van orden on post-accession surveillance. i understand that, as you have just said, commissioner, the commission, as guardian of the treaties, has a duty of control. the accession treaty also implies specific supervision, since there are safeguard clauses which can be activated in the first three years. in future reports we shall see what you tell us about the supervision that may be necessary after accession. in short, we are living in historic times for romania and bulgaria; it is a matter of completing the fifth accession. these countries have already fallen behind the other 10 countries that joined in 2004. they are now anxious to avoid further delays and i believe we should encourage, support and reward these efforts. and we shall certainly be studying with the greatest interest, commissioner, your report for next may.
mr president, i would like to share with the commissioner a concern i have on the current market situation in romania by giving him an example. last year i visited rafo, the third biggest oil refining company in the country, and by far the biggest firm in the poor moldavia province. the company is trying to overcome major financial problems that have been accumulating since its privatisation in 2001. members of its administrative board made me aware of the pressures and obstructions they get from the romanian government to continue with the company’s activities. although in july last year a new investor clearly expressed its willingness to clear rafo’s nominal debt to the romanian authorities, until now the government has not shown any interest in this offer. moreover, the government’s demand for advanced vat payments for imported raw materials – which makes rafo the only company in romania to have its operation conditional on paying vat in advance – poses a serious threat to the company’s viability. this discriminatory treatment, which is against free market rules and which questions the impartiality of the romanian government towards the companies competing in the market, is still maintained in spite of the solvency and serious intentions of the new investors.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. the european union has a long tradition of solidarity with the palestinian people, and this applies to all the institutions of the european union, including this house. we have also always agreed in the past on the basis and principles which have determined this solidarity with the palestinian people and the european union's middle east policy in general. this basis is the right of israel to exist within secure and recognized borders and the right of the palestinian people to self-determination. the so-called oslo process and the road map have given concrete expression to this right of self-determination towards an independent palestinian state side by side with israel. the european union is therefore firmly committed to the two-state solution. all policy measures, including all european union support measures, have been put at the service of these principles. these principles continue to apply and the council believes that the peace process can only be carried out in accordance with these principles, which i would like to reiterate. firstly, there must be a clear rejection of any form of violence to resolve the conflict in favour of a comprehensive negotiation process. secondly, israel's right to exist must be recognized and, finally, the obligations of the existing agreement, including the road map, must be recognized. these are the principles which guide the council in its middle east policy. the european union therefore continues to support the peace policy of the palestinian president abbas, who was elected directly by the people by a large majority. the council has followed events in the middle east very carefully in recent months. the hope, of course, was that a newly elected palestinian government would be guided by these principles which i have mentioned. the council has been very careful to see whether there is any movement in this direction. unfortunately, we have to note today that the hamas government has shown no clear willingness to accept this basis for european union support unconditionally - nor has the response to the suicide bombing in tel aviv earlier this week been encouraging. at the same time, the council also has an interest in continuing to support the palestinian people and their basic needs. in this tension between the fact that the palestinian people have elected a government which does not stand on the basis of the principles governing the european union, on the one hand, and the effort not to abandon the palestinian people, on the other hand, the policy of the council and the commission must move. i would like to say explicitly that the commission has acted very responsibly in this respect and, as a precautionary measure, has suspended payments and technical assistance to the palestinian government until a final decision is taken. the last council of foreign ministers of the european union, in a very serious and thorough debate, reached agreement that on the one hand direct payments to the palestinian authority will be suspended indefinitely, but that at the same time efforts will be made through non-governmental organizations and international organizations to maintain aid to meet the basic needs of the palestinian people, including health and education. the major donors - and the union remains the largest donor - will continue to try to maintain aid without having to direct funds to the palestinian government institutions. so there will be no funding directly to the government and no funding through the government. the world bank has also carried out a study on the effects of reduced aid, including the effects of the israeli government's withholding of palestinian customs and tax revenues. the council has unequivocally called on the israeli government to take measures to improve the humanitarian and economic situation of the palestinians, and in particular to transfer the revenue from customs and taxation, which is the main source of revenue for the palestinian authority. we must of course ask ourselves: 'is there an alternative to this policy? other we believe that, given that hamas is an organisation that is on the list of terrorist organisations and shows no signs of moving towards recognition of the fundamental principles i have mentioned, the european union has no choice but to pursue a policy of - hopefully temporarily - suspending direct payments to the government. the priority will continue to be that the new palestinian government shares with us the basic principles which are indispensable for a successful peace process. a two-state solution without a democratically-based and functioning palestinian authority is by definition unthinkable. we must therefore hope to work towards this and also give clear signals so that the palestinian government will also be guided by these principles in the medium and long term. it is also important that the european union is in harmony with the international community. the quartet plays a very important role here, and it is important that we speak clearly the same language to the palestinian government and the palestinian people.
member of the commission. mr president, president- in-office, the election victory of hamas in january presented the european union with a totally new situation. we supported the palestinian elections and we also, i have to say, respect the outcome. but the heart of the matter is indeed the emergence of a palestinian authority whose government is led by members of an organisation included in the eu terrorist list, and that continues to this day to attempt also to justify, for instance, suicide bombings in israel. in january, the council and the quartet set out clear principles – that have just been mentioned again – for continued engagement with the palestinian authority. i am the first to regret that the new government has so far refused to renounce violence, recognise the right of israel to exist and accept existing agreements. these principles are indeed the expression of a commitment to work, as we said, for peace by peaceful means. they are not new: they have underpinned our cooperation with the palestinians for many years. as a result, the council, meeting two weeks ago as was just mentioned, endorsed the decision of the commission to temporarily put on hold assistance to or through the palestinian government and its ministries. the commission’s action is a precautionary measure taken to ensure that no community funds pass into the hands of hamas. we have taken it pending the possible evolution of the palestinian authority position and a definitive decision by the council on relations with the palestinian authority. it is not a definite decision: we are currently reviewing our projects involving payments to or through the palestinian authority to see whether we can find alternative solutions. my services have already held a meeting for instance with the office of president mahmoud abbas to discuss implementing some of those projects, for instance through the office of the president. i want to make very clear what this means. we have suspended payments going, as was said, to the palestinian government, but we have not suspended aid to the palestinian people. on the contrary, since the beginning of this year, we have stepped up our aid to the palestinians. on 27 february, i announced a eur 120 million package of aid, including help for refugees and help with fuel bills. this means that we committed almost half of our normal year’s budget in only two months. eur 100 million of this has already been paid: five times more than we paid for the same period in 2005. this represents an acceleration of our aid to the palestinian people, not a suspension of aid to the people. the commission is all too aware that the economic, social and humanitarian crisis in the palestinian territories is unfortunately getting worse. i have seen the reports from the visits that some members made to the region in the last few days, and i know you share our deep concern. we will also come forward with further measures to help the population, but we must also be clear on one point: the key to preventing a humanitarian disaster in the palestinian territories lies with israel and the palestinian authority, not with the international community. i have heard some people say that europe has been paying the salaries of the palestinian authority. this is just not true. our support to the palestinian authority budget in the past has been linked to reform. at most it has covered less than 10% of the salary bill. the real question is that of israel withholding palestinian customs and tax revenues. these are palestinian taxes which people have already paid. withholding them means that basic services will not be delivered, salaries cannot be paid and families will suffer. israel has also increased the closures of territory in the west bank and into and out of gaza. addressing these problems will do more to help the palestinian people than any measure the eu can take. all of us in the international community have to intensify our diplomatic efforts with israel on these two issues. on the palestinian side, president abbas has indeed a key role to play, including in negotiating with israel. we are looking at how we might best support his office, but we are not in the business of parallel structures. rather, we are looking with other donors at the possibility of establishing an international supervision mechanism that could facilitate the control of funds for donors to meet needs, for instance in the health and education sectors. the quartet meeting on 9 may is an opportunity for the international community to address this question, as well as measures israel could take to ease the humanitarian situation. i wish to conclude by stressing our wish to see an evolution of the positions taken by the government of the palestinian authority, not its failure. in this way we are looking to address the contradiction between the positions currently espoused by members of the new palestinian government and by hamas as an organisation and the eu objective of a negotiated solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict, with israel living side-by-side and at peace with a future palestinian state based on the 1967 borders.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. there is even talk of a possibility, which we hope will not materialize or materialize, namely civil war. in any case, as mrs ferrero-waldner has pointed out, it is clear that we are faced with a double contradiction: an internal contradiction from the point of view of the european union, because it is not possible for the european union to include the party that won the elections in its list of terrorist organizations and, on the other hand, to make a financial contribution from the community budget to an organization that does not renounce violence. and there is also an external aspect to this problem: the international community, mr president, must be united in rejecting terror and in rejecting violence. i therefore believe that this parliament should support the statement made by the presidency of the council. we must be firm in defending our principles; we must try to channel aid through the president of the palestinian national authority; we must ensure, as mrs ferrero-waldner has stressed, that the palestinian people do not suffer; and we must continue to provide aid for fundamentally humanitarian reasons. mrs ferrero-waldner also said that no one has helped the palestinian people as much as the european union. and it is strictly true, because of every 100 dollars that has been spent on this peace process, 60 has been put on the table by the european union. mr president, we cannot continue to help the palestinian people if their government does not help them, if it does not firmly and definitively reject terror, if it does not renounce violence and if it does not recognise the state of israel and the agreements which have been concluded between the palestinian national authority and the other partner in the peace process. these are the terms of the aid, mr president, and i think we must give full support, from this parliament, to the presidency of the council and the commission, which are taking a more than reasonable position.
mr president, europeans are faced with a clear choice in the middle east: either we join the great international coalition seeking the isolation and eventual total collapse of the palestinian authority led by hamas, or we opt for an autonomous european policy which seeks to let hamas govern with a series of realistic, staggered political and security conditions to which the european union could respond with more dialogue, more aid and, eventually, measures of political recognition. we must not repeat the mistakes of the post-war iraq: the chaos and collapse of palestinian institutions could also harm israel, which is seeking security. israel will not be able to carry out its announced unilateral withdrawal plan in an environment of increasing violence, social despair and civil war. if we are making political demands on the palestinians, we cannot ignore the possibility of the liberman party entering the next israeli government with a political programme that is openly racist towards israel's arab minority. for a member of a government to speak openly of a mass transfer of israeli arab populations and to drastically limit the rights of israeli arabs violates the most basic principles of our foreign policy. what is the commission's and the council's view on this?
president-in-office of the council. mr president, this debate has shown how complex and difficult the choices are that the council and the commission had to take. i repeat – and i stand by this – that there was no choice. i think – and i thank all those who have supported this position – that the european union is a community of values which stands by principles and cannot deviate from those principles. this is something that is shared unanimously in the council, and i am sure this position will also prevail in the future – it must prevail. at the same time many speakers have insisted that we should not forget the palestinian people, and we do not. mr kasoulides, mr brok and others have said that we should make it very clear to the palestinian people that it is the european union that is helping them. of course, there is a risk and a danger that the palestinians will turn to other sources. we must make it clear to them that we are willing to help them. they must understand that there is not only the willingness but the wish and the desire of the european union to help them. but there must be an understanding that we cannot deviate from principles. what mr watson said about hoping that things that are said when a party is in opposition will change once they are in government is very much the hope of the european union. indeed, it will probably take time, but the union must make it very clear and must work towards that end. that is what we are doing. many speakers have referred to the need for even-handedness. i would like to make it very clear that the council in its resolution and in its conclusions over the years, and especially in the past month, has never left a doubt that we demand from israel the same compliance with international obligations that we ask from the hamas government. i would like to quote two sentences from the last council conclusions to this effect: ‘the council called on israel to desist from any action, such as settlement activities and the construction of the separation barrier on palestinian land, that is contrary to international law and threatens the viability of an agreed two-state solution. the council urged israel to take steps to improve the humanitarian and economic situation of the palestinians including by resuming transfers of the withheld palestinian tax and customs revenues’. this is very clear language and we are using the same kind of urgent tone with israel when it comes to compliance with international law. we will certainly continue to do so. the middle east quartet will meet at foreign minister level on 9 may, and of course president abbas’s recent appeal to hold an international peace conference will be a subject at that meeting. i cannot of course prejudge what the decision will be, but this is certainly going to be a subject which will be discussed. mr kasoulides, i agree with you we are at a crossroads: we must make the right decisions; we must help the palestinian people, but at the same time we must stick with our principles. this must be the continued basis for our policy, it certainly will be the basis for the policy of the council.
member of the commission. mr president, it has been said various times that this is certainly one of the most difficult challenges we have at this moment in foreign policy. i thank the majority of members that have given us support in this very difficult situation. why do we not just give funds to the hamas-led government? we have been very clear on that. there are certain principles that even every democratic government also has to maintain. that is absolutely clear for every democratically elected government, it should be clear and we have clearly outlined it. i would like to repeat that we have not stopped aid to the palestinian people, as some have said. on the contrary, we have accelerated our aid by already giving more than eur 100 million at the very beginning of this year. at the same time last year, we had not even given one fifth of that, as i mentioned very clearly. it is just a matter of listening to what we are saying. it is true that we have to make this aid very visible to the palestinian people. they have to know we have not let them down, but at the same time it is very clear that we cannot give direct aid to a government that is not responding to this very clear demand on the principles. however, regarding the second question, it is also true that we will indeed also want to support mahmoud abbas in a very cautious way because we do not want to undermine his position. however, at the same time we want to find ways and means of providing an opportunity for the help to go on, and that is why i also mentioned that we need an international supervisory mechanism to ensure that any financial contribution really goes to the right places. we are already working with the united nations, the imf, the world bank and other big donors in order to see how we can set up such a mechanism. of course we have to do it rather quickly, and this also goes for health, education and other issues. are we applying double standards? as our council presidency said, we are applying the same criteria that we have applied. we have always mentioned very clearly to the israelis that they too have quite a number of obligations. in addition, in september 2005, for instance, the quartet expressed very clearly its concern that settlement expansion must stop and israel must remove unauthorised outposts. it also pointed out that we continue to note with concern the route of the israeli separation barrier, particularly as it results in the confiscation of palestinian land, cuts off the movement of people and goods and thus also undermines palestinian trust in the roadmap. i think we could have not been clearer, but what we want to see now is the new israeli government engaging with the palestinian authority. here, president mahmoud abbas has shown his readiness. for the time being we cannot do anything else but clearly follow this line. i hope that also, from the side of the hamas-led government, they understand our messages. we will want to give them a little bit more time, but they should now also be more flexible in their positions, because then there is also a chance to work with a government that wants peace by peaceful means.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 142) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the next item is the report by mr josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a strengthened partnership between the european union and latin america (a6-0047/2006) - (2005/2241 (ini)).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the truth is that we have not had a communication with a strategic vision and a projection of the future such as that presented to us by mrs ferrero-waldner for many years, and which is in line with what this parliament has been calling for since november 2001 on the eve of the madrid summit. secondly, i would like to express my gratitude to the presidency of the council, and in particular to mr winkler - who is not listening to me, because he is in a lively conversation with mr voggenhuber - for the generosity shown at the meeting in bregenz yesterday and the day before yesterday, in allowing the european parliament to address the heads of state and government, recognising the role of the european parliament as a catalyst in the strengthening of relations between the european union and latin america. and thirdly, to the members of the foreign affairs and development committees, because they unanimously adopted this report in a very unusual vote - 51 votes in favour, 0 against and 0 abstentions, and no amendments to the plenary on behalf of the political groups - which clearly shows a will of the whole parliament to be behind the report which will be put to the vote tomorrow. and not just because it is a report, madam commissioner, which is not ambitious: everyone knows that this parliament has distinguished itself, as i said before, by being one of the great dynamizers of the relationship and by saying that the decisive element that will make these relations move forward in the coming years is, above all and fundamentally, the political will and a clear commitment to it. we have therefore made very clear proposals: we call for the constitution of a euro-latin american assembly which can give democratic legitimacy to parliaments as the promoters and legitimators of this relationship, and we would like, mr president-in-office of the council, that in the conclusions of the vienna summit not only the will of the parliaments be taken into account, but also that the constitution of this euro-latin american assembly be recommended, as was done in the past with the euro-mediterranean assembly. we also call for a renewal and updating of the ministerial political dialogue and recommend the adoption of a renewed bi-regional political agenda, to include new issues: threats to governance, the fight against terrorism and organized crime, the preservation of the environment and natural resources, the reconciliation of the positions of the member states of the european union with those of latin america at the united nations, and many other issues that have to be reflected in initiatives such as the signing of a euro-latin american charter for peace and security. but, mr president, political dialogue and political will will eventually dry up and be reduced to nothing if they are not accompanied by actions which enable us to move from words to deeds, and this is where summits - there are too many summits - fail and are much criticised. and one area where we can clearly move from words to deeds is that of association agreements, with their commercial aspect. it is clear that we must make progress on the mercosur agreement, which unfortunately has not been made before, but not for reasons attributable to the will of the european union: we should set out in vienna a realistic timetable for concluding that agreement. i have to say quite frankly, madam commissioner, that from the european parliament's point of view the time for political dialogue and cooperation agreements with the andean and central american communities is long past, and we recommend that the decision be taken in vienna to move on to the phase of association agreements. i know that at the moment, with venezuela's decision to leave the andean community, there may be some uncertainty, but now more than ever, the european union needs to send a clear and well-defined message in this direction, so as not to give the right to those who are betting against the integration processes. i would like to end, mr president, quickly, so as not to waste time, by mentioning two initiatives: the european investment bank facility, which we would like to have named after the commissioner, because of her tenacity, for having favoured a completely innovative social cohesion fund in the history of the european union; and an initiative which we do not want to see go to waste: the biregional solidarity fund, a fund which will not cost the union any money, because we are not asking for additional aid, a fund which is supported by the european parliament, by the latin american partners. although we are not asking for a 200% commitment to this fund, we are asking at least for it to be studied and for it to be taken into account in the conclusions of the minutes. mr president, the european union cannot be looking over its shoulder in a policy of self-contemplation like the myth of narcissus: it must send a clear and well-defined message at the vienna summit of our commitment to a region that expects a great deal from us. we also expect the commissioner's commitment and the commitment of the council presidency in office, so that, with the efforts of all, this vienna summit will be a success.
the president of the council. the commission has already done so. i would like to begin by thanking mr salafranca sánchez-neyra very warmly for his excellent report and for his kind words to the council. i am very sorry that i do not speak spanish well enough to give a speech in spanish, but thanks to the hard training i have received as an assistant to the present commissioner, i understand spanish well enough to understand what you said to me. thank you for that. in fact, my participation in the recent meeting in dornbirn, austria, was also a sign that the presidency of the council is very much interested in closer cooperation between parliaments. of course, the european parliament will be represented at the fourth summit in vienna on 12 may, as will the regional and subregional parliaments of latin america. this is a very important aspect of cooperation between the regions and we, as the council, naturally welcome it. we must be aware that this summit offers a unique opportunity to achieve a strengthening of cooperation, and i can say with some pride that the austrian federal government has voluntarily decided to hold this summit, also as a sign that it is important to us that this eu-latin america and caribbean summit can take place outside the americo-iberian area for the first time. i myself attended the first summit in rio de janeiro in 1999 as a member of the staff of the present commissioner. if we compare: we have come a long way since 1999. we can be proud of that. i would also like to thank parliament in particular and, of course, the commission for its contribution to this successful process. the council agrees fully with the european parliament and the commission on the main objectives and levels of action of the partnership between latin america and the european union. this is also very clearly reflected in the conclusions adopted by the council at the end of february. in this context, the council reaffirmed its determination to further strengthen this alliance in the interests of both regions. it is in our interest to strengthen this cooperation in order to promote our common values and interests and to make a joint contribution to peace and security, to the protection of human rights and to the strengthening of civic participation and democracy. social cohesion, sustainable development, protection and enhancement of the environment on a global basis within the framework of the united nations are topics where we have traditionally worked well with our latin american partners. i would like to emphasize here the good cooperation between most of the countries of latin america and the european union on the reform of the united nations, particularly in recent months. we are also very grateful for the great support of latin american countries in the decision to establish a human rights council. at the third eu-latin america summit in guadalajara in 2004, we made very ambitious commitments. in particular, both partners will seek to adopt fiscal and economic policies that allow for a better distribution of wealth and appropriate social policies. the european union will continue to support these efforts to strengthen democratic institutions, good governance and the rule of law, and to combat drugs and organised crime, including trafficking in human beings. there's been a very impressive list of activities since guadalajara. we, as the presidency of the council, have taken the liberty of handing parliament a copy of this list for distribution to the members of the european parliament and, of course, to the commission, because we believe that this is a very substantial demonstration of what we have achieved in these two years. the european union is seeking a targeted political dialogue with the region as a whole and with the various integration fora, but also with individual countries, and mr salafranca sánchez-neyra was pleased to mention the various negotiations that have begun, that are about to begin and that we naturally want to continue. it is hoped that one of the main outcomes of the summit will be the start of negotiations with central america. we are indeed a little concerned about the question of how the andean community will develop. the recent withdrawal of venezuela has raised questions which need to be clarified and answered politically and legally. i had a meeting with the foreign minister of peru just a few weeks ago where we were able to discuss this question. i can assure all members of parliament and you, mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, that we are very keen to continue this process. the conditions for this would of course have to be met. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. these are the areas where i believe we can work together more closely. the preparations for the summit to be held in vienna on 12 may have started and are progressing well. very important negotiations were held and concluded at the level of senior officials. on the whole, we can be optimistic - thanks also to the help of the european parliament and the report which is now before us - that we will have a substantial, good and politically successful summit in vienna.
member of the commission. frau präsidentin, lieber ratspräsident, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to meet you again today on the occasion of the adoption of the european parliament's report on the strengthening of the partnership between the european union and latin america. i would particularly like to welcome this excellent initiative and congratulate mr salafranca in particular on the high quality of this report. as you know, this report is parliament's response to the proposals made by the commission in its communication of 8 december. i would like to express my gratitude for the political support you have given us and for the way in which cooperation between our two institutions has been strengthened. i believe that we are in an extremely favourable situation for the european community to establish a partnership with latin america. on the one hand, the council welcomed our communication and adopted conclusions on it at the end of february. the current presidency also considers the success of the fourth european union-latin america/caribbean summit, to be held in vienna on 12 may, to be one of the priorities of its work programme. the three institutions thus provide the commission with the political support it needs to move forward. and this is, i hope, a great step forward. but this is not enough to make this summit a success. as the english say, "it takes two to tango". if europe is ready to commit more to and with latin america, it also expects a strong commitment from latin america. i therefore believe that the vienna summit is also a test to assess the will and determination of the latin american countries and i hope that it will translate into concrete progress. i would like to say that i very much appreciate the convergence of views between our two institutions, because we are all convinced that indeed strengthening is timely, important and necessary for the following reasons: firstly, latin america is one of the few regions in the world that can be considered a natural ally of the european union, especially because of the common values. secondly, there are many challenges that can be tackled more effectively through a reformed partnership and one of these is the lack of social cohesion, which affects both europe and latin america. i think it is very important that we make further progress in this area and i hope that there will be real results. thirdly, i hope that today's debate on latin america will be a positive signal to our partners, a guarantee that europe maintains a strong interest in its region. we need strong, solid and reliable partners in latin america. let me now turn to the next unfinished business, which is the vienna summit. this summit takes place in a context of important challenges and exchanges, and also changes, in latin america and the caribbean. most of the countries in the region have adopted democratic systems, have embarked on ambitious economic and social reforms and have great potential for development, but unfortunately there are still great social weaknesses, mainly due to the fact that economic progress has not reached the majority of the population and this is actually leading, or has led, to disillusionment with some democratic governments, because of their inability to comply with the terms of the social pact. much attention has been paid to the emergence of new political movements in latin america, which some see as a direct threat to traditional political, economic and social structures. these phenomena need not be viewed in negative terms, but rather in the context of a development towards a more equitable society. i think it goes without saying that it is important that this transition is carried out through existing and reliable democratic institutions. and i think the vienna summit is a great opportunity to achieve this visibility and to have this dialogue about social cohesion, but also about regional integration and multilateralism. it is against this background that the bregenz meeting took place and i am very glad that it was really successful. we must now move forward with the establishment of a network of association agreements between the european union and the countries and regions of latin america. i would therefore recommend that the member states first negotiate with central america. this decision still depends on a clear demonstration by the central american countries of progress in their own integration strategy, but i am very optimistic, and i believe that these decisions will be formalised at the meeting of the central american heads of state and government to be held from 5 to 7 may. as far as the andean community is concerned, as we know, the situation is unfortunately more complex, after venezuela left the community a few days ago. i have personally spoken to president morales and we still hope that the internal meetings within the can will open the way to progress. as regards mercosur, i am aware that the situation is much more difficult, but i still hope that vienna will at least give a strong political impetus to progress in the negotiations which are taking place in parallel with the doha negotiations. we intend to consolidate all our cooperation in economic and development activities through assistance programmes and we would like to have very substantial and significant support from the european investment bank, which would be 4 billion euros. we also hope that vienna will be the occasion to announce the creation of a transatlantic parliamentary assembly between the european union and latin america. i think it will be very important and will also allow people to come closer together in the future. finally, madam president, it is the responsibility of all of us to ensure that the partnership between the european union, latin america and the caribbean is stronger, more effective and has a long-term future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, dear benita, dear hans, colleagues, i am speaking as the socialist coordinator in the committee on development, but also as the rapporteur responsible for the committee's opinion on the partnership between the european union and latin america. we wanted to stress that, while these relations certainly have an important political dimension - which mr salafranca has well presented - they must also be understood and developed within the perspective of development cooperation and in the light of the strategic objectives and commitments which parliament, the council and the commission set themselves a few months ago in the tripartite declaration known as the european development strategy. we are therefore pleased that the resolution we are voting on reflects our proposal that the priority of eradicating poverty in latin america and of contributing to the achievement of the millennium development goals in latin america should be a major priority in euro-latin american relations. we also find it important that the efforts of some latin american countries, such as cuba, venezuela and chile, to achieve these objectives among their populations are recognized, and, what is even more admirable, that they are helping other countries in their neighbourhood to achieve these objectives in their societies.
i would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with the cuban dissident marta beatriz roque, a descendant of european citizens from the canary islands, who was physically assaulted this morning by thugs of the castro dictatorship as she tried to leave her home in havana. commissioner, i am pleased that the group of the european people's party has received your communication on a strengthened partnership between the european union and latin america. for the first time in years, mrs ferrero-waldner, the commission and parliament are using the same language when talking about latin america. my colleague salafranca has presented an ambitious report which i shall not repeat. i should like to point out, madam commissioner, that when i defend your proposal in vienna at the forthcoming fourth euro-latin american and caribbean summit, i shall have the support of the majority, if not the unanimous support, of the whole of the european parliament. the times are not good for a proposal like this, but many of us are convinced that we are facing a unique opportunity to move in the right direction. the rapporteur said that we have been making declarations of good intentions for latin america for many years, which is going through difficult times both in its internal dynamics and in its relations with the rest of the world. many of their problems must be solved by themselves, such as the present crisis in the andean community, but we cannot fail to send a clear signal of support. the summit should give a mandate to start and, if necessary, deepen negotiations for an association agreement with the andean community, central america and mercosur. this is a minimum requirement below which there is only vacuum. if the union does not take some clear and unequivocal steps to deepen our relations with latin america and its subregional integration institutions, we may not have an opportunity like this for many years.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, on the eve of the vienna summit, the salafranca report once again allows us to speak of the present situation of two sister regions, which are therefore also clearly united. and it is a really good time to do so, because, as has been said, the latin american region is experiencing changes that, for me, are certainly hopeful: they show that, on some occasions, even those who have traditionally been groups without a voice and almost directly without rights, are now taking back, democratically, that voice and those rights, and that seems to me to be welcomed by any media. the rapporteur knows that we are not in complete agreement on the strategy and objectives set out in the report: there are some differences, which i understand to be normal in a situation of this kind, but there are also some points which allow us to be optimistic and positive. i therefore believe that we must take a reasonably positive view of this report in this respect. but i would like to point out at least three aspects. firstly, the great problem we see - and we continue to insist on it and must insist on it - lies in the very definition of a free trade area, and we must put it this way. we would feel much more comfortable if we were talking about a global interregional association area, especially because this is an aspect which is not seen by the region in a consensual way, in a unanimous way, as a positive aspect as it appears to be. secondly, i would like to take advantage of the presence of two austrians - an austrian commissioner and, of course, an austrian representing the council presidency - to recall that the subject of femicide, which has been discussed in this house on a number of occasions and in a significant way, must be given a prominent place at the next vienna summit. i think that the fight against the murder of women is a fundamental issue which should not be neglected in any case. and thirdly, it is also important to remember the fight against impunity, especially to remember that many of the things that are being done in latin america can only have a good result if impunity is also fought against in parallel.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, my group did indeed join the consensus, although we made it clear that we had strong reservations about paragraphs 6, 21 and 66 in relation to the definition of the euro-latin american free trade area. i would ask mr salafranca to make a further effort, because after this report we have indeed had the meeting in bregenz - the third parliamentary meeting, very important - of more than 90 members from latin america, the caribbean and europe. the bregenz declaration has given a lot of nuance to this concept. i would say that the concept of a euro-latin american zone is practically not mentioned in the declaration, mainly at the request of the latin american and caribbean members of parliament. if that is so, i would like my group to be able to continue to be part of that consensus tomorrow, but with a different, nuanced wording, because the bregenz meeting has taken place and what we have to do is to listen to what our colleagues, to whom this fundamental, important and strategic proposal is addressed, have said. and if that is so, i think it is up to us as members of the european parliament to raise this point of convergence in the bregenz declaration. i think that there is a great deal of agreement, for example, on what it means to support this strategic bi-regional relationship, on what it means to support the european union-latin america parliamentary assembly, on regional integration and on the bi-regional solidarity fund, which, incidentally, was also mentioned in the bregenz declaration, and as far as mrs ferrero-waldner is concerned, because there was no mention that latin america and the caribbean can participate with proposals, because otherwise we are not talking about a bi-regional fund, but a european fund which will grant aid to latin america and the caribbean on a discretionary basis. i therefore ask - and i know that we are very short on time - for a final effort from mr salafranca to ensure that paragraphs 6, 21 and 66, which refer to the euro-latin american free trade area, are drafted in accordance with the declaration of bregenz.
madam president, to cut short my speech, i would like to congratulate mr salafranca, mrs ferrero-waldner and mr winkler on behalf of the council on this meeting of the three institutions, as they have also said very brilliantly. i believe that the key to the arc of relations between europe and latin america - and we must not lose sight of this overall vision - is the complementarity of two regions that share values, ideals, history, culture, traditions and that represent more than 50 countries and more than a billion inhabitants. together they can be much more than the sum of each other and they can face the problems of globalization, the challenges of globalization, much more successfully. if that is taken into account, the vienna summit can be a success. that is the direction we must take. one last thing, mrs ferrero-waldner, let us not abandon the andean countries because one of them has left them in the ditch: we cannot reward those who boycott the community itself, but those who want to maintain, like colombia, peru, ecuador and who knows if bolivia, an agreement with the european union.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, in dornbirn - which is only a few kilometres from bregenz - the dornbirner declaration said something which i think is very important. it was said: 'the summit between latin america and the caribbean and the european union will not only take place on 12 may.' the summit is a process, and it involves both the meeting of dornbirns and events around the summit. it seems to me particularly important to point out - i did this in dornbirn - that there will be a meeting of the important business leaders of the two regions on the sidelines of the summit, because it is the entrepreneurs who can help to increase prosperity in latin america as well. i would also like to say to mr pflüger that a wide-ranging meeting of civil society from both regions is taking place, which we very much welcome. this is also important, because the european union is concerned with promoting civil society, especially in latin america, and the alternative summit you mentioned is certainly an event that will be very interesting, and i hope that it will be a good and peaceful one. mr romeva i rueda and mrs belohorská have raised a subject which is of particular importance to the austrian president of the council, ursula plassnik, too: the question of violence against women and the question of trafficking in human beings, in particular trafficking in women and girls. this is a subject which is of great importance for the austrian presidency as a whole and which will of course also be discussed at the vienna summit. the european union is not going to give up on the andean community. she certainly doesn't! we are following developments very closely, but we are naturally interested in the subregional associations and organizations in latin america remaining strong, because they are potential partners of ours. and we hope that the withdrawal of the venezuelan presidency, which has not yet been formally concluded and has not yet been confirmed by any council of ministers, may not have to take place after all and that we, as the european union, can begin negotiations with the andean community. the commissioner said that both sides must make commitments. we, the european union, are ready to make these commitments. of course, our latin american partners must also be prepared to make commitments.
member of the commission. i have to say, madam president, after the vienna summit, i would like to say a few words in german: i am pleased to see the very broad agreement between the three institutions of the european union on the latin american summit and the latin american question. we've all worked hard on this. there have been very good preparatory meetings, such as the ministerial meeting on social cohesion in brussels, the meeting on migration and drugs in cartagena, a civil society meeting in vienna, a business meeting which will take place in the future and, of course, the parliamentary meeting in dornbirn. that means we have a broad base like we hardly ever had before, and that's very important. nevertheless, important work remains to be done in the last two weeks, which will hopefully lead us in the direction of the andean community also being able to start this association agreement with us. i know that the austrian presidency is working very hard on this. but a summit is always judged by who is present. so far, as far as i know, we have 18 commitments from latin american heads of state and government. i think it is very important that the great interest that has been shown should be put into practice. we will build on that, because that should be the cooperation for the next seven years. i would also like to say that, of course, apart from the issues we have discussed today, the issue of human rights, the strengthening of institutions, and violence against women in ciudad juárez will also be discussed. i myself have recently been in mexico and i have personally discussed this matter with the attorney general and i know that he is really trying to do this. the commissioner responsible for women's issues was recently present in both parliament and the commission and we had a very intensive dialogue on this. overall, i think a really broad spectrum is covered. now we just have to get together and actually do all the things that make the summit a real success.
the rapporteur. thank you, madam president. i would like to make a very brief comment and two procedural questions which i understand can facilitate the vote on this report in the plenary session tomorrow. the comment is that the president-in-office does not need to apologize for his spanish, which i understand to be excellent, as excellent is his willingness to make his contribution to this harmonious tandem, commission, council and parliament, as he demonstrated by his presence in breguens. and the two comments, madam president, concern the initiative put forward by mr romagnoli to table an amendment on the land reform. i regret that mr romagnoli did not table this amendment within the time limit laid down in the rules of procedure, but if the other members support him i shall have no objection to accepting an oral amendment in the house tomorrow. as regards the remark made by mr meyer, i would say to mr meyer that it is the report of this parliament which inspires the bregenz declaration and not the bregenz declaration which inspires the report of this parliament. and you know perfectly well that if i offered to make a concession in the negotiation of the final act, it was in the spirit of consensus and not because i did not have a large majority to back the positions we have adopted. what i do want to say to you, mr meyer, in all friendliness and frankness, is that when i commit my vote and my word on behalf of myself or my political group, i do so with all the consequences and, even if i had never asked you to do so, i would nevertheless offer to change the reference to the euro-latin american free trade area to the reference requested by mr romeva, who is not presently in the chamber, and to replace it with a global interregional association area, in the three paragraphs referred to, namely paragraphs 6, 21 and 66. that was the comment i wanted to make, madam president, in the interests of consensus, and i believe that we can give a comprehensive answer tomorrow on behalf of this parliament, so that we can all work together, especially thanks to the efforts of the commission and the presidency of the council, to make this summit a success.
mr president, i think that the council representative, mr winkler, has given a very good answer to the situation we are in today: we have not yet been able to adopt the constitution and, moreover, if we were to open a debate at this moment on the privileges and immunities of european parliamentarians, we would probably find that the majority of european public opinion would not be prepared to guarantee the members of this parliament the immunities and privileges we have today. because at the moment, as a member of parliament - i say it sincerely - i would prefer to have no privileges or immunities: i would prefer to be treated like any other citizen of the european union. and i say this also because in the past, particularly in the last parliament, this parliament abused its privileges and immunities to cover up some kind of criminal activity. i think there are two possibilities at this point. if the judiciary in each of the member states is independent and partial, that is the best guarantee we can have; there are already some countries which do not recognize any privileges, there are at least two or three which do not. i think that, probably, if we now open the debate on the statute, what this parliament should propose is, simply and simply, the abolition, with regard to members of parliament, of any kind of privilege or immunity which does not extend to all citizens. if citizens have to surrender to justice and trust it, i do not see why members of the european parliament should be given preferential treatment. in any case, i agree with what mr winkler has said, who has given the legal point of view and he is right: it is not the time to open a debate and an intergovernmental conference on the subject and, if we opened it, we should in this parliament reconsider what the situation is from the point of view of our relations with the citizens.
mr president, i must begin by protesting the late hour of the debate and thanking our secretary-general, julian priestley, for being here. but it is very important that we assure the citizens that the money is well spent. why is this debate taking place at night? does anyone want to protect the strasbourg village? i do not want to hear the answer now; i only ask that, six months from now, when this debate is held again, if we do delay the approval of the accounts, the debate be held in prime time, when the newspapers have not yet closed their editions, as is the case. the debate on such an important issue is overshadowed by the problem we have with the town of strasbourg, which benefits greatly from the presence of the european parliament in its city for 12 weeks a year. paris protects it, that's why it has moved the national school of management from paris to strasbourg. why would you do that? he wants to revitalize strasbourg; there is an interest we understand. the house of strasbourg, as my colleague mr stubb has said, has published a note. if the note is intended to explain the difference between the money paid by parliament and what the owners of the building receive, it should say, as margaret thatcher said, 'my money back'. fortunately, we know who has the overpaid money and where it is, and fortunately it is in a solvent situation. if, after the investigation into this incomprehensible lapse, it is concluded that the city of strasbourg must return the money, i am sure that it will do so and that the french authorities will do so. this debate is very important. i remember when mrs cresson, the former socialist prime minister of france, refused to admit in this chamber that she had misused part of the money under her responsibility. the courts have finally forced mrs cresson to take her own responsibility, which at that time had to be assumed collectively by the whole commission. i hope this doesn't go that far. i am sure that the city of strasbourg will do its best to return the money, if indeed its only arguments are those set out in this unflattering press release which it has sent us.
i would like to join the general chorus of concern and surprise at the situation we find ourselves in today on the eve of voting on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004, which we were actually preparing and which the committee on budgetary control had prepared with all the necessary attention and information. on the eve of this debate, we were confronted with a piece of information that appeared in the press: i can say that in spain, sometimes things appear in the press that are not 100% real or that have been manipulated; therefore, since the committee on budgetary control, the legal service - and i think it was right at the time - advised us not to vote, since the report was no longer ours, but belonged to the plenary, because once we had voted on mr ferber's report it belonged to the plenary, i would ask colleagues and mr ferber in particular - although i do not see him in the chamber at the moment - not to make us vote tomorrow against the approval, with a meaning that is not the real meaning of approval. i would ask mr ferber to avoid a vote which could be ambiguous, misinterpreted, manipulated once again in the press. i would ask you to suspend the possibility of returning your report to the committee on budgetary control before the vote, which has not been able to deal with it today, precisely because the house could decide on it; i would ask you to ask the house to return it to us before we get a negative vote, which means something different: we vote no to something without having clarified why we voted no. i would therefore prefer, if possible, mr president, that the services of the house and my colleagues could ensure that possibility; that before voting no which can really be interpreted as a poorly prepared 'no', since this information arrived yesterday, we could avoid it by returning this report to the committee on budgetary control, which would do its job again.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in a changing market, innovation is of critical importance. the challenges of globalisation require us to obtain new competitive advantages that prevent downward competition and close the gap between the european union and the more advanced economies. without innovation, the lisbon strategy's objectives of sustainable jobs and growth will be impossible to achieve. innovation is about moving from speculation to change, making knowledge and technology apply to improve businesses and seize entrepreneurial opportunities in a pluralistic society. although it springs from personal talent and creativity, innovation is not a spontaneous fruit but is driven by numerous social factors. a broad approach to innovation, beyond purely technological, is therefore needed. the increase in european resources for innovation, which are currently low compared to the united states and japan, may be compatible with a stricter use of public aid. the first is a question of resources and priorities, the second is a question of approach and justification. public aid for innovation is a legitimate instrument of public policy action when it is necessary to remove barriers caused by market failures, including internationally relevant asymmetries. its design must be rigorous, its implementation transparent and non-discriminatory, and its overall effect pro-competitive and measurable. in these circumstances, aid is the best option. the opportunities, advantages and benefits of innovation should be open to all and inclusive. smes and start-ups deserve special attention as they have the most difficulty accessing and promoting innovation. boosting innovation is necessary to achieve convergence of the less-favoured regions and cross-border cooperation. regional aid and innovation aid must be complementary; their incentives need to be articulated to avoid distortive effects. i thank the rapporteur for her report, which has enabled us to make progress on these issues, and i hope that we can still reach new consensus in the house.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work, which has been really excellent, and congratulate her and the coordinators who have been alternate rapporteurs for the main groups. i shall not dwell on the arguments which have been put forward here, and with which i fully agree. it is clear that we need more innovation in europe; it is very clear that smes are the protagonists; it is even clearer that we are committed to free competition; it is also very clear that state aid is an exceptional instrument. but - and this is what i would like to add - state aid is also effective; it is effective on many occasions, in creating jobs, in creating welfare conditions for many european citizens. and in this sense, i think that when we are talking about precisely who are the potential beneficiaries of these state aids, we have to turn to the less favoured regions; we have to turn to those which, because of insufficient financial prospects, will have less european aid for their development. and in this respect i would also like to stress to the commissioner that innovation must not be an excuse for cutting aid to those who have every right, as europeans, to share in the benefit of economic growth, because that is how we make europe, by granting aid which really promotes the territorial cohesion of europe and the equality of opportunity for all europeans.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i too would like to congratulate mr titley on his excellent report on a subject as fundamental as road safety, which in this case also links innovation and the future with safety and the reduction of road deaths, which is one of the most devastating epidemics of our century. i am also pleased that some time is being devoted to road safety in this house again, and at this time of the morning - at last, not at night, and early in the morning. as mr titley has rightly said, we must help the drivers and passengers of vehicles. in my country we have just had a devastating holy week of holidays, departures and returns, in which we believed that the downward trend in mortality, which had already begun a couple of years ago, with a special fight against road accidents, was going to continue. it has not been so, and it has therefore been shown that it is necessary to continue to insist and to continue to make progress in mechanisms which help to improve the problems of the human factor, because it has been shown that the main causes of mortality - a figure which we have not been able to reduce, although the number of accidents is greatly reduced, but not the number of victims, and of fatalities - are essentially the neglect - that is, the human factor - and also the delay in the arrival of the emergency services. the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of smart cars. i therefore welcome and congratulate the commissioner on her tenacity and enthusiasm in maintaining the esafety programme and for continuing to advance the intelligence programmes for road safety. i also think that this support, which is necessary for vehicles, their passengers and drivers, should not be limited to ordinary vehicles - high-end vehicles, in the first place, which are the ones that are likely to benefit from this new improvement - but should be extended to agricultural, forestry, public works or emergency vehicles, to those vehicles whose drivers and passengers are workers who normally use these vehicles to go to remote places, in risky and complex situations, and who are not usually the first vehicles to be equipped with this type of innovation. that is why we have also asked for a study to be carried out as soon as possible on the coverage of these vehicles and, above all, of their drivers and passengers, who are of such interest to us. as regards price, i am absolutely in favour of moving towards an incentive system, via insurance or other incentives which have already been put in place in some other countries for fleet renewal, etc. i would remind you that other road safety elements which today seem to us to be standardised, popularised and accepted, such as seat belts and airbags, have also been advanced very rapidly. i therefore encourage ecall to follow this path.
member of the commission. mr president, i am very grateful for this report and i congratulate the rapporteur mr mavrommatis on his contribution and thank him for his comments and especially for the work and spirit which is embodied in this report. i am sure that diversity and unity is the best basis for our enlarged european union in this 21st century and this diversity is strongly represented and built up further by multilingualism. i have just come from the first conference within the eu on minority and regional languages at the centre borschette. we believe that it is this diversity that makes europe and in terms of culture and languages it should be protected and promoted. a new framework strategy for multilingualism adopted in november 2005 is a first multilingualism policy. the european indicator of language competence is a very important instrument for making real progress in the area of multilingualism, which means language teaching, language learning and communication between different language communities in europe. mr mavrommatis called on the commission to encourage early language learning. we are currently funding a study of best practice in early language learning and the communication invites member states to review their arrangements for early language learning in the light of best practice across europe. as you rightly pointed out, it is a member state competence, so that is why we need the member states to be even more active. i also note the emphasis on awareness raising through initiatives such as the european day of languages or the european language label. we strongly support this type of grassroots activity. further steps ahead of us are, for example, the creation of a high-level working group on multilingualism to develop new ideas and initiatives in this area. this high-level group will start work before this summer. on the basis of member states’ reports in response to the commission’s november communication and on the basis of the advice of this high-level group, i will present a further communication to parliament and to the council proposing a comprehensive approach to multilingualism in the european union next year. we also plan to hold a ministerial conference on multilingualism next year in order to share the progress member states have made and to plan future work. the indicator of language competence is a highly valuable contribution in this area. since there is no existing standardised survey of language skills across the union, it is necessary to collect accurate and up-to-date data on the effectiveness of foreign language teaching. this indicator will show us a general level of foreign language knowledge. with such an instrument we will be able to improve more significantly the teaching and learning of foreign languages and, of course, increase the mobility of students and workers in our union. in conclusion, i want to repeat my gratitude to the rapporteur and also to the committee on culture and education and its chairman mr sifunakis for their very valuable and continuous support for our programmes and policies. this report on multilingualism clearly demonstrates how parliament can help the commission and council in our common commitment to promote diversity.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate mr mavrommatis on his report and also the commission for implementing a decision taken by the barcelona european council in 2002. i am convinced that a decisive element for the success of the process of european integration and also for the promotion of european citizenship is the knowledge by citizens of different european languages, in addition to their mother tongue, which is also positive for improving mobility within the union. given that at present there are no data on the actual language and communication skills of citizens of the union, but aware that situations vary widely between member states, i believe that the european indicator of language proficiency can be a good instrument to encourage the improvement and convergence of foreign language teaching policies by the member states. this system, in addition to contributing to the improvement of communication and mutual understanding between european citizens, will also improve the quality of foreign language teaching in european education and training systems, and contribute to the achievement of the lisbon objectives. the indicator will stimulate the exchange and knowledge of good practice in the different member states and will constitute a reliable system, which will allow measuring the progress, initially, of the five languages most taught in the union: english, french, german, spanish and italian. the choice of these five languages in a first phase should not be to the detriment of the other european languages, but should be at the beginning of a process, without, of course, ruling out the possibility of including other languages in later phases. in particular, thanks to the introduction of some amendments which we have worked on together with the rapporteur, the report leaves the door open to a future evaluation of a greater number of official european languages, without prejudice to the teaching of the other languages not evaluated by the indicator. before concluding, i would like to make it clear that although this report is not the appropriate forum to deal with the situation of minority languages or other non-european languages, but aims to improve the linguistic skills of citizens, the quality of education systems and the learning of the official european languages, it should not imply any discrimination towards the recognition and protection of those languages which are not official in the union but are within a member state. and finally, i would like to say that i am pleased with the text because it represents an important step forward towards a closer union between european citizens, and it is also very good news for the improvement of training within the union.
the rapporteur. mr president, i simply want to say that in the debate we had yesterday on the report, a representative of a political group proposed that in paragraphs 6, 21 and 66 the expression 'free trade area for 2010' should be replaced by 'global interregional partnership area for the medium term'. this proposal has also been included in the form of an oral amendment which mr lipietz wishes to table. mr president, if the house has no objection, i have no objection to accepting this proposal and therefore i think that the calls for separate votes made by some groups, such as the green group and the united left group, are meaningless if the house approves this expression, which i share. and i would like to refer to one last point, mr president, which is a technical adjustment. in paragraph 77 the committee on foreign affairs adopted an amendment by mr fatuzzo on pensions. i am simply proposing that we take the part of mr fatuzzo's amendment which i am now going to read and move it to paragraph 35, where it is more appropriately placed. the end of paragraph 35 would therefore be added 'to enable social security to be provided by more efficient systems, with secure and higher pensions'. in these terms, therefore, mr president, i am changing the expression 'euro-latin american free trade area by 2010' in paragraphs 6, 21 and 66 to 'global interregional partnership in the medium term' and am amending paragraph 35 to read 'amendment by mr fatuzzo'.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 27 april 2006.
ladies and gentlemen, i regret to inform you of the sad news of the disappearance of our colleague, professor rolandas pavilionis. mr pavilionis was a fervent defender of human rights, actively fighting for lithuania's independence and later for its accession to the union, before being elected as an mep. before joining the european union, professor pavilionis had been involved in the work of the convention on the future of europe. he has been very active in the fields of education, science and culture, and i would like to highlight his position as rector of vilnius university. we will all remember him for his work in our parliament, as a member of the committee on culture and education. he was vice-chairman of his group, the union for a europe of nations, in which his intellectual qualities earned him the great esteem of all its members. in announcing his death, i would also like to inform you that tomorrow a book of condolences will be placed in front of the house, open for signature by all his colleagues and by anyone who wishes to express their last thoughts to him. i now ask that we observe a minute's silence in his memory. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
i call mr hans-peter martin to speak on a point of order. if you would be so kind as to tell me the rule to which your point of order refers.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 11 may 2006. the following amendments have been proposed:tuesday:in accordance with rule 168, the confederal group of the european united left has asked for the report by mr speroni on the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr pflüge to be referred back to committee, and the vote is scheduled for tomorrow.
mr cohn-bendit, i am taking the microphone off you because i did not give you the floor. (the member objects: "i would like to speak for") please sit down, please, and wait. i gave the floor to mr schulz in the course of the debate. el señor schulz certainly did not use it for that. i therefore think that the floor should be opened again and asked if anyone would like to speak in favour of the proposal.
we have noted your concern, mr. schulz. (parliament rejected the proposal) the socialist group has asked for the vote on the reinhard rack report (a6-0408/2005) on improving the environmental performance of the freight transport system (marco polo ii) to be moved to wednesday. (parliament adopted the proposal) wednesday: the council has informed me - and i am passing on the information - that it will find it impossible to remain here after 7 p.m. this matter has been discussed in the conference of presidents and the council reaffirms its inability to continue here after 7 p.m. consequently, the council's question time will last only one hour.
i shall pass on to the council all the comments made here. thursday:the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe has asked for a third debate to be added on cases of violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, specifically on taiwan.
mr president of the republic of bolivia, i welcome you to the european parliament's plenary session at a time when europe's relations with latin america and the caribbean are very topical and are the subject of discussion between us. just three days ago, the leaders of our two continents held their fourth summit in vienna, in which you played an important role. the european parliament is pleased to welcome as president-elect of bolivia the first president of an indigenous ethnic group, the aymara, whose key words are the three wise words of ama sua: do not be a thief, ama quella: do not be lazy, ama hulla: do not be a liar. the president of bolivia is a person born in a poor and lost community of the bolivian territory, in isallavi, in the canton of orinoca, very close to lake poopó, in oruro, names that sound distant to us because they are not part of our usual geographical references. from childhood he worked in agricultural tasks, was in charge of taking care of the herd of llamas of his family, worked as a bricklayer, a mason, a baker and a trumpeter. later, when the bolivian highlands suffered one of the worst droughts in their history, his family emigrated to new lands, towards cochabamba. there he began a trade union and political career which has led him to the presidency of his country, the second poorest country in latin america after haiti, but which has the second largest gas reserves in all of latin america; a country in which two thirds of the population live in poverty and which has had throughout its history, after gaining its independence, difficult relations with its neighbours; a country which today represents an emergence of new political forces, such as that of the president, who won the elections with 53% of the votes and who is proposing, as you know, political measures on the nationalisation of the energy industry and the investments made there by many european companies, which are certainly interesting for us to discuss. i would therefore like to thank you, mr president, for being here and not only addressing the house but also for agreeing to take part in a debate in the committee on foreign affairs and the subsequent dinner. i believe, mr president, that we greatly appreciate your visit, because in vienna it was clearly recognized by many latin american heads of state that the return to democracy in the region has unfortunately not meant an improvement in the living conditions of a very large part of the latin american population. europe and latin america are determined to build a cohesive society, and bolivia is a clear example of the urgent need to include in human development a very important part of its population, which has not benefited from the natural wealth of its country. we shall also have the opportunity to discuss this in the euro-latin american parliamentary assembly which was decided to be set up at the vienna summit. i hope that this will give us new opportunities for political dialogue. your visit today, mr president, is both symbolic and multifaceted, because it reflects the commitment of the european parliament to increase relations with latin america, it reflects the importance of parliamentary diplomacy and it reflects the role that dialogue has to play in resolving the conflicts that arise between us. mr president, thank you again, you have the floor. (applause from the left)
president of the republic of bolivia. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to convey a special, cordial and fraternal greeting to all the people of europe. it is a great pleasure and a great pleasure to have been invited to take part in this important meeting of two continents: america and europe. it is an honour, a satisfaction and a pride to be with you and i come here accepting the invitation not only to listen to me, but also to listen to you. the indigenous peasant peoples of america, especially bolivia, belong to the culture of dialogue, to the culture of life, to the culture of balance, justice and equity. as our president of the european parliament said, i come from a very humble family, belonging to the aymara nation. we've historically been excluded, but we're not exclusive. historically we have been subjected to slavery, but we have never subjected other families to slavery; we are inclusive, we fight for unity while respecting the diversity of our peoples and, if, thanks to the conscience of my people, we came to the presidency as indigenous peoples, it was not for anyone's revenge, but for the hope of our peoples. the absence of the state in our indigenous peasant communities has left much to be desired and that is why we want to solve the social problems, the cultural problems, the economic problems and the structural problems of my country. if we talk about health, there are rural communities where there are no means to solve health problems; there is no recognition of traditional medicine and no policy for its recovery. we acknowledge some progress through the involvement of unesco. the subject of education is abandoned. for your information, my mother was illiterate and my father wrote little or nothing; he was also illiterate. my parents didn't have papers. that is why we have started to work on literacy in this short period of government, almost 110 days of presidency, thanks to the unconditional cooperation of some latin american, european and asian countries. at the end of this month, there will be a graduation of about 2,000 literate people. as regards the issue of documentation, we are also making progress thanks to solidarity. so far we are told that we have about 50 000 documented for free (indigenous peasant families, especially women) thanks to international cooperation. and in the matter of documentation, unfortunately there are families who have been totally abandoned; they have no documents and therefore have no certain citizenship rights. this is a very worrying issue in my country. i know that here in europe and on some continents, man's best friend, the dog, has a passport so that he can travel from one country to another. there we don't even have documentation or identity cards, or birth certificates to participate in electoral acts. so we are going to continue this identification campaign: in less than two months we have reached almost 50,000 new documents for free and we are going to move forward to reach one or two million documents for free. thanks also to the cooperation of some latin american countries we are carrying out campaigns to help the poorest families in health matters. through one eye operation, in less than two months we cured 8,000 people for free. these are some of the social problems we have in my country. that's why this political movement, the movement to socialism, initially called political instrument for the sovereignty of the peoples, created by the original indigenous peasant movement, has not been created by a group of political scientists, nor professionals or intellectuals, but in the face of injustice, to fight for economic, social claims, especially, in the year 1995, to change our bolivia, to end discrimination, even to change those policies that historically have been oriented to the extermination of the original indigenous peoples in our country and in our continent. indigenous peoples are human beings too, we have the same rights, the same duties, and we want to change. and fortunately this political movement is leading me to the presidency. i want you to know that unfortunately i did not have the opportunity to study at university; the best capital that our movement and evo morales have is honesty. my respect and admiration for the president when he mentions that cosmic law of our ancestors, the ama sua, ama hulla, ama quella, which is the law of the original indigenous peoples: do not steal, do not be lazy, do not lie. and that principle of a cosmic law brings us here and i have an obligation to carry forward this rule of our ancestors to change our history. you can certainly ask yourself about many structural issues, about many social issues. so far, of course, we have decided to recover our natural resources, renewable and non-renewable, natural resources that will help solve the social and economic problems of my country. and i want to convey to you the struggle in defense of the coca leaf, the struggle for water, to prevent any privatization of water resources, and the struggle for hydrocarbons, which are the struggles of our ancestors, of indigenous leaders, like tupac amaru, tupac katari and bartolina sisa: it was the struggle for territory. bolivia with such wealth, but also with such poverty. it is not a question of distributing poverty, but of redistributing wealth, and to redistribute wealth we have the obligation to recover it by nationalising it. it is true that oil and natural resources have already been nationalized twice in the last millennium. and now in this new millennium we have to nationalize my government and the bolivian people, with many social sectors, whether from the countryside or the city. but i want you to understand that no one is expropriated or evicted here. i want to be very honest and very respectful to you. our families come to europe out of necessity, out of lack of employment, and many are being expelled. historically, my country, my region, i would say, even all of america, formerly called abya ayala, has never expelled anyone. nor are we expelling anyone with this nationalization. i understand perfectly well that they have to recover their investment and have a right to the profits, but they cannot own the hydrocarbons, nor can they control them. the bolivian state shall carry out checks at the wellheads or at inspection centres. any company that invested in the country has every right to recover its investment and is entitled to the profits, but not to control, and therefore, they will be partners and not owners of our natural resources. (applause) i am very sorry that some media outlets want to confront us with regions, with continents, with countries, with companies. we belong to a culture of solidarity, a culture of reciprocity, and it is therefore important that we seek solutions together. it is true that in this process of change in bolivia we need cooperation, but i also bring you proposals to invite you to solve the problems together, whether in america or in europe. i understand that the issue of immigration is a problem for europeans. because of the lack of employment, many people leave america and bolivia and come to europe. the only way to solve this problem is to create sources of employment in bolivia, to guarantee markets to small craft producers, to micro entrepreneurs, to cooperatives, to associations, to communal enterprises. that will surely stop the massive invasion of bolivians and bolivians of this continent. the industrialization of natural resources is important. you know that historically we have been subjected to a permanent plundering of our natural resources. and if, at some point, the state controlled the natural resources, whether it was oil, whether it was minerals, it could not carry forward industrialization, give added value to these natural resources. after nationalisation, our task will be to industrialise, with partners, whether states or companies. there is no exclusion or marginalisation here. we are convinced that the industrialization of our natural resources will, if anything, stop the massive abandonment of my country to other countries. it used to be the united states or argentina and now i am sorry and i regret that many of our brothers and sisters are coming to europe to look for work. there is a central issue that is a problem for you and for us too: cocaine and drug trafficking. i want to tell you that as indigenous people, we are not from the cocaine culture. we're not from the drug culture. unfortunately, we have imported this new problem: cocaine. there must be a real and effective fight against drug trafficking. the fight against drug trafficking cannot be an instrument of domination, recolonization or subjugation. i feel that some country in america is using the issue of drug trafficking as an instrument of subjugation and subordination. i believe it is the responsibility of all of us to make an effective and real fight against drug trafficking. besides, i want to tell you that coke is not cocaine. i've been doing a lot of research on the history of coca in europe. the first countries to industrialize the coca leaf were europeans. we're talking about the 19th century. they've only recently begun to industrialize america or the united states. and it's not possible that the coca leaf is legal for coca-cola, but illegal for the andean region, for indigenous peoples. i feel it is important to revalue the coca leaf, but i want to tell you that, while during my administration, there will never be free cultivation of coca, there can also be zero coca. fortunately, we are working with our fellow coca leaf growers to rationalize their production, and i want to tell you, for your satisfaction, that we are talking about a small area of coca cultivation per family: 40 meters by 40 meters. we are convinced that part of the coca leaf is being diverted to an illegal market and we do not agree with that. the eradication policies with economic compensation and then the eradication under forced militarization, have left much to be desired in terms of human rights and the only way to stop this confrontation is that coca production is controlled by the peasant movement itself, rationalized and, in this way, that the fight against drug trafficking is effective and that the production of that small portion, of 40 x 40 meters surely many researchers have had to read the so-called cato, cato are not hectares, they are 40 x 40 meters is controlled and that its production goes to legal consumption: what better than industrializing for beneficial purposes for humanity. but the fight against drug trafficking cannot end with this control, but it is important to control the precursors, the chemical agents. and what better than, along with you, to control banking secrecy. because the real drug trafficker is not the one who is in jail right now in bolivia, but the one who moves billions and billions of dollars. and he doesn't walk around with dollars on the trails or in the buses or the trucks. he runs the private banks. what better way than by controlling private banking, banks, even if they are state-owned, to end this form of drug trafficking business. (applause) i would like to take this opportunity, through you, to express to all the nations of europe my respect and admiration for the european union. in bolivia we also have a great desire to unite the andean, the latin american, the south american peoples. that will be our responsibility. it will surely be a process in which we need dialogue and patience to bring our countries together. i say this because in bolivia we have decided to rebuild bolivia, to end economic models that have not solved social problems, to change that colonial state. i also want to say, with all due respect, that the colonial state exists at this moment. but we are not proposing change or armed struggle. i am very sorry that in some of the countries bordering bolivia there is an armed confrontation. thanks to this political movement, which is born from the most despised and hated sector historically, the most discriminated sector, such as the indigenous peoples. why do i speak of the original indigenous peoples? the last census in 2001 shows that 62.2% of the population is indigenous. i would say that we are more than 70 percent or almost 80 percent of the original indigenous peoples. because, at the founding of bolivia, in the year 1825, 90 percent of the population was made up of indigenous people and 10 percent founded bolivia. however, that 90% participated in the struggle for independence and, now, in democracy, peacefully, through a refoundation of bolivia, we want to change and we want to make a democratic, cultural and peaceful revolution, avoiding any confrontation. i believe that here will be born the real change, that makes it possible to live in peace with social justice. i fully understand the countries and many businessmen who want legal certainty. we all fight for legal certainty, but for that it is important that there be social security, health, education, housing, employment. that will happen, above all, when we recover our natural resources and when they benefit the entire bolivian people. we are betting on that transformation in the economic and in the political. i would like to express my great satisfaction with the support that the secretary-general of the united nations is giving us. i have been invited to a small meeting with the secretary-general of the united nations, kofi annan, who has promised me all the support for the constituent assembly, both in advisory and economic terms, to ensure this profound and democratic transformation of my country. i would like to count on your presence, your experience, for this profound change. i am convinced that europe is the symbol of democracy, that it defends democracy and human rights. and speaking of human rights, i want to ask in a very particular way that you help us defend them in bolivia. and defending human rights in bolivia means creating sources of employment, health and education, and reclaiming our natural resources. i want to say, with all due respect, that there were some governments, before, in dictatorships, that massacred people. you know perfectly well the history of bolivia. but also democratic governments, to defend interests other than bolivian interests, massacred bolivians and some of them escaped to the united states. legally, appealing to the bolivian justice, we have asked for the extradition of those who humiliated bolivia and i want to ask for your support so that those people who have done so much damage to the human and economic rights of bolivians are judged by the bolivian justice, such as gonzalo sánchez de lozada and sánchez berzaín, who killed many people in my country and we want them to be submitted to the bolivian justice. (applause) in this process of change, we seek not only political interaction, and understanding between countries, but also integration, through the road network of my country. bolivia, the heart of south america, has no access to the sea because of a historical injustice. with my government we can solve this road backbone with all the neighboring countries. we have only a part with peru, but we have no paved road with chile, argentina, potosí, tarija, or brazil. i have the greatest respect and greetings for the president of brazil. it is not true that we are at odds, as some media outlets imply. we have a strategic alliance with the brazilian government. i understand that lula, former labor union leader, is an older brother who really guides me. and we would also like to receive some guidance here in europe. i was just saying to you that we are not exclusive, we are inclusive. i want to learn from you, but i want to learn fundamentally how to seek solutions within the framework of balance, justice and equality. that's my great desire and that's why we fight. now we have the opportunity, from our government, a popular and indigenous government, with the support of many intellectual and even business sectors in bolivia middle class. i have an experience so far. some comrades, compatriots from the city tell me two things: "i'm not indigenous, but now i'm an indigenist". they tell me: "before, governments made us cry of depression, now our government makes us cry of emotion, of dignity, of establishing sovereignty, of respect between us and, above all, of recovering our natural resources". and that is why i would like to say to you, honourable members of the european parliament, that through you i would like to maintain a strategic alliance for life, for humanity. the experience of indigenous peoples is not exclusion or marginalization, i repeat is solidarity, reciprocity and not only with human beings, but also harmony with mother earth. we are very concerned that the western model of industrialization is affecting the planet earth, mother earth: the pachamama. if we do not revise this form of industrialisation, surely in a short time, everyone, not just you or us, but everyone, will have a problem of life. i think it is important to collect initiatives and proposals that come from the people to defend and save humanity and that will be done fundamentally by respecting mother earth, living in harmony with her. (applause) these are important contributions that we can make, based on our experience. based on our natural organizations, whether they are unions, whether they are communities, whether they are councils of elders, those authorities who are constantly debating and proposing solutions. i have understood that it is not a question of imposing programmes or policies, but of collecting these proposals and programmes for the good of humanity. it is also true that in this process of change it is important how to participate in bolivia and that is neither subordination nor submission - some media said: "they are puppets" - but it is about, in a horizontal way, sharing our principles and our experiences. we hope that this little intervention in the european parliament will be of some use. we want to end the beggar state. generally the governments of bolivia went abroad to ask for help, begged for the general budget of the nation. we want to end this. i am sure that by increasing export volumes and improving the price - a rational price, not blackmailing or imposing prices - by recovering our natural resources, we will put an end to this beggar state. i am very sorry that we have a beggar state and we would like, with you, looking back on history, now, in this new millennium, to solve those social and cultural problems. i want to tell you, on behalf of the bolivian people, and especially on behalf of the indigenous movement, that we want to have strategic allies to defend life. we want to end that hatred, that racism, that contempt. we are of the inclusive culture, not the exclusive one, although we have been subjected to exclusion, and, indeed, after hearing that i was invited to the european parliament, i was very happy and very proud of you. i want you to be proud of the original indigenous peoples, who defend life. it is an honor and a new experience for me, although we always start nervously - my apologies - but, with all my heart and with great respect, i want to count on your support to save lives and to improve the social and cultural situation of my country. thank you very much. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
mr president of the republic of bolivia, thank you very much for your words, words which came from your heart and which the members of parliament have welcomed with the applause you have just received. mr president, you are the democratically elected representative of your people, you have presented an electoral programme which has the support of your citizens and is guided by the best intentions to achieve prosperity for all of them. i hope that bolivia and europe can maintain a partnership which, while respecting the rule of law, will enable us to contribute to the construction of a future of shared progress. thank you very much, mr. president. (applause from the right)
mr president, a few days ago the bureau of this parliament rejected the use of catalan and the co-official languages of the spanish state between the citizens and this institution, which should be the closest and most representative of their interests. the spanish government's proposal is already a reality in other european institutions: in the council of ministers, the commission and the committee of the regions, where it is functioning as normal. the proposal has no cost to parliament and of course it does not detract from the implementation of the other official languages of the new member states. it is an initiative which will bring citizens closer to the european institutions. the general union of workers, one of the largest trade unions in spain, has launched a campaign calling for support for this initiative, because it believes that this would be beneficial for social cohesion. the european parliament, as the defender of cultural diversity, cannot and should not be the only institution which does not give effect to this right of more than 12 million citizens. by the way, do you know that catalan is the fourth most widely used language in the discussion forum on the future of europe that the commission has set up? i would ask you to raise this request in the bureau, because it will help to bring citizens closer to europe and to all citizens.
mr president, on 22 january a demonstration in support of the victims of terrorism was held in madrid, attended by the then minister of defence, whose presence was booed by a large number of the demonstrators. the minister said that he had been attacked at the demonstration and, as a result, two members of the popular party were arrested by the national police, despite the fact that there was no evidence against them. there were, however, political orders. these arrests were illegal, because they violated constitutional rights and, therefore, the judges have sentenced three police officials to prison terms for this crime of illegal detention, which, as the sentence states, was an unmotivated, arbitrary, abusive and anti-legal detention. when these events took place, the minister of the interior, mr alonso at the time, who today still holds responsibilities in the socialist executive of my country, endorsed in congress the conduct of the police which he ordered and directed. that is to say, he endorsed an attack on spanish democracy, such as the arrest without evidence of these popular party militants. and today this minister is washing his hands and, far from assuming his responsibility, is hiding behind the resignation of a political post of second order. that is why we are denouncing this case today in the european parliament and my group is announcing that we will be asking the commission and the council about this matter which concerns a member state of the european union.
mr president, the galician language is one of the oldest romance languages, which has survived for many centuries without institutional protection thanks to the will of its citizens, until spanish democracy recognized its official status and the right to be used by citizens. i therefore deplore the decision of the bureau to close the door to a reasonable use of this language in parliament's relations with the citizens. i regret that it has gone against the direction taken by other community institutions, and that it lacks democratic consistency. it is an unfair and disproportionate decision and i therefore ask that it be reconsidered. during this part-session, next wednesday will be celebrated as the day of the galician letters. i am therefore aware of the work done by the president in this area and i would ask him to send a message of support for this celebration, which recognises the european vocation of the galician language and its contribution to the richness and cultural diversity of the union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am the alternative rapporteur on the fortification regulation and therefore i have to start by saying that the commission proposal was reasonably balanced. but nevertheless, mrs scheele has done a great job of harmonizing criteria and i congratulate her for that. i would also like to thank the council and the commission for the efforts they have made to reach an agreement at second reading. consumption of enriched foods in a varied diet can supplement nutrient intake. the important thing is that fortification be based on scientific criteria and that all agri-food industries be subject to the same rules with as little bureaucracy as possible. the aim of this proposal is to harmonize existing national provisions and therefore my group does not agree that provisions allowing for stricter standards in some countries should be allowed, unless scientifically justified on public health grounds. i think it is right that we have extended the time limit for placing on the market for some products which are already on the market and labelled on the date on which the regulation enters into force. finally, the food supply we enjoy is very varied and we will not get through standards and labels to end obesity. by that rule of three maybe what should be banned is the remote control of the televisions. the solution is much more complex. food must be healthy and the consumer must be informed accurately. what's really important is that each person chooses his diet in the life he practices. that's why education is so much more effective than so much of the regulation we're giving to try to end obesity. as regards mrs poli bortone's report, she and the other rapporteurs, especially mrs sommer, have done an excellent job. the explanatory statement for this proposal for a regulation stresses the absence of specific community provisions as one of the most important reasons for the establishment of this new regulation, and i agree with that. but wine, for example, is an agricultural product which is covered by a very complete common organization of the market, which prohibits nutritional and health claims on its labelling, which regulates advertising, which regulates promotion, which regulates absolutely everything. it is therefore unjustified to regulate what is already regulated and will do nothing but confuse consumers and further complicate regulation, let alone complicate production companies. wine should not be covered by this regulation and i cannot understand why producing countries such as spain, france or italy have not defended these arguments in the council. i also regret that we have missed the opportunity to touch up the annexes. and finally, i would just like to refer to everything mrs sommer has said, which i fully support.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank members for a very interesting debate. those who have worked with me for the past year and a half know by now that i tend to speak in a very open and frank way. i can honestly say that this is the only legislative proposal i never thought i would have to fight for. it is a proposal based on logic. it states that if someone wants to make money by using a marketing tool, that person or company has to tell the truth. it is simple. (applause)we talk about consumer choice. what would consumers do: set up a little chemical laboratory at home to analyse every food to see whether it has sugar or fat? how can consumers exercise this choice unless someone checks that this is accurate? regarding health claims, will consumers carry out clinical tests in at home to see whether a specific product lowers cholesterol? it is impossible! that is why it is important to have this legislation adopted, especially after the compromise, and i am surprised that there has been no legislation so far in this respect. what happens if we do not have this legislation? what will be the result? anybody can say anything and hope for the best. in the european union, all of us, including the leaders of large member states, pledge to place the european citizen at the heart of european policies. i believe that this is a good test of whether we actually do so. i firmly agree that better regulation is an essential policy for us. however, that does not mean there should be no regulation, especially when it comes to health and consumer protection. it means we have to do it in the proper way. as i stated in my introductory remarks, i believe that with parliament’s suggestions and amendments we now have a good piece of legislation which does not put any unnecessary burden on the industry and, at the same time, protects the consumer. we tend to forget a very important aspect: the internal market. you have my word that these areas of health will be regulated. the question is whether it will be done at community level, meaning that there will be one level playing field in the internal market and that industry, benefiting from the 450 million consumers, can be competitive, or whether there will be 25 different sets of rules and regulations breaking up the internal market. all along i have been in dialogue with the industry and this is what it would like. i always ask industry representatives whether they would prefer one piece of legislation, even a strict one, or 25 different laws with flexible levels. they prefer to have one piece of legislation. that is a very important factor. on wine, i understand what was said, but we have to remember that wine is an alcoholic beverage. it may come from an agricultural product, but it contains alcohol and it must be covered by this legislation. on the issue of fluoride, i must remind you that the problem mentioned is compulsory fluoridation, which does not come under this legislation but under the member states’ competence. it is a different issue and we could discuss it, but it is not part of this legislation, because the claims and additions in question are voluntary. in conclusion, as i have already said, it is a good compromise. each side would have liked to see this compromise go a bit further in one direction or another. however, it takes into account, in a balanced way, the interests of all stakeholders. i agree that, alone, it cannot solve the problem of obesity. as you know, we have generally followed a non-regulatory approach to deal with such a complex issue. we have set up a platform and we are discussing with industry and stakeholders how we can each help to solve this problem. however, in certain areas legislation and regulation are required. we therefore need a combination of all actions and initiatives to achieve the ultimate goal commission’s position on parliament’s amendments (both reports): see annex..
member of the commission. mr president, i welcome parliament’s report on the commission’s proposal concerning eels and would like to thank the rapporteur, mr maat, for his good work. i see that parliament has taken very seriously the grave threat to the european eel population. parliament has made a number of helpful and practical suggestions to improve the proposal. i can support many of the amendments as they stand. a number of others i can support in principle, but not their inclusion in the proposal, because they should be dealt with in another way. a small number of other issues require further scientific analysis before they can be implemented practically. i can accept amendments 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 10, 12, 13, 15, 21, 22, 23, 27 and 29. i agree that member states should be able to choose their own closed seasons to reduce fishing effort by 50% and that the timescale of the proposal should be lengthened so that member states can better develop management plans and have more flexibility in defining the areas to which eel management plans should apply. i also accept that member states should be able to move forwards individually if difficulties arise in developing management plans in cooperation between several states. there are several amendments proposed to which i am sympathetic in principle, but which concern issues that i believe should be addressed differently. amendments 4, 8 and 11 concern implementation and further research on the way aquaculture could be involved in improving the stocking of european waters with eels. research needs cannot be addressed directly in a council regulation of this type. funding through the framework programmes and consultation of advisory bodies, such as the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries, are more appropriate ways to further research. i will ensure that these more appropriate methods for commissioning research are used. until the results of the research requested in amendment 4 are available, it would be premature to proceed with implementation as requested in amendments 8 and 11. amendments 5 and 25 concern exports of glass eels. this is a trade issue. once the community has developed internal conservation measures for eels, the community could then develop export restrictions that would favour and protect the use of eels for populating community inland waters. my colleague, commissioner mandelson, is aware of this issue and he will begin preparing export measures for glass eels once the council has taken a decision on eel conservation. in order to ensure compatibility with the world trade organization rules, conservation measures within our own waters must be the first step. amendment 9 expresses a good idea: migration of glass eels should not be obstructed. however, i consider it would be more in the spirit of the developed approach adopted in this proposed regulation that member states should make such choices themselves in the context of eel management measures. amendment 16 is no longer necessary, because i have accepted that member states can have flexibility in the definition of eel river basins, as requested in amendment 13. i agree with the principle expressed in amendment 17, but the possibility for several member states to prepare a joint management plan is already covered in article 8. amendments 18 and 28 concern the targets and implementing methods to achieve eel stock recovery. here i refer to the latest advice of the stecf. this advice tells us that it is extremely difficult to measure eel escapement and that it is preferable to focus on directly applicable measures such as a 50% reduction in the impact on eels due to fishing and a similar reduction in the effect on eels of fixed installations such as turbines and pumps. i believe we should proceed on this basis at present, but member states should improve and refine data collection concerning eels in order to improve management targets and measures. amendments 19 and 21 concern financial aid for restocking and for constructing passes for eels. i support these ideas so long as restocking results in improved silver eel escapement, but as these ideas are to be included in the new european fisheries fund regulation, this piece of legislation is not the right place for them. i can accept that the burden caused by the need for reports should be lightened, as proposed in amendment 26, but this could take place through less frequent reports. it is still necessary for member states to improve substantially the collection of data, so a requirement to improve the scientific basis for eel management is an important part of my proposal. amendment 24 suggests extending eel management plans to coastal waters and, in particular, to the baltic sea. i agree that management of eel fisheries in coastal areas is important, but it would not be technically feasible at present to apply an escapement target to sea fisheries, because this cannot be measured. indeed, i will support the inclusion of marine fisheries for eels as fisheries that should be subject to a 50% reduction of general fishing effort. i thank the committee on fisheries and the rapporteur, mr maat, for their very positive cooperation in the preparation of this report. i sincerely hope that, by making a significant and substantial effort in the near future, it will be possible to improve considerably the situation of eel stocks in europe.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken note of both this parliament's report on the recovery of european eel and the working methods of the rapporteur, mr maat. the rigidity of the commission proposal, its obsession with ignoring the biological behaviour of eels, whose capture is closely linked to the lunar phases, and the injustice of placing fishing as the sole cause of the decline in the population of eels have been replaced by a commitment from the rapporteur, who deserves our thanks for his flexibility and his sensitivity to listen to the arguments of the different fleets fishing for eels at all stages of their life and in habitats and watersheds of enormous disparity across europe. the commission proposal was rejected by the industry in all the countries of the union, by the national administrations and by this parliament. the report by mr maat was unanimously adopted by the committee on fisheries and has restored calm. the commission must therefore take note. we are aware of the urgent need to restore the eel population and therefore propose to reduce fishing effort by half. it is proposed, however, that this should be done in a reasonable way, by eliminating the commission's absurd claim to stop fishing from the 1st to the 15th of each month. the obligation for future national plans to guarantee an eels escape rate of 40%, which is virtually impossible to calculate, is also removed and replaced by measures guaranteeing a high adult eel escape rate and it is requested that this be taken into account not only for fishing but also for all human activities along the rivers which prevent or make it impossible for eels to return to the sea. in short, the report by mr maat and the committee on fisheries is a consensus report, balanced and measured, and i hope, in line with what the commissioner has said, that both he and the council will take note of it.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although the inland fishing for eel is not officially subject to the common fisheries policy, we are all aware of the decline in the population of this species in recent years, which could put the eel at risk of extinction if an action plan within the european union is not put into practice. in order to remedy this situation, the commission is presenting us with a proposal for a regulation containing measures which are well-intentioned but which, in my humble opinion, can be improved. in the basque country, which i represent here, we are very familiar not with the adult individual 'the eel', but with its juvenile 'the angulas', which have historically been part of one of the most succulent and appreciated dishes of our cuisine. for that historical reason, we know that the life cycle of our eel is very long, that it is a migratory species, and that the females, before dying, travel for a year to spawn in the sargasso sea, located in the atlantic ocean between the islands of bermuda and puerto rico, where they release up to 20 million leaf-shaped eggs, which float freely in groups in the form of balls or balls, which are carried by the sea currents and take a year to reach the north american coasts and up to three years to reach the european coasts. when they arrive in our rivers, they have undergone a metamorphosis: they have already become eels and continue to grow until they reach maturity as eels. and since their fishery is dependent on the lunar cycle, the measure of banning their fishing from the first to the fifteenth day of each month could either lead to the almost total closure of the fishery or, on the contrary, have no effect on it, depending on how the moon phase is in that fortnight. it is more effective to shorten the fishing season so that fishing effort is halved. on the other hand, the proposed timetable does not seem to be virtually feasible, since the plans require coordination between different regions and even member states and this takes time. furthermore, as the current knowledge for the calculation of the escape rate is not sufficient and the models currently being investigated in the slime project will not be available in the short term, it is best to postpone the authorisation to fish for eels in seasonal closure periods until 2008 as an exception based on a certain management plan. we know that many people live off this fishery and we cannot ruin the sector, but we must find a balance that at the same time guarantees the continuity of the resource. i congratulate the rapporteur and i congratulate the council on their working document, which confirms everything we have said.
mr president, this proposal is the result of the commission communication on the drawing up of a community action plan for the management of european eel. the communication announced measures such as the prohibition of fishing gear for silver eels in certain areas, measures to facilitate their migration downstream and, finally, complementary proposals to improve survival rates during other phases of their life cycle. the commission justified this sequence on the basis that the benefits of reducing the fishing of baby eels remain uncertain and made clear its belief that the evolution of the population depended on factors other than fishing: pollution of waterways, loss of habitats, non-maintenance of ecological flows and obstacles to upward and downward migration. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing effort is not disrupted. it is a proposal which also raises an arbitrary and unjustified two-week ban on fishing, landing or keeping eels from the first to the fifteenth day of each month. these are drastic, misguided measures, complemented by a very difficult to define and monitor objective - the escape to the sea of 40% of the adult eel biomass. in this respect, the report by the committee on fisheries and the work done by the rapporteur, mr maat, correct these two serious pitfalls and will of course have our support. i would also like to ask the group of the european people's party and our rapporteur, mr maat, not to go from being an arsonist to being a fireman, and i am referring in particular to the proposal to ban angula, which has very serious economic consequences for certain regions of my country.
member of the commission. mr president, i am very pleased to refer today to the commission proposal for a council regulation concerning the new fisheries partnership agreement between the community and morocco. before outlining the commission’s position on this file, let me first thank the committee on fisheries and especially its chairman, mr morillon, for his excellent work, and the rapporteur, mr varela suanzes-carpegna, for his report. as members know, this agreement marks the renewal of our relations with the kingdom of morocco in the fisheries sector after the previous agreement came to an end in november 1999. the agreement also marks an important step forward towards strengthening our overall relations with morocco. the agreement marks a new era in fisheries relations between the union and morocco. for the first time the commission has negotiated a fisheries partnership with morocco, following the principles laid down in the council conclusions of july 2004. it prepares the ground for fruitful cooperation between the two parties with a view to achieving sustainable fishing and it will foster a favourable climate for further cooperation in all segments of the fisheries sector. the new fisheries partnership agreement establishes the basis for a political dialogue between the community and morocco in order to identify areas of common interest, thereby taking into account also the particular objectives, needs and opportunities of the moroccan fishing sector. on this basis, the agreement will contribute to the development of a reasonable fisheries policy in the waters concerned. at the same time, i am convinced that the agreement with morocco is a very balanced one, which responds to the interests of the community fleet and in particular the small-scale fleet that was most affected by the terms of the previous agreement.six categories of fishing possibilities are covered by the agreement. four of them are small-scale fisheries, small pelagic vessels in the north, bottom long-liners, small-scale vessels in the south, and pole-and-line tuna vessels. a category of demersal fisheries is also included, as well as industrial pelagic fisheries, which is limited to a quota of 60 000 tonnes of catches per year. the protocol sets the financial contribution at eur 36.1 million per year. a substantial part of this amount – eur 13.5 million – is earmarked for support measures in view of the implementation of a sustainable and reasonable fisheries policy. the agreement has been concluded for a period of four years and contains a number of elements on which the partnership approach is based. they include, amongst other things, an exclusivity clause which prohibits the existence of private licences or other private arrangements outside the scope of the agreement; scientific cooperation in order to promote responsible fishing in moroccan fishing zones; the possibility of a review of the fishing opportunities on the basis of scientific evidence and within the limits required by the sustainable management of morocco’s resources; vessel monitoring system requirements to reinforce checks on vessels operating in moroccan fishing zones; and the social clause applicable to local seamen signed on by community vessels. i am confident that this agreement will be implemented in the best possible way and in the spirit of partnership, dialogue and remarkable mutual respect that has characterised our relations with the kingdom of morocco since the beginning of the negotiations. at this point allow me to turn briefly to the amendments. although the commission can agree with the spirit of certain amendments, such as amendments 2, 5, 7, 10 and 13, it does not consider them necessary. similarly it does not consider amendment 4 necessary, and it cannot accept amendments 1, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11 or 12. on amendments 14 to 18, the question of the ec-morocco fisheries partnership agreement and the related question of western sahara have been discussed at great length, in the european parliament’s fisheries committee, as well as in the committee on development and the committee on budgets. i would like to emphasise again that the agreement is fully in conformity with international law. this has also been confirmed by the opinion of the european parliament’s legal service, and the legal services of the commission and the council. the content of the agreement does not contain any provision dealing with the legal status of the maritime waters pertaining to western sahara. it defines the moroccan fishing zone as the waters falling within the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the kingdom of morocco. this neither defines nor prejudges the legal status of the waters concerned. according to the provisions of the agreement, it is up to the moroccan authorities as the contracting party concerned to define the fishing zones on the basis of which fishing licences will be issued.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we promised, we are here today, after only a partial part-session, to present to the house a report by our committee on fisheries on the agreement between the european union and morocco. we felt that the commission should not be robbed of the debate on this sensitive agreement, and that it should therefore be discussed and approved in advance by the commission. i think that this time has been very useful: it has been for the rapporteur, who now has more information than he had then, and it has been because it has allowed us to know in depth what has been agreed and what has not yet been agreed, it has allowed us to help the commission to favour an agreement which still has very important issues under negotiation, shedding light and shorthand, as befits a parliament. we are therefore in a position today to ask the house to vote in favour of this agreement, but with the precautions, nuances, guarantees and improvements which we have introduced in the committee on fisheries and which are included in the report. i believe that with him we have improved the agreement and the institutional position of parliament and we have exercised fully and responsibly the functions for which we were elected. our real objective was and is to improve the guarantees for the fisheries sector, which is a beneficiary of the agreement, to ensure that its provisions are complied with and to make it operational and profitable. we did not understand then, and we do not understand now, why some people were opposed to this exercise of accountability and transparency. the agreement was politically sensitive, along with the technical and fisheries issues to which i shall now turn, because of the thorny issue of western sahara, which we could not ignore but in which we should not delve into or interfere. i have tried to be neutral on this issue, recognizing the problem, but without speaking for either side, so as not to tip the balance from parliament to one of them, but, of course, always respecting international law and the current dispute, without ignoring it, and including the doctrine of the united nations in relation to the non-self-governing territories. the opinion of parliament's legal service has been very useful and is incorporated in the report, as are the amendments by our colleague mrs attwooll, whom i thank for her sensitivity and understanding, and the only amendment adopted by the committee on development concerning the sahara. i would also like to thank mr kindermann, the coordinator of the socialist group, for his attention to me and for his efforts to keep his group united. in short, i believe, as rapporteur, that the report is balanced and reasonable, even though the commitments involve concessions and never satisfy everyone one hundred percent. i should now like to express my views on the strictly fisheries aspects of the report. the european parliament approves the agreement but reserves to itself, as i have said, the scrupulous monitoring of its implementation, which is fully in line with our monitoring functions of the commission, requesting a comprehensive annual report on its implementation and in particular requiring that it keep us informed of each and every amendment to the text; in particular, we demand to know the opinions that the commission issues in relation to the possible modification of the exclusivity clause of the agreement. we want to know how fish stocks are changing, especially those species which are excluded from the agreement and which are of high commercial value, such as cephalopods and crustaceans, because their exclusion is putting the galician fleet on the sidelines. we also want to know what measures are being taken to enable the andalusian fleet to operate with lights, as it has been doing, and to ensure that there is no discrimination in this fishery or in the measures to ensure landings in local ports. we also want to know about the technical measures which have not yet been clarified in relation to long-line fishing and the agreements of the joint committee which refer to the way in which the financial contribution from the european union will be invested. the final allocation of fishing opportunities must be transmitted to parliament, as adjustments are still being made to them. we have therefore adopted the amendments tabled by mrs fraga, so that the allocations will respect relative stability and that the sector and parliament itself can be observers of the implementation of these crucial matters. if it could be irresponsible to prolong the parliamentary procedure for this agreement indefinitely, it would, in our view, have been even more irresponsible to approve it with our eyes closed and therefore without these requirements and guarantees. we have wanted to assure all the parties involved that the agreement will be implemented with all rigor and seriousness and in accordance with international standards. that was our difficult commitment and will continue to be in the future, to monitor from the european parliament its implementation, after it has entered into force, in accordance with the amendments adopted by the committee on fisheries and if, as i hope and hope, the house ratifies the report tomorrow in plenary. thank you all for your understanding and cooperation.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, it is obviously a pleasure to have a fisheries agreement with morocco again, although unfortunately, as the rapporteur has said, we do not yet know the exact terms. we do know, however, that after six years of no agreement, during which contacts have not ceased, the two fleets which gave the fishing relations with that country their true weight - the cephalopod and the crustacean fleets - have in the end been left out. it's one of the reasons this celebration has a bittersweet flavor. but unfortunately, there are more problems. we regret the pressure we have been subjected to from other institutions, including pressure to break established procedures, which has greatly complicated the work of our commission and the rapporteur, when we only want this new agreement not to give the same amount of problems as the previous one, and to obtain legal guarantees that the content sent to parliament really corresponds to what our fleet is going to encounter. it is regrettable that doubts still persist about this, since what the commission calls 'minor technical negotiating errors' can mean, for example, that the fencing fleet cannot get to work. the possibility of amending the technical specifications is also too wide open and we therefore ask that all possible information be sent to us and that members of this parliament be allowed to attend the joint committees as observers. finally, we should thank the rapporteur for the balance he has struck on the political issues that have arisen. we agree with him that the committee on fisheries is not the place to solve problems of international policy of great depth and complexity. your report is scrupulous in its respect for international law and follows - as has been said - the criteria of the legal reports of the community institutions, which is why we again call for the new amendments tabled to be rejected and instead call for the support of all the groups for the rapporteur's report. and finally, i would like to ask the commissioner what stage the approval of this proposal is at by the moroccan chamber, which, as we were told, was to meet on 15 april, this being one of the first topics of debate. we want to know whether it is already in the process of being approved by the moroccan parliament.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i believe that the ec-morocco fisheries partnership agreement is of paramount importance in two ways: on the one hand, from a social and economic point of view, there are and have been many fishermen who have been waiting for six years, with their boats moored, for a firm political will to make the signing of a fisheries agreement with morocco a priority. on the other hand, this agreement is also of great political importance because it contributes to the normalisation of relations between the european union and the neighbouring country of morocco. it is not a purely economic agreement, as it seeks collaboration in the sustainable management of resources and improved cooperation. the agreement responds to a new dynamic in fisheries partnerships between the european union and third countries. i would also like to stress that this is the best possible agreement. i want to say clearly that i think this is a good agreement for the european fisheries sector, both in terms of the number of licences it will allow and in terms of industrial fishing capacity. i would remind those who welcome the agreement but are also critical of it that it will allow the resumption of an activity which has been stalled for too long, with a number of licences and industrial fishing capacity that have not been available for six years. i believe that the agreement is based on a will to remain, with the necessary mechanisms to resolve any disputes that may arise and with the possibility of improving the figure when resources allow it. this agreement was submitted to parliament a few months ago, following a consultation procedure. the fishermen, the sector and with them the majority of citizens were hoping that the agreement, which took a lot of time, work and negotiation to reach, would receive the support of the house and that it would enter into force, that is, that fishermen could start fishing as soon as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this unnecessary delay culminated in the refusal to deal with the report under the urgency procedure, which would have allowed it to enter into force in may. all this delay and the consequent damage to fishermen has resulted in the presentation of a report which, in my view, does not contain any significant changes in the text and whose delay has only served to open up discussions which have nothing to do with the fisheries sector. i think it's time to look to the future. i welcome the agreement without any reservations, and i consider it a positive achievement. i therefore ask this parliament to support it, and thus send a message to the fishermen and the sector that your parliament wholeheartedly supports their immediate return to activity and intends this time to be in a lasting way.
mr president, i think that today is an important date because, with the signing of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco and a protocol for the coming years, relations are being restored, fisheries, which were suspended after the termination of the previous one in 1999. i remember perfectly well, commissioner, the difficult time we had when the previous agreement was broken and how many fishermen, mostly spanish - and most of them galician, canarian and andalusian - were forced to make a difficult conversion. that was not a bittersweet moment, mr commissioner, it was a manifestly bitter moment - and very bitter. in this sense, the achievement of this agreement, for which i warmly congratulate you, mr commissioner, and your whole team - and i also thank you very much for being here with us today - has contributed, and not a little, to the beginning of a new stage of cooperation and dialogue between the commission and the kingdom of morocco. i would like to stress, because i think it deserves to be stressed, that, unlike six years ago, the spanish government has followed the commission's negotiating process with great effort, and it has been successful. i would like to remind you that this agreement, which is part of a new generation of agreements, will make a very positive contribution to the development of the fisheries sector in our southern neighbour. and in this respect, commissioner, i congratulate you, because we are going to contribute to the creation of stable jobs and we are going to help to combat illegal immigration.
mr president, we believe that it is legitimate, even necessary - as has been said - to normalize relations between morocco and the european union in the fisheries sector, but this should not be done at the expense of legitimising an illegal occupation of western sahara by morocco. the united nations does not consider morocco to be the administrator of the sahara, so it cannot negotiate on the saharawi waters, and the european union, by accepting de facto that these waters should be included, is unfortunately contributing to the continuation of the situation of plunder that we have so often denounced in this house. as the convention on the law of the sea states, the benefits of exploiting a territory whose status has not yet been defined by the united nations must be in favour of the population of the territory concerned. however, the hostile and uncooperative attitude of the moroccan authorities in relation to the western sahara dispute makes them very unreliable in this respect. we therefore believe that the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco should explicitly exclude the saharawi waters, otherwise our group will be forced to vote against the report and therefore against the agreement.
mr president, i would like to thank the commission and the commissioner for the work they have done in bringing about this agreement with morocco. i would like to express my full agreement with the points made by the commissioner about rejecting the unfounded amendments that are being proposed, because there is no basis in international law for the claim to subordinate this agreement to political conditions of another kind. in doing so, i would like to express the gratitude of a part of the population i represent and live amongst, the canary islands population, which is also a neighbouring population in these waters, which has always fished in these waters and not, as some have said, with colonialist means. my great-grandfather signed an agreement with the people of the coast to fish in it, based on the principle of mutual interest. we were fishing in those waters, we will be fishing again and i want to thank the commission for the effort it has made. i hope that this parliament will approve this agreement by a large majority, which is very fair and very correct from the point of view of international law.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr varela suanzes-carpegna for his opening remarks. i fully understand the points raised regarding monitoring and i have no difficulty with keeping the committee on fisheries informed of how the agreement is actually implemented. i fully share the concern to keep parliament informed of the various aspects of the implementation of the protocol. i would like to underline that the commission already complies with the requirements on the transmission of information, in line with the current institutional arrangements. we have also continued discussions with the chairman and members of the committee on fisheries in order to try to improve the existing exchange of information and dialogue, in particular with regard to the conclusion and the ex-post follow-up to the conclusion of fisheries agreements. concerning the points raised by mrs fraga estévez, in particular with regard to cephalopods and crustaceans, i would like to underline that article 4 of the protocol provides for reviewing the fishing possibilities under the agreement if the scientific reports indicate an improvement of the situation of certain stocks. on the basis of the conclusions of the annual scientific committee meetings, the two parties can agree jointly to modify the existing fishing possibilities as long as sustainable management of the resource is ensured. the fishing possibilities established in the agreement reflect the total amount of available species, as recommended by the scientific report, and the capacities of the moroccan national fleet. the commission does not intend to re-open discussion on this issue except within the parameters of article 4. also, with regard to the point raised concerning modalities, the modalities referred to are certainly important but let me emphasise that these are technical questions that by their nature are not defined in the agreement. technical modalities such as the use of lamparo, the number of hooks for long-liners and the issue of landings for industrial pelagic fishery will be fine-tuned during the first joint committee meeting that will be convened after the entry into force of the agreement, and we certainly have no problem with keeping parliament and the sector fully informed. information could be given on technical modifications during our regular closed session meetings. the next one is foreseen for 21 june and if by then we have already had contact with the moroccans, we will certainly report back to the committee on fisheries on the outcome of those contacts. i was asked by mrs fraga estévez how far morocco has proceeded with regard to concluding the process of adoption of the agreement. our information is that everything is moving smoothly. we do not know of any particular difficulties on the moroccan side. it should therefore be adopted by the moroccan parliament immediately after we have adopted it some time in june. i would like to thank all those who have expressed support for the agreement reached. regarding the point raised by mrs corbey concerning the ex-ante evaluation, let me say that it was sent in september to the chairman of the committee on fisheries and distributed to all members of the committee on fisheries. as regards the points raised by mrs attwooll and a number of others, i repeat that concerning western sahara the wording used in the agreement was formulated very carefully. i repeat that it neither defines nor prejudges the legal status of the waters concerned. again, with regard to what mr schlyter, mr hudghton, mr guerreiro and others said on the question as to whether morocco can conclude agreements that concern the exploitation of the natural resources of western sahara, the united nations legal adviser gives a clear answer. although the united nations has never recognised morocco as an administrative power in accordance with article 73 of the charter of the united nations, and morocco is not listed as an administering power of the territory in the united nations’ list of non-self-governing territories – this is point 7 of the opinion of the united nations legal adviser – agreements can be concluded with the kingdom of morocco concerning the exploitation of natural resources of western sahara. the interpretation given by the un legal adviser recognises the competence of morocco to conclude these types of agreements and in this way implies that morocco is a de facto administrative power of the territory of western sahara; the mandate given to the commission by the council was to negotiate with the kingdom of morocco. in the framework of these agreements, international law seeks to assure the right of peoples and nations to use and dispose of the natural resources in their territories. in that respect, the agreements are considered compatible with the charter obligation of the administering power and in conformity with the general assembly resolution and the principle of permanent sovereignty of natural resources enshrined therein, if the exploitation of the resources in non-self-governing territories is considered for the benefit of the peoples of those territories, on their behalf or in consultation with their representatives. in that respect, morocco is under an obligation to take all appropriate measures to ensure the full application of the ec-morocco fisheries partnership agreement in accordance with the obligations of international law. may i say in response to mrs sudre’s and mr kristensen’s concerns that the agreement itself already guarantees certain benefits for the local population. in particular with regard to industrial pelagic fishery, which is focused on stock c, the agreement foresees the obligation to land 25% of captures. the main purpose of this provision is to contribute to the better supply of pelagic fish to the transformation industry that has in recent years suffered from irregular and short supplies of raw material. additional economic incentives are therefore foreseen to encourage pelagic vessels to land a bigger part of their catches, more than the obligatory 25%, in the local ports in the south. in addition to the above-mentioned landing obligation, the agreement also makes stipulations regarding services and infrastructure activities in the local ports in the south. that provides for additional earnings and contributes to development of these ports. the agreement also ensures additional support for the development of the coastal area through the following financial measures. the agreement sets an amount of at least eur 4.75 million per year for the modernisation and upgrading of the coastal fleet. the agreement also specifies that part of the financial contribution should be used, among others, for the restructuring of small-scale fishing, training and support of professional organisations. the industrial pelagic fishery is under the obligation to land 25% of all catches in the local ports. this obligation has been inserted into the agreement in order to support the development of the local fishing industry, which suffers from an irregular or insufficient supply of raw material.
we'll try to get the council here. we'll do our best between now and then. you are right to say that there is little point in pursuing this item of the agenda as planned if we do not have the council present. we will make one last effort and if it proves futile, we will consider how to proceed, but let us not lose hope, which is the last thing to be lost.
the first item on today's agenda is the commission statement on the commission's contributions to the june 2006 european council: a project for citizens, delivering results for europe, the reflection period and the 'plan d'.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, honourable members, the first message i would like to deliver today is that the commission is listening to citizens. we want to base our actions on and deliver on their expectations and concerns. listening is at the very heart of plan d. the commission has implemented a series of activities to stimulate the debate in all member states and has given support to those countries which requested it. we can draw some important lessons from the national debates, which are fully supported by the eurobarometer surveys. firstly, citizens are concerned about the high rate of unemployment and the negative effects of globalisation. this is no surprise to most of us. social protection is at the very core of the debates and the request for comparable living standards is high almost everywhere. enlargement is the second predominant issue. more and more citizens question, if not the principle itself, the scope and pace of future accessions. we need to show that enlargement does not happen by default and why it is necessary. the third lesson we can draw is that europeans want more not less europe. but they want to see results and to be more involved in the policy process. they perceive the union as an entity that can protect them. they are asking for more security, as well a higher level of environmental protection, food safety and a more stable energy supply. the commission intends to respond to these concerns. that is why we have adopted a citizens’ agenda for europe. we are not suggesting a completely new strategy. our work remains rooted in the three building stones of prosperity, solidarity and security, with a continued emphasis on jobs and growth, in line with the lisbon strategy. we are, however, focusing to a greater extent on citizens.what do we propose? deeper economic integration should go hand in hand with solidarity. europe is not just a marketplace; it also has a social dimension. next year, we will therefore launch an agenda for access and solidarity. we have also discussed the idea of an ‘entitlement card’, to facilitate citizens’ full access to their rights and to make these rights more visible. we will also continue to implement the sustainable development agenda. in addition, we will launch a comprehensive review of the single market, to be completed next year. the single market has brought huge benefits for citizens, but it is still unfinished business in the areas of energy, banking charges and roaming fees, for instance. we need to remove the remaining barriers. european citizens rightly expect europe to be a fair and safe place to live in. but europe is not always capable of combating terrorism and organised crime. the existing decision-making tools create undue delays and, even more regrettably, do not ensure proper democratic scrutiny. the commission proposes improving the decision-making process in these areas. we can do that by using the provisions of the current treaties. before addressing the institutional questions, i would like to mention two more areas where further action is proposed. while honouring our commitments on enlargement, we must not lose broad public support for this important part of the eu project. the commission will take forward the debate on enlargement and its added value, and this will be part of the commission’s enlargement strategy report, to be submitted in the autumn. last but not least, the commission is willing to improve the coherence and efficiency of the european union’s action in the international arena. we will present concrete proposals next week. in all of our actions, our commitment to subsidiarity, openness and transparency, as well as our efforts towards better regulation, will be vigorously pursued. we will seek to involve national parliaments more in the process of policy formulation. however, the commission’s main interlocutor remains the european parliament. let me now turn to the institutional issues. five countries that had not ratified the constitution before the start of the period of reflection have now done so. furthermore, estonia’s parliament voted in favour of the constitution on 9 may, which brings the number of countries to have ratified to 15. we are pleased that finland, which will hold the incoming presidency, is also planning to ratify the constitution. we welcome the new ratifications. they show that member states are attached to the principles and values of the constitution. we have to listen to the views and the positions of the countries which said ‘no’, but it is equally important to listen to the voices of those who say ‘yes’. i hope that there is no misunderstanding among us on the following point. the commission continues to endorse the principles and improvements the constitution would bring. the constitution would definitely make the union more effective, more open and more democratic. this is natural for a constitution where parliamentarians were the majority voice. of course we would like to see the constitutional treaty ratified in all 25 member states. we stand with parliament on this. many options have been floated on how to overcome the current deadlock. many ideas are being discussed. yet no consensus exists on the way forward. is the time ripe for a solution to be presented? to use wording that is familiar to us, is it now time to work on the text or still time to work on the context? we need to rebuild a climate of confidence and trust. we need to reconnect with citizens and prove, with firm results, that the union can address citizens’ needs and aspirations. let me be clear: delivering results for citizens through key policies is not an alternative to tackling the institutional issues. it is part of a twin-track approach, where progress on one track makes it easier to move ahead on the other. we propose that, next year, the three institutions should jointly adopt a declaration. this should serve as a basis for european council decisions on a process leading to a future comprehensive institutional settlement. i see the declaration as firm proof of member states’, parliament’s and the commission’s firm will to solve the constitutional deadlock. i expect the european parliament to play an important role here. like you, i hope that together we can achieve a constitutional settlement by the 2009 european elections. the listening exercise proved to be successful and should continue. plan d was not a one-off operation. i have promised the commission that after the june summit i will address what our next steps should be – if you wish, the second phase of plan d. our citizens’ agenda will demonstrate the added value of the union and thus help to restore citizens’ confidence. it is by reconnecting with citizens that we can create the conditions for a future comprehensive institutional settlement. looking forward to the debate with you today, i would like to thank the political group chairmen for their contribution to the commission’s policy formulation. (applause)
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the european union, which is a very important document. we therefore encourage you to go ahead. you have said that we are going to move to a second phase of the 'plan d'; we are going to make a proposal to you from the european people's group: let us not call it further reflection, because a reflection which is too long can give the impression that it is a nap and that we do not do much more; let us call it analysis, because i think that what comes after the analysis is the proposal and that is what you are aiming at with the joint declaration of the three institutions. i think it is a good idea, mrs wallström, that the three institutions should make this joint declaration, because it means, firstly, that we are marking the anniversary of the treaties of rome, which are the starting point of these communities, but it also means that the council, the commission and parliament together want to make proposals to get out of the situation in which the constitutional treaty is. so you can count on this european parliament for that institutional declaration, but counting means that we want to participate in the drafting of it, we do not want to simply put our signature at the end. i think that the fact that the ratification process of the constitution has continued in estonia and that the finnish parliament has decided to ratify it is good news, which belies all those who say that the constitution is dead. nobody ratifies something that's dead. now, it seems to me that the effort we have to make at the moment - and when i say effort, i know it is not easy what i am asking for - is to convince the european citizens of what we can call the cost of non-constitution. you will recall that many years ago, when the single act was being discussed, there was a report, also sponsored by the european union, entitled 'the cost of non-europe', that is to say, what would it cost the people if the single act did not come into force, if there was no common internal market. i think that what we have to do in this debate on the constitutional treaty is something similar: to explain to people, by means of examples, what the deficit is in their lives because of the absence of a european constitution. i think that is a good task, certainly, for that second phase of analysis, because it can lead to proposals which, in the end, will serve us for what we all want - the commission, the council and this parliament - that europe be an added value for the people, that europe defend common values and that europe, in the end, make people's lives more efficient, more just, more free and more solidary.
mr president, i believe that the period of reflection and debate, which has hitherto been a period of reflection and silence, is now beginning in earnest. and it begins with the parliamentary forum which we held last week in brussels and which was a real success. and it is encouraged by the decision of estonia, by the announcement of finland, by the statement of the irish prime minister, by mrs merkel's speech to the bundestag and by the words of president napolitano, who yesterday, in his inauguration, clearly said that there is no alternative to the european constituent process. all these factors, commissioner, but not precisely mr barroso's words, encourage him. mr barroso must be able to assume the political leadership of a president of the european commission who participated in the drafting of the constitution and who is in favour of that constitution. the opposite is unbelievable. i read your communication to the council yesterday very carefully. to be honest, it would be more fun for any citizen to read the first and second parts of the constitution, which are certainly more understandable, than that document. with all his goodwill, no one understands him. what is your objective? what's your destiny? solemn declarations next year: we must make the europe of projects in the face of a project of europe. no, there is no europe of projects, but a project of europe, and that project is the constitution. the aim must be to bring it into force in good time, i.e. with the necessary changes and in a different political context, but without losing the north.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the transport of goods by road in europe will grow by more than 60% between now and 2013 and will double by 2020 in the new member states. in addition to the congestion this will cause, it will have a major impact on our environment: what we call 'external costs'. the commission estimates that for every euro spent on this programme, a multiplier effect of six euros in savings on these external costs will be achieved. we are therefore not satisfied with the cut in the budget of eur 740 million requested by the commission for this programme in the new financial perspective for 2007-13. we shall support the proposal and the transaction amendments which mr rack has worked so hard to secure, but we would have liked to have also allowed projects which, whether or not they transport goods by other means, would have reduced road congestion substantially, simply. we would also have liked to have had even lower minimum thresholds for the indicative amounts per euro of subsidy, so that more small and mediumsized enterprises could have access to the programme's aid. we are also glad that the criterion of the volume of cargo has been taken into account when assessing the results of the aided measures, because what causes pollution and congestion is not the weight of the goods themselves but the volume they occupy and, consequently, the number of lorries needed to transport them. we are also pleased that measures carried out in one member state are eligible for aid, provided that they improve crossborder traffic with other member states by at least 50%. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods by road is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in the area of road transport.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the commission on its excellent proposal and the rapporteur and the other members for improving it in an exemplary and cooperative way and in early agreement with the council. i would also like to congratulate ourselves as the european union on the existence and improved continuity of this marco polo programme, which is achieving some real results in an efficient, perhaps too discreet, way of working. i value their achievements over other programmes and projects because, among other things, their actions are small in size but with great added value in return. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. finally, i would like to emphasize its strong capacity to promote innovative measures and policies. as regards the addition of motorways of the sea, i cannot fail to mention the example of the successful relationship between valencia and the italian coast or the avoidance of traffic through the integration of logistics, and these days we have learned how a company like mercadona - which is now reaching ratios similar to carrefour in spain - is considering with renfe a definitive transfer of trucks to trains. that seems to us also an example driven by these types of programmes. in conclusion, i would like to express two wishes: from the experience of marco polo i and this improvement of marco polo ii, and in view of the review of the white paper on transport, i hope that the successes and achievements of this programme will help us to maintain the firm commitment to the modal transfer from the road to more sustainable modes and in this, logistics will obviously be the key. i hope that the successes and the marco polo formulae will be incorporated into the thinking on transeuropean networks, which ultimately pursue the same objective, albeit in an xxl format which sometimes makes this difficult.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is very honoured to have you here today and the massive attendance at this plenary session is proof of that. i would like to thank him for returning to strasbourg so quickly after his frustrated visit when events in march caused him to interrupt his presence in strasbourg. from then on you have been in the eye of the storm, because in the middle east the storm is still alive, and these weeks and months are and will be decisive for the future of the palestinian people, as well as for the israeli people, and will also have a very important impact on the whole region and, consequently, on the european union. mr president, all of us here want to do everything possible to promote a viable peace process, fully aware that if we do not act correctly, we risk seeing the world plunged into a period of holy wars, of religious wars, anticipated by the election of potentially aggressive parties throughout the middle east. that is why, mr president abbas, the european parliament wants to hear from you: because of your great experience and your long record of constantly seeking to end the conflict through dialogue with the adversary. no one in europe has forgotten that since the 1970s you have been leading the way in negotiating peace, long before most of your people were even prepared to accept it. you negotiated the principles of peace with matiyahu peled in 1977, and those agreements pointed the way to a solution based on coexistence between two states. you led the negotiating team in oslo, you were the person who signed those agreements on behalf of the plo and, after your election as president last year, you have sought to relaunch the peace process by bringing about a truce between the armed groups in the territories. no one can therefore have the slightest doubt about their commitment to peace and their willingness to negotiate on the basis of international law and respect for agreements already reached. and you have the legitimacy of having been elected by 62% of the palestinian electorate on the basis of this commitment. then came the legislative elections in january, which were a further opportunity for the palestinian people to demonstrate their firm commitment to democracy, but at the same time the results of these elections, which europe fully respects and recognises, have raised serious concerns in the international community. the international community, however, is beginning to realise the dangers of suspending aid to the palestinian people. the quartet meeting last week gave the european union the responsibility to find a mechanism to channel aid to the palestinian territories and thus at least maintain essential public services. the plenary session of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, which i had the honour of chairing until a month ago, has also made an appeal - and the bureau of that assembly reiterated this again last week in tunisia - in view of the situation of chaos which may result from the lack of international financial support and also from the illegal withholding of customs duties to which the palestinian people are entitled. mr president, you have the opportunity to speak to the representatives of the peoples of europe on all these subjects, and you can do so knowing - as we all know - that you are the only actor capable of speaking to all the parties involved at the same time. you are the umbilical cord that can still lead us from conflict to peace, and that is why we are so interested in hearing your proposals and helping you to find the way through these difficult times. you have the floor. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the palestinian authority president abbas spoke arabic. this is a translation.. in the name of god the merciful, the beneficent; mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first to express my gratitude for the invitation. it is an honour to address this assembly, which represents a unique success story for the peoples of the europe; a story that contains various lessons that can be used as a paragon for many countries and peoples across the world. when i speak to you today, i convey the message of the palestinian people to the peoples of a continent we have always been linked to with relations of neighbourliness and as a result of our historical links of cooperation and friendship and partnership and association in numerous sectors. we would like to launch this cooperation through fruitful dialogue between civilisations and cultures which can enrich both sides of the mediterranean and help all of us to defuse extremist views in order to ensure that our historically close links continue, and for us to be able to achieve peace in the mediterranean area. as i speak to you today, i realise that i am addressing legislators who are very familiar with our problems, and many of whom have been eyewitnesses to the problems and the suffering of the palestinian people during visits to our country. only yesterday, the palestinian people commemorated the 58th anniversary of the palestinian nakba in 1948, which represented the historical injustice when we, the palestinian people, were uprooted from our land, forced into a diaspora; when many of us were displaced and forced to become refugees. throughout the political course and national struggle of the palestinian people under the leadership of the palestine liberation organization, and following the establishment of the palestinian national authority in 1994 in the aftermath of signing the declaration of principles, the desire for a major, effective and active european role has always been a fundamental pillar in palestinian policy and diplomacy. our people have never forgotten the positive positions adopted by numerous european countries since the early 1970s in support of the palestinian people’s rights and its national liberation movement led by the palestine liberation organization. our people have not forgotten either the european countries’ generous political, financial and technical support for building palestinian institutions and a national assembly, and in helping us to deal with the consequences of the policies of occupation, besiegement and destruction. this support has strengthened our people’s confidence in the justice of our cause and in international law. at this point in time, another difficult time, we are quite logically looking to europe, in that our region is open to all options, and that is why we seek and are waiting for europe to play a leading role in the area. despite the horror of the historical injustice inflicted upon our people, we have always been able to formulate a realistic policy to restore the rights of our people to self-determination. in early stages, european capitals were places where secret, semi-secret and public meetings between plo officials and israeli activists from the peace camp took place. it was in a european capital, oslo, that the first official contacts took place between the plo and the israeli government. the initial signature of the first agreement in history between the two sides in 1993 also took place in oslo, before its official signing in washington that same year. when the palestine national council approved in 1998 the palestinian peace initiative and accepted united nations security council resolutions 242 and 338, it offered an opportunity to achieve a historical reconciliation. i must honestly say that this was not easy for our people. but here i must recall the role played by our historical leader yasser arafat. it took courage to take these decisions; it took courage to put forward a peace formula enjoying the support of our people on the basis of establishing a palestinian state on only 22% of the land of historical palestine, which represents the land occupied by israel in 1967. following the establishment of the palestinian authority, we have continued our intensive search for peace. we repeatedly emphasised that the core of the process had to be based on the principle of partnership, a partnership committed to agreement and to the resolution of problems imposed by the legacy of a long, bitter and bloody conflict; a partnership that understood the legitimate concerns of the other and that could lay the foundations for a new and different future for both palestinians and israelis. the severest blow to the peace process, which was supposed to have reached its final stages within a few short years, was a result of the israeli rejection of the logic of partnership and its insistence on practising destructive policies, particularly on building settlements, constructing walls and confiscating land to create a reality on the ground that would prejudice and pre-empt the outcome of negotiations. the abandonment of commitments and agreements and the rejection of international patronage have become a main feature of israeli policy, and have resulted in the loss of momentum of the peace process and the consequent shaking of people’s belief in its usefulness. this policy has developed in recent years to the level of attempting to completely destroy the palestinian national authority and its institutions, and to the systematic destruction of our basic infrastructure, which your countries contributed in developing. for our part, and despite the state of frustration and suffering of an extent that i am sure you will realise and appreciate – particularly those of you who have witnessed it closely – we have been careful not to allow our national struggle to be diverted from its course and to make sure that it has complied with international law. we have rejected and condemned all attacks against civilians. we have rejected terrorism in all its forms. we have emphasised the importance of building a culture of peace instead of a culture of war, and we have done everything peaceful that we could to resist occupation. (loud applause) sixteen months ago, the occupied palestinian territory observed presidential elections after the death of president arafat, in which i stood with a clear platform: to declare a truce and emphasise that negotiations were the only way to resolve the conflict. i also wanted to introduce a policy of reform in various fields, to strengthen democracy, to achieve a period of calm, to foster security, and to promote the rule of law. i am proud that the palestinian people trusted me with this task. our work started immediately, with the agreement of all the groups and factions, who agreed to respect this truce. it was the first time in years we had seen an almost complete halt in armed attacks by palestinians. but our israeli counterpart responded with the continued construction of the apartheid wall in the west bank that divides our territories into scattered cantons. it has continued with its assassinations, arrests and military incursions into our towns, villages and refugee camps. it has continued its tightened and suffocating sieges; it has continued to reject agreements and understandings, including the understanding reached in sharm al-sheikh after the presidential elections in palestine. and in spite of all this, we agreed to israel’s plan to withdraw from the gaza strip. we ensured that it was implemented smoothly and calmly, and proved our ability to assume our own security responsibilities, especially in the border areas where monitors from the european union have assisted us in ensuring the proper functioning of the first border crossing in history that is fully administered by palestinians. the israeli policy of rejecting our extended hand, of rejecting the opportunity of negotiating and giving peace a chance, has increased the frustration of our people. israel’s policy has also exacerbated the deteriorating economic conditions in palestine, and has made movement between one town and another long and dangerous because of checkpoints spread throughout jerusalem and the west bank. these checkpoints oppress and humiliate individuals who only want to lead normal lives, reach their places of work and their fields, travel to their hospitals and universities, take their children to schools or go to mosques and churches. the frustration and disappointment created by the practices of the israeli occupation and the absence of a positive outlook for the peace process formed the background for the legislative elections that took place last january. the whole world witnessed how the transfer of power was smoothly and democratically implemented, and how we established the foundations and the tradition of a democratic process that we have no choice but to follow. we would reiterate once again that democracy remains without soul in the absence of people’s freedom and in the continued occupation. over the past four months, we have been going through an unprecedented situation. the declared platform of the party that won the elections and formed the government does not conform to my platform and the commitments and prior agreements of the palestinian authority. our approach to dealing with this situation is underpinned by the same principles that led us to carry out elections on time. we are addressing this problem inside our institutions and in accordance with our laws and regulations. the political activity in palestine over the last few months is gradually producing a public opinion that emphasises respect for the agreements and commitments undertaken by the palestinian authority, and commitments to international law. i have asked the new government to amend its platform in order to conform to these international commitments. we are in a constant and continued dialogue that will take us to an expanded national dialogue in just a few days’ time. i hope that this will lead us to the required process of amendment. our approach needs the support of the international community. the new government must be given the chance to adapt to the basic requirements of the international community. stopping assistance to the palestinian authority, cutting aid to the palestinian authority, will only further exacerbate the deteriorating economic and social situation in the country, and will weaken the network of efficient and working government ministries, administrations and institutions that the countries of the european union played a vital role in building and developing in the first place. here, i would like to take the opportunity to thank the quartet for its latest decision to resume providing assistance to the palestinian people on the basis of a mechanism that will be developed under eu leadership. in that regard, we call upon israel to fully release our tax and customs revenue immediately. the european union can play a leading role here, and we would ask for your assistance in ensuring that israel fully releases the tax and customs duties that are owing to us immediately. (loud applause) the israeli government is yet again repeating the slogan ‘no palestinian partner’. you will recall that the israeli government used this slogan in the past as an excuse to abandon agreements and to refuse to return to the negotiating table. we are gravely concerned for the future of peace in our region as we hear about israeli projects that aim to draw the final borders of israel inside occupied palestinian territory. these projects will foreclose any possibility of implementing the two-state solution because they will annex large portions of occupied palestinian territory and will turn that which remains into scattered islands that lack geographical contiguity and vital water resources – water resources that the israelis wish to claim as their own. this attempt to implement unilateral projects will destroy any remaining hope of reviving the peace process. it will also lead to another bitter period of tension and conflict, for which peoples in this region have already – for decades – paid a heavy price. the claim that there is no palestinian partner or counterpart has no basis. i reiterate that, based on the constitutional power granted to me by our basic law, which entrusts the plo executive committee, its president and its negotiations affairs department with the responsibility of negotiation, we remain fully committed to returning immediately to the negotiating table to reach an agreement to end this long conflict. that is a fact i stressed when i spoke to ehud olmert by phone to congratulate him on taking office a few days ago. during that conversation, i stressed our true desire to immediately return to the negotiating table to negotiate peace. the whole world demands this of us, and we ask that the international community act immediately to support us, in order to prevent the region from sliding into an abyss and a new cycle of conflict that will have a negative impact not just on the middle east, but on the world as a whole at a time when the region is experiencing other tensions too. we want action based on international law and the roadmap. we want negotiations between partners as an alternative to the israeli policy of unilateralism, diktat and the negation of the other side. all of this is extremely important for us, because it is only through negotiations that we can in fact unify people in our region, while providing them with the principles of peace, development and modernisation that we share with the people of europe. i once again thank you for this invitation and for your hospitality. i believe that i have just spoken before friends who share with us the dedication to promote the values of freedom, democracy, tolerance and dialogue. i am confident that you will continue to support the just cause of the palestinian people until we gain our freedom and build an independent state in the holy land on the basis of the 1967 borders with the state of israel. thank you for listening to me. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
thank you very much, mr. president. you have seen how attentively the european parliament has listened to your speech. their last words are also our own, for we remain committed to the two-state solution. i am also sure that his words will have served to encourage many members to devote more time and thought to the problem of the middle east. since your failed attempt to be here we have not voted any new resolution on this, but we have had many discussions. the one which will take place next in the conference of presidents will also serve to enable parliament to define its positions on its conflict better. thank you again, mr president, and we wish you and your people all the best. (applause from the right)
in writing. the spanish socialist delegation welcomes the adoption of this report, which will make it possible to reconcile the various requirements of health protection and correct information to the consumer with the claim that industry will not bear excessive costs. however, we would like to make it clear that our intention was to vote in favour of amendment no 49, which has finally fallen, because we consider that it is an amendment of particular importance for the spanish socialist delegation, because of what it means for fermented beverages of agricultural origin (beer and wine) and food use in a country like spain.
the next item is the commission statement on the report on the progress made by bulgaria and romania in the enlargement process.
mr president, commissioner, i will read the report you have just outlined to us carefully, but let me make a few preliminary remarks on romania. firstly, you acknowledge the important progress made in the reform of the judicial system and the fight against corruption. while it points out that efforts must be maintained, it seems to me that this is no longer an area of serious concern, as was said earlier. this was a really priority area, where we all now recognise that the progress made in romania has been very remarkable and we should celebrate it. you have pointed out to us, mr rehn, that there are four areas of serious concern regarding the acquis. this is the case, for example, in certain agricultural and veterinary matters. in any case, these are areas in which i know the romanian authorities are working seriously, as i had the opportunity to see two weeks ago when i visited bucharest with a delegation from my group. as i said in the plenary session of 26 april, i was personally in favour of clarifying the time horizon for accession as soon as possible, so that the governments concerned would be able to escape from uncertainty as quickly as possible. however, i see that the commission, while recognising that romania is working properly towards the 2007 objective, prefers to wait, out of strictness, out of prudence, until autumn to confirm whether effective accession should take place in january 2007, as i wish. i am convinced that the romanian authorities will maintain their line of firm commitment to the common objective for 2007. in the october 2005 report, the commission mentioned a large number of areas - you reminded us that 14 of them - which concerned seven chapters of the acquis and were of serious concern. well, i now understand that these areas have been reduced to four, as you have told us, and they affect very few chapters. progress is therefore evident. and with these precedents, with the serious europeanism of the romanian authorities, i believe they will pay the utmost attention to its recommendations. and i am sure that you will be able to confirm to us in the autumn, without further conditions, the date of 1 january 2007 for accession. i'm a very optimistic man. finally, i would also encourage those parliaments which have not yet done so to speed up the ratification of the accession treaty as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, twenty years ago we, like the bulgarians and romanians today, were speeding up the negotiations for spain's integration into the communities. i remember our efforts to conform to the treaties and i remember the humiliation, in the face of obstacles, of those responsible who even then seemed much less committed to the project than we were. but above all, i remember the solidarity of many, their respect and understanding. a few years later, with this experience and as president of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, i strongly supported the accession of bulgaria and romania to the council as the first step in the process which will now culminate in their integration into the european union. the commission presents us with a generally positive report, but it acknowledges some shortcomings. that is the commission's role. the parliament, as the union's eminently political body, must be another. as representatives of our peoples, we have a responsibility to understand and support those in bulgaria and romania; to understand their difficulties and, by confirming their accession date for 1 january 2007, to help them to ensure that the identified shortcomings are gradually addressed. our role is above all to understand that in bulgaria and romania there are two peoples with deep europeanist convictions, much more than in most member states, and that we therefore need them very much if the european union project that is embodied in the constitution is to go ahead. nothing would be more negative than to frustrate aspirations, to sow confusion and mistrust and to make romanians and bulgarians feel mistreated and discriminated against. because we need them and because they are going to be the best among us, parliament must massively support their incorporation on the date set. it is the approach of my socialist group, which is par excellence supportive, and that of the spanish socialists, taking account of our own experience and the hopes and commitments which we share with the bulgarians and romanians.
member of the commission. no, but i can give you an idea of the consequence: if we were to reduce the ceiling to 0.1%, it would have dramatic consequences for organic producers. it would be so expensive that, in my judgement, the availability of organic products to the consumer would be reduced dramatically, because the price would be out of proportion to the price the consumer is prepared to pay. to give you a clear figure is simply impossible, but we have calculated and made it clear that if anyone did wish to reduce the ceiling to 0.1%, that would have a serious impact on the survival of organic farmers.
member of the commission. before allowing the import or the growing of any gm product, the european food safety authority has to have the possibility to go through all the details – both from a health point of view and from an environmental point of view – to calculate the risk or the consequences for either health or the environment. so, from my point of view these two areas are covered by all efsa’s efforts to try to have the ruling in place before allowing either import or growing.
member of the commission. we all know that the international roaming prices are very high. parliament and the national regulatory authorities have drawn our attention to that fact several times. they have called for action at eu level to solve the problem, and rightly so, because the high roaming costs prevent citizens and businesses conducting cross-border activities from benefiting fully from the internal market. as a first step, in october 2005 i launched a website to provide consumers with transparency on prices. at the same time i publicly declared that six months later i would benchmark the progress. should there not be a drastic price reduction, i would regulate. in march 2006 we compared the roaming prices to their level of autumn 2005. we saw that in 19 member states the prices were more or less stable, in four member states they had gone up. on that basis i announced a regulation and we started public consultation. the public consultation came to an end on 12 may. we had 150 contributions. my services and i are now analysing those contributions, and will draw our conclusions and present them together with an impact assessment before summer 2006. at the same time, in july, the commission will present a draft regulation. i have noticed that in the meantime, understanding that the commission will act, some market players have announced price reductions. that is a very interesting move and is in the interests of our consumers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for this initiative - i did so when i prepared the question - and also for the explanations she has given us, which demonstrate the degree of interest and concern that this subject really arouses. i would like to stress here the need to implement this regulation as soon as possible. you have already explained this, but i think it is a very important question, particularly in the context of promoting european mobility, labour mobility and general mobility. i hope that this regulation will be published as soon as possible.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate mr rosati, because i think he has made an excellent report, which has taken up the points made by the other political groups. i want to focus my speech tonight on the relationship between the public deficit and economic growth. the commissioner has given us more recent information. i would nevertheless like to describe the public deficit situation in the european union as worrying: 2.4 per cent on average is better than 2.9 per cent, but it is still worrying. because the reality is that the european union europe is the region of the world, including the less developed areas of the world, that has the least growth in international economic expansion. and so europe is not doing its homework and not doing what it should be doing in terms of balancing the international economy. and that has a lot to do with the position of government deficits and that has been pointed out by other speakers tonight, such as mr karas or mr hoppenstedt, who have said that in a european economy suffering from a lack of domestic demand, government deficits are a cause, they are not an effect, and therefore we must insist that we have to improve the mechanisms of the european union to improve confidence and ultimately to raise income levels in the european union. it has the capacity to do so and its problem is that the growth potential is so excessively low, so incomparably low. we are the area of the world with the least potential for growth and that is the problem. and that is solved, indeed, by structural reforms and also, of course, by sound public finances, by political will to contain public expenditure to the point of making it financially viable, so that european citizens pay reasonable and modern taxes.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the economic policies of the member states are a matter of common interest. the oversight of its public finances is essential to ensure that it meets its commitments, which are stronger in the euro area, and achieves its shared objectives. i congratulate mr rosati because his report identifies the main problems of public finances and offers valuable guidelines for dealing with them and improving their evolution. the situation is worrying, but 'as the commissioner has said' the turning point may have occurred in 2005. until then, the public debt ratio had only increased since the physical circulation of the euro. five euro-zone members are still under the excessive deficit procedure and the european economy is indeed growing at a slower pace than the most advanced countries. part of the success can be attributed to the reform of the stability and growth pact, because it has brought rationality. setting medium-term budgetary objectives, taking into account the situation of each country and its cyclical and sustainability conditions, provides a more coherent fiscal environment and better incentives for structural reforms that raise growth potential. it is important that budgetary procedures have a uniform timetable, respond to common economic magnitudes and are based on unitary assumptions that improve statistical management. it is also necessary to use a cyclically adjusted budget concept, as proposed by the rapporteur. it does not seem that public investment should be subject to stricter rules than private investment, so it is reasonable for the council to investigate the authorisation of investments for objectives defined in the lisbon strategy, which are amortised in a similar period to business accounts, and it is also important to make progress on sustainability. in this connection, i consider it important to draw up national reports on viability and public finances, based on common elements.
ladies and gentlemen, today, 17 may, is the international day against homophobia. i would remind you that last january our parliament adopted a resolution on homophobia in europe. in accordance with this text, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs is organising this afternoon a seminar entitled 'ending hatred'. i think it would be good if the honourable members could contribute to the success of this seminar by attending if possible, because, although we all proclaim our will to fight all forms of discrimination, reality shows that in practice discrimination still exists, that freedoms are not yet fully guaranteed and that exclusion often breeds violence. i would like to congratulate the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on this initiative.
thank you, mrs schierhuber, for informing us of these events. the secretariat will immediately contact parliament's security services and i ask you to contact them yourself so that appropriate measures can be taken to prevent a repetition of these events.
it is not the time to open a debate on this, unless you ask for a change of the agenda. we will deal with this matter in a practical way through parliament's security services.
mrs schierhuber, i see that you are asking for the floor, but you will understand that we cannot turn the house into a place where we can clarify all the incidents that occur in parliament. i will give you the floor for the last time, but from now on, please, when you want to deal with a matter of this nature, deal with it through the regulatory procedures.
i ask the secretary-general to call a meeting with the security services and there you can explain what you think is appropriate. if mr martin has anything to add, he will also be called to that meeting so that appropriate action can be taken and that this kind of incident, which is not the first time it has happened, is not repeated.
mr president, i would like to refer to the minutes of monday's sitting, specifically to the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance, which include the speech of a member of this house who discredits this house and a member state, namely spain. the spanish people's party has once again used this parliament as a trench to shoot lies at the spanish government, accusing one of its ministers of attacking spanish democracy. he also announced that he would take these lies and denunciations to the commission and the council. i would like to remind the spanish citizen who lives in a state of law with institutions and procedures that function perfectly and that walking around the european institutions with a suitcase full of lies, resentments and national political anxieties is not the best way to exercise his mandate as a european parliamentarian... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr moreno, your intervention is not a question of order or of the minutes. the interventions on the minutes serve to point out that the minutes do not reflect what has been said, not to express your opinion on whether what has been said is relevant or not. i do not think that the president-in-office is entitled to speak if there is no error in the minutes and if the minutes accurately reflect what has been said here.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by mr reimer böge, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management [2004/2099 (aci) ] (a6-0150/2006) and - the report by mr sérgio sousa pinto, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management [2006/2028 (aci) ] (a6-0144/2006).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. mr president, i would like to point out that the european fisheries sector needs sufficient resources both to continue with the commitments it has made to the sector and to continue defending the new policy we have imposed on ourselves - the development of sustainable fisheries - especially when the european fisheries policy mainly affects areas outside the convergence objective in which many of the regions that suffer most acutely from the crises that periodically affect this sector are located and which therefore continue to need community support. the final agreement on the financial perspective is not what we would have wanted for this policy, for fisheries, but it does, and i have to admit it, represent the minimum necessary to be able to vote in favour. we cannot ignore the fact that there have been reductions in the initial proposal, so that an extremely efficient use of the funds available will be required and, i would like to remind you that this is a time of special work for the directorate-general for fisheries, a time when commissioner borg has also been given the task of developing, setting up, a new maritime policy in the european union. in the case of fisheries, ladies and gentlemen, we are still awaiting the adoption of the implementing regulations, and i therefore ask the council to adopt the european fisheries fund regulation as soon as possible, so that the member states can draw up their programmes as quickly as possible and plan their expenditure in the most efficient way. i ask the commission to make the necessary efforts to keep the policy of international agreements alive and well and to make the best possible use of these funds in order to achieve an efficient and competitive fisheries sector in europe. finally, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr böge, on his excellent work, and i also think that the work done by the temporary committee is very good. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, my group will vote in favour of the agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-13 by a majority, given our sense of responsibility. we want the new members to be able to start using the structural and cohesion funds fully from next year, to promote their growth and real economic convergence with the union's more prosperous regions. the agreement is not very generous, but we are sure that it can be a useful instrument in these first years of accession, not only for the economic development of these regions, but also to show the europeans of the new member states that one of the hallmarks of our europe is solidarity. nor do we want to add a budgetary crisis to the political crisis the union is going through, created not only by the negative votes on the constitution but also by the campaigns to discredit the integration process, which are being so successful in some countries. these are, in my view, the basic reasons why we are voting in favour. but our desire to build a stronger, more united and fairer europe raises serious doubts about the appropriateness of a positive vote. we do not like these financial perspectives as a whole, they are not what europe needs at the beginning of the 21st century; they are insufficient and are drowned out by so-called national interests. the leaders of our countries seem to have forgotten that the construction of europe is a game of positive sums. so far, everyone has benefited from the construction of europe. there are no net taxpayers; this deep-rooted concept is nothing but a fallacy of bad accountants. this time, gentlemen of the council, we will give our approval, but we will soon see each other again. as you can see in any document, we talked about the revision in 2009. if you do not propose solutions that are valid for the union in the short term, we will have to impose them.
mr president, the european parliament has given its full confidence to reimer böge to negotiate a package of financial perspectives acceptable to the european union. the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, which is being put to the vote today, brings great advances in budgetary discipline and parliament's budgetary rights. the question is whether these improvements will make up for the serious shortfalls in the figures. the european parliament's negotiating position expressed in the resolution of june 2004 was the last compromise that was really acceptable to the political groups and that is why we unanimously approved it. since then, we have only had bad news from the council: a bad negotiation, a failure, in the luxembourg era, and another negotiation in the british era, which ended with an agreement that everyone considers insufficient. the european parliament and our rapporteur have since embarked on an impossible battle: to raise the figures to acceptable levels in order to maintain a positive momentum in the union and its programmes. it could not be and the final round of interinstitutional meetings has brought about a final result virtually identical to that indicated by the european council, with 1% of the budget, which is what the charter of the six originally wanted, and with negative consequences for cohesion and rural development. surprisingly, the presidents most affected by this reduction, particularly my own, did little to prevent this failure. the final decision on the vote is in the hands of the parliamentary groups and the national delegations, which will in any case draw the conclusions they consider positive for the future of the union. my group will vote in favour of these financial perspectives. i would like to conclude by saying what everyone says about our rapporteur, mr reimer böge: if we had to appoint a rapporteur for the negotiations again, we would have to appoint our colleague mr reimer böge a thousand times over. if it hadn't been for him, the deal would have been a lot worse.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. as president of the council, i should like to thank you very much for this overwhelming vote. think back to the past. a year ago, we had the big crisis. we have failed with a financial proposal from the luxembourg presidency, which was not very far from what we have agreed today. i would also like to thank jean-claude juncker, who deserved to have this day in his presidency. (applause from the centre) we solved this crisis in partnership. the european parliament has not only shown its teeth, but has simply put forward concrete proposals and ideas. we now have 70% more money for the lisbon agenda competitiveness objectives in total with the new financial perspective for seven years, but we also have 60% more for smes in particular, and hundreds of thousands more students can benefit from the erasmus programme than in the last seven years. i am particularly pleased that we have included the cost of enlargement. we will provide a total of 160 billion euros over the next seven years, including bulgaria and romania, which is twice the amount of money that the post-war marshall plan provided for the whole of europe. parliament can be proud of this decision, but perhaps the cost of accession of the ten members should have been included at the outset, so that we could have made this financial perspective easier. this should be a lesson to do better in the future. we have decided that we want to solve concrete projects so that we can regain the trust of the citizens. this financial perspective is a concrete project, like the road-cost directive, the european driving licence or the joint decision not to encourage the relocation of sites or jobs by the structural funds to new member states. this is also a very important step forward. we shall continue along this path in the coming weeks of the austrian presidency. i hope and count on your cooperation. we'll see you in june. then it is the future of europe. have a good day. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
the commission does not wish to intervene, but i think it is essential that parliament, through its president, should complete the words of the other branch of the budgetary authority. this agreement fully demonstrates the role of parliament as budgetary authority and makes it clear that an agreement within the council is not enough for the union to have a financial perspective, but that parliament must also be present. and parliament has been after a long and difficult process, through which we have reached an agreement which, for many members, and so the vote is taken, is an agreement of minimums. it is a minimum agreement, but it allows the union to function and does not add to the problems we already have. parliament would like to thank you, mr böge, and your entire negotiating team for the work you have done on its behalf. (applause) i would therefore like to convey our thanks to mr lewandowski, mr böge, mr walter and mr mulder, but i would also like to say that for many members - i insist - this is the best we have been able to achieve. but this maximum represents a minimum in relation to many of the ambitions the union is expressing. (applause) the cost of the european union, according to this financial perspective, is 72 cents a day for every european. it is certainly not too much for what the union is achieving. i would like to tell you, mr president-in-office of the council, that your initiative to discuss the union's own resources is one which parliament welcomes and which, at the interparliamentary meeting we held on 8 and 9 september, was also welcomed by all the union's parliaments. it is certain that the next financial perspective will not be negotiable as this one has been, that the system has reached its limit, that, between now and then, we must innovate in order to continue to make progress. i would also like to thank mr lewandowski and all the members of the committee on budgets and i would like to invite all of them to take an active part in the work of reviewing these perspectives in 2008 and 2009. (applause) ' after inviting the president-in-office of the council, mr wolfgang schüssel, the commission representative, mrs dalia grybauskaite, the negotiating team consisting of mr lewandowski, mr böge, mr walter and mr mulder, mr leinen and mr sousa pinto to accompany him, the president of parliament, together with the president-in-office of the council and the commission representative, will now sign the agreement. '
mr papoulias, our parliament welcomes you today as a man of peace and as a person committed to the construction of europe. it is an honour for parliament to have you here, you are the third president of the hellenic republic to visit us, but the last one was here 18 years ago. i would like to highlight some of your personality traits, starting with the fact that the two great political families of greece have elevated you, in unison, to the highest offices of the state. this unanimity among all political parties in favour of a great personality does not always occur. the fact that you have received support from across the political spectrum highlights your recognised role as a man of moderation, ethical responsibility and a sense of proportion. in fact, in greece you are said to be the 'personification of the measure'. it is also a way of acknowledging your early struggle for freedom, your early struggle against nazism, probably at a time when, given your age, your rifle must have been taller than you, and, later, your struggle to bring democracy back to your country during the time of military dictatorship. it is also an acknowledgement of his uninterrupted pursuit of peace along his country's borders with its nearest neighbours, in the balkans, and also in the middle east. the president of the palestinian authority was with us yesterday and i think it is good to recall today that, thanks to your intervention in 1983, many palestinians were able to leave lebanon at a dramatic moment, in complete safety, on board the greek ships that you mobilized from your responsibility as foreign minister. (applause) it is also worth noting your constant concern for dialogue with the muslim world, which is undoubtedly the most important challenge facing europe, and your desire to bring the two shores of the mediterranean closer together, which this parliament shares so much. mr president, you were born in ioannina, the capital of a beautiful region, as those who have had the good fortune to visit it will confirm. ioannina is part of europe's living history, because it was there, before the enlargement to 15 member states, that the union's foreign ministers, also under its leadership, concluded a memorable compromise that facilitates decision-making. it would be good to continue to invent commitments like the one made by ioannina in order to continue to facilitate difficult decision-making, not now among 15, but among 25 and soon among more member states. we are twenty-five, soon to be twenty-seven, the balkans are at our doorstep and you have always reminded us that there will be no final peace in europe and that europe will not be rebuilt definitively until the balkans are legally, politically and economically integrated into the union. all the international observers who have analyzed your diplomatic missions have praised your qualities, and in particular, you are a man who keeps his word, who does what he says and says what he thinks. this too should be a source of inspiration in these difficult times for europe. what no one knows, or perhaps few know, is that the president of the hellenic republic who is visiting us today was a pole-vaulting champion in his youth. (applause) europe needs, without a doubt, good jumpers with perch. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the hellenic republic. mr president, mr president-in-office of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to speak about the future of europe from this podium, which represents the most democratic institution of the european union. the european parliament, by virtue of the direct election of its members, enjoys the greatest possible legitimacy from european citizens and the clearest mandate to express their concerns and concerns. i believe that its institutional role will be strengthened as the process of european integration progresses, and i am convinced that this development is the normal course of our political culture, especially at a time when the european citizen feels insecure about his future and, often, distant from the centres of decision-making. i'd like to start with a personal observation: as a member of the generation that was tested by nazism, i keep the experience of the second world war vividly. this experience marked the beginning of the european process, a historic process which had the characteristics of a peace plan. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. this is a historic achievement which is an example of stability in the world system. the path opened by jean monnet, by establishing concrete forms of practical cooperation and avoiding ambitious theoretical schemes, has led to the creation of a union whose democratic, social and development model, despite its shortcomings, has rightly won worldwide admiration. the implementation of the european vision, which is still pending, is fatally affected by international political and economic realities. globalisation, the unipolar world, the development of new economies, population mobility, the influence of extra-institutional centres in shaping political decisions, the asymmetrical threat of international terrorism, environmental problems - combined with energy insecurity - make up a complex and rapidly changing international environment that creates challenges as well as opportunities for the european union. it is a reality to which european politicians must be absolutely honest. in preparing my speech today, i have browsed the online dialogue of european citizens on the european union website. i read interesting opinions from young people, especially from people living in different countries but experiencing the same struggles. the conclusion i drew from this tour is that the european union is called upon today to return to the principles of the european enlightenment that inspired its inception. freedom, equality and humanism are the lofty ideals which defined the content of the european idea and which today must be given new meaning. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. freedom is now a concept that is considered in conjunction with that of security. the european citizen, and those living in the european area, do not want to feel threatened in a world tested by international terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are defending the doctrine of 'security and freedom' but not 'security for freedom'. equality is defined differently depending on how you look at the world. migrants demand equal treatment with the citizens of the host countries, and sometimes their demands are dramatic. the unemployed are demanding equal opportunities in the possibility of a life of dignity. and people living in poverty are demanding the same access to health and education as those with higher incomes. the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union, and it has been a key player in the development of the european union. but how does humanism make sense? the european union's long history has already taught us some historical truths. development without social justice is an empty letter. the welfare of numbers without the welfare of people is simply a contradiction. the european union is currently going through a period of reflection, as the period that began after the referendums on the euro-constitution was called. i would say that this period should be above all a process of collective self-knowledge, a path which, if followed consistently and honestly, will lead us to the deeper purpose and essence of the european union itself. the question we must really ask ourselves is not a technocratic one but a philosophical one: what kind of europe do we want? what world are we fighting for? what is the vision we're trying to realize? and is this vision a utopia or a realistic pursuit? there are good reasons for optimism. the european union has demonstrated its historical resilience and commitment to its objectives. delays are frequently observed. sometimes they're just old-fashioned. sometimes fatigue. but the march is continuous. it's going forward and it's not stopping. and most importantly: european citizens, despite all the disappointments, continue to invest their hopes for a better life and a better world in the european idea. we consider dialogue between cultures to be an integral part of the global process, since, as has recently been shown, a lack of understanding, trust and dialogue can have very serious consequences, especially when there is a build-up of resentment and a feeling of injustice. the recent enlargement of the european union to include ten new member states has been a real shock to european reality. the idea then became firmly established - and rightly so - that the cost of non-enlargement would be greater than the cost of enlargement. the enlargement had a historical and moral dimension. the accession of the countries of central and eastern europe ended the division of the old continent. the historical unity of all its peoples in the face of a common destiny has been restored. the enlargement of the union has certainly been a very important development in the union's external relations. it has significantly changed its geopolitical and hence strategic size, giving it depth in central europe and bringing it into close proximity to the critical region of the middle east. the accession of bulgaria and romania will be of particular importance, as will the prospect of the integration of the western balkans into the union at a later stage, when the conditions are fulfilled. we welcome this strategy of enlargement towards south-eastern europe. my country and i, personally, as foreign minister, have been at the forefront of its elaboration and adoption. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it should be clear, however, that accession to the union implies full acceptance of its principles and rules and that this is an unnegotiable principle of european civilization which does not bow to any broader geopolitical considerations. it is certain - and this influenced the outcome of the referendums on the euro-constitution - that geographical enlargement preceded political integration, and this has led to intense concerns, justified concerns and, at times, disappointment. the response to this frustration can only be to accelerate the pace of the process of political deepening. the european union was built on the ruins of the second world war. it was built as a force for peace and stability, prosperity and progress. the end of the cold war brought down the last of the walls within europe. the green line, which still divides cyprus in two, defines ... (applause)... a major european problem that is still waiting to be solved. a union of 25 member states today, and more tomorrow, can only exist and thrive as an autonomous, strong and unified presence in the international system with all that this entails. the time of the war against iraq has brought the division of the european union to a dramatic reveal. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union. the challenges are ahead of us. the crisis of the iranian nuclear programme, the parallel energy crisis which is looming, and which may be deeper than it seems, terrorism, developments in the balkans with a view to the finalization of the kosovo regime, the conditions in africa and the aids problem are situations which require the european union to articulate its own unified message and to shape its own strategy. we hope that there will soon be stability in iraq, something that the long-suffering iraqi people so badly need. the solution of the palestinian problem, with a secure israel and a democratic palestine, together with stability in iraq, will also restore the political geography of this energy-critical area with which europe has privileged, historical, political, cultural and commercial relations. i also think it is important that the european union has decided to continue its aid to the palestinians, since its withdrawal can only worsen the problems. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe. the lisbon strategy, ladies and gentlemen, is precisely intended to respond to the anxieties of europeans about growth, unemployment and social cohesion by means of budgetary discipline and respect for the welfare state. the commission's strategy is to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. let 's get this straight: the lisbon equation, although correct in its conception, still has the elements of academic rhetoric in its implementation plan. rhetoric appealing to the learned, but incomprehensible or contradictory to the average citizen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. words are used to hide meanings. let's not fool ourselves. it is clear that today in the union there are two main schools of thought on the realisation of the lisbon objectives: the group which argues that the development and salvage of the welfare state in a globalised world can only be achieved by radical reforms in industrial relations and the group which believes that it is possible to achieve lisbon in a globalised world without dismantling the welfare state. i believe that the right to differ is the fundamental privilege of democracy and therefore a cornerstone of our union. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. because it's the people who will ultimately give the answers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the reality today in much of the union is difficult. despite the fight against unemployment, small successes are not enough to tackle this big problem. instead of jobs increasing, unemployment and underemployment are rising in several countries. instead of more social protection for the vulnerable sections of the population, ever larger armies of the excluded are being created. instead of improving the quality of life for all, the dividing lines in two-thirds societies are deepening. the farmers are concerned about the revision of the common agricultural policy. young people are fighting for a job. then, in case they get fired and look for another job. in the end, for their pension and insurance. the workers to transfer their jobs outside europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the reason is obvious: there is a serious crisis of confidence between citizens and the theoreticians of industrial relations. there is a lot of social uncertainty. the fact is that no development strategy is going to work unless it is people-centred. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and it is to be adopted by the council and the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if it does not invest in upgrading the quality of education, research and the challenges of new technologies. this is not political romance. it is a question of respecting the principles on which the european structure was built: the principles of equality and solidarity. it is also a political reality, because it has already been shown, not once but many times, that when collective insecurity intensifies, when inequalities and exclusions deepen, social tensions are manifested in an extreme way and with unforeseen consequences. as historical experience has shown, dangerous dynamics can then be created outside the political system. human societies have gone through various phases of dominant economic theories. but whenever the voice of the people was not heard, tensions and upheavals swept over both theories and theoreticians. the future of europe will be shaped by european citizens and depend on their own participation in the commons. and that is both necessary and desirable in a democracy. thucydides, in pericles' epitaph, describes with timeless accuracy the importance of the active citizen for democracy: "only one of the ten participants is considered unreasonable but not evil". it's been centuries since then. but the active citizen remains the beginning and the end of our defining the path towards a europe with a global mission. for a europe which is not only a bastion of democracy and human rights but also a model of the right to work, development and social cohesion. the european union must be a superpower of humanity. and the place where i am today, the european parliament, has the high responsibility to make the citizen's voice heard as loud and as loud as possible. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
thank you very much, mr president, for your words. i am sure they will be like the perch you used in your youth and will help us to overcome the obstacles that the european construction has ahead of us. you have referred to many of the problems we have to solve and the role that the european parliament has to play in this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr. president, thank you very much. (applause) the formal sitting is adjourned at 12.35 p.m.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, let me begin on a personal note: this is my third opportunity to speak in this house about the broad issues of human rights. as far as the austrian presidency is concerned, this issue is very dear to our hearts and we want to deal with it in a way that corresponds to what the rapporteur has just said. we want the european union as a whole to be perceived by our partners and by the outside world as speaking with one voice and conveying the values of the european union. as mr howitt said, we have to practise what we preach. this is very much what the presidency is trying to do. i should like to begin by thanking the european parliament for its cooperation and we should also like to thank the commissioner and the commission for their contributions. we are grateful this year that, for the first time, parliament has adopted a comprehensive approach. it has not just listed one human rights violation after another in a given country but has adopted a comprehensive approach and policy, which the council very much appreciates. es ist für die, die frau, den mann, die als menschenrechtsverteidiger bedroht werden, die gefoltert werden, nicht von bedeutung, ob die europäische union jetzt als parlament, als rat oder als kommission spricht. das wesentliche ist, dass wir als europäische union sprechen. die menschen zählen auf die hilfe der europäischen union, unabhängig von den institutionen, daher ist die zusammenarbeit zwischen den institutionen besonders wichtig. ich möchte an dieser stelle auch auf etwas hinweisen, was vielleicht nicht unmittelbar im zusammenhang mit dem bericht steht, was mir aber auch sehr wichtig ist. die österreichische präsidentschaft bemüht sich, die grundrechteagentur wenn möglich noch während unserer eigenen präsidentschaft einzurichten und endgültige einigung darüber zu erzielen. wir haben heute vormittag eine sehr konstruktive sitzung mit parlament und kommission gehabt, wo wir uns auf die gründzüge dieser zukünftigen grundrechteagentur geeinigt haben. ich bitte sie alle, hier mitzuwirken, dass diese wichtige institution, die die europäische union als ganzes nach außen vertreten soll, möglichst bald wirklichkeit werden kann. die präsidentschaft wird sich sehr darum bemühen. wir haben den bericht sorgfältig geprüft, und wir danken dem berichterstatter und allen abgeordneten, die hierbei mitgewirkt haben. ich möchte auf einige punkte besonders eingehen. zunächst zur frage der menschenrechtsleitlinien. diese menschenrechtsleitlinien, die auch der bericht richtigerweise hervorhebt, haben eine große bedeutung für die verstärkte umsetzung der unionspolitik. die weltweite abschaffung der todesstrafe und der folter sowie der schutz von menschenrechtsverteidigern und von kindern in bewaffneten konflikten sind das herzstück unseres einsatzes, und ich möchte erwähnen, dass die österreichische außenpolitik auch unter der leitung der jetzigen kommissarin benita ferrero-waldner gerade diesen themen in den vergangenen jahren besonders augenmerk geschenkt hat. wir begrüßen die arbeit dieses hauses, insbesondere des unterausschusses für menschenrechte, für die verbesserte umsetzung der leitlinien gegen folter und ihr traditionelles engagement für den schutz vor menschenrechtsverletzungen. es ist dies ein anliegen, das auch die ratsvorsitzende ursula plasnik ganz besonders ernst nimmt. im vorfeld des eu-lateinamerika-karibik-gipfels hat ursula plasnik menschenrechtsverteidiger aus der region empfangen und ihnen auch die unterstützung der europäischen union zugesichert. zum thema leitlinien zur folter: immer wieder hören wir, dass die europäische union in einzelfällen nicht genügend interveniert. wir sind uns natürlich dessen bewusst, dass oft stunden entscheiden können, ob menschen, die sich in polizeigewahrsam befinden, menschlich behandelt werden. das ist richtig, aber wir müssen auch ehrlich zu uns selbst sein und sagen: unsere möglichkeiten sind leider sehr oft begrenzt. die europäische union äußert sich im rahmen ihrer möglichkeiten sehr deutlich gerade in fällen, wo folter und unmenschliche behandlung drohen. leider können wir nicht immer folter und unmenschliche behandlung verhindern. die umsetzung der antifolterkonvention der vereinten nationen, und überhaupt die zusammenarbeit mit dem menschenrechtssystem der vereinten nationen war während unserer präsidentschaft – und das ist nur eine fortsetzung der traditionellen politik der europäischen union – ein wesentlicher bestandteil unserer menschenrechtspolitik, und wir haben insgesamt in über 25 ländern entsprechende demarchen durchgeführt. natürlich ist gerade das thema folter und unmenschliche behandlung ein wichtiges thema, das wir in unseren menschenrechtsdialogen mit drittstaaten immer wieder aufgreifen. ich selbst kann anlässlich meines besuches in kasachstan, wo wir politische gespräche mit den zentralasiatischen ländern geführt haben, sowie anlässlich meines kürzlichen besuches im südkaukasischen raum sagen, dass die europäische union das thema folter und unmenschliche behandlung wie überhaupt das thema menschenrechte stets sehr deutlich angesprochen hat. wir haben vor wenigen tagen die wahl zum un-menschenrechtsrat erlebt. im großen und ganzen können wir wohl zufrieden sein, denn es hat sich gezeigt, dass doch einige staaten, die notorische menschenrechtsverletzer sind, nicht gewählt wurden. dies entspricht auch der verpflichtung, die die europäische union abgegeben hat, nämlich nicht für länder zu stimmen, die für menschenrechtsverletzungen bekannt sind. die erste sitzung des menschenrechtsrates wird am 19. juni, also noch unter unserer präsidentschaft, stattfinden. wir wollen, dass dieses neue organ der vereinten nationen in zukunft einen konstruktiven und wesentlichen beitrag für eine weltweite arbeit im bereich der menschenrechte gewährleistet. abschließend möchte ich noch einmal unterstreichen, wie wichtig der austausch zwischen den institutionen für die wirksamkeit unserer bemühungen in menschenrechtsfragen ist. nur eine einheitliche, umfassende menschenrechtspolitik der europäischen union wird gehört werden und letztlich erfolg haben. die präsentation des jahresberichts der europäischen union zur menschenrechtspolitik vor dem plenum dieses hauses im dezember, in dessen rahmen sie mit der verleihung des sacharow-preises traditionell einen menschenrechtsschwerpunkt setzen, und ihre antwort auf diesen bericht leisten dazu einen wichtigen beitrag. unser gemeinsames ziel ist eine wirksame und sichtbare menschenrechtspolitik der europäischen union, das eintreten für unsere werte. das europäische parlament leistet dazu einen bedeutenden beitrag, der auch im jahresbericht 2005 der europäischen union gewürdigt wurde. die leistungen des europäischen parlaments sollen und werden auch im kommenden jahresbericht, der unter finnischem vorsitz vorbereitet wird, gebührend anerkannt werden. ich möchte mich noch einmal auch beim berichterstatter sehr herzlich für diesen ausgezeichneten bericht bedanken.
member of the commission. mr president, i very much welcome this opportunity for a human rights debate. i thank mr howitt for his excellent report. i also welcome the comprehensive analysis of action. as the president said, both the commission and the council have to work very closely together in order to have a comprehensive human rights policy. let me make a few comments and raise a few issues. first, i acknowledge the strong support of parliament for the european initiative for democracy and human rights, and its continued interest. i assure you that all the elements that contribute to the success of this initiative will be maintained for the period 2007 to 2013, for instance independence from government approval and support for civil society organisations. i share the concern to make our actions in the area more flexible and in tune with the needs of the grassroots organisations. this year we are already trying out concrete improvements in our procedures, notably in the calls for proposals. we also need to better adapt the programme to the sensitive situations and restrictions often faced by civil society organisations. i will certainly continue to rely on your support to carry through those changes. secondly, i am grateful for the recognition of the effectiveness of the eu election-monitoring activities. they clearly demonstrate the commitment of the european union to the democratic process and the sustainable resolution of conflicts. that is clearly reflected in the significant increase in the number of observation missions over the last two years, particularly in post-conflict and transition situations. the professional and independent approach of eu electoral observers is highly regarded and enjoys credibility and leverage. i am sensitive to the need to ensure that any further increase in that area does not squeeze resources from other priorities and i can assure you that i will do my best in that regard. thirdly, i welcome your positive comments on the human rights work of the eu in multilateral fora. great efforts go into consolidating eu positions in such fora, which are often instrumental in achieving progress. as the president has already said, that leadership role of the european union was clearly visible in the negotiations establishing the human rights council. i should like to pay tribute to the austrian presidency, which capably steered through somewhat difficult waters. now that elections to the council have taken place, the real work of this new body at the helm of the international and human rights system begins. i am confident that it will prove more efficient than the old commission on human rights. fourthly, i should like to pay tribute to the work leading to the report on gender equality and women’s rights. the mainstreaming of women’s as well as children’s rights remains a priority for this commission and for me personally. the ongoing work on a comprehensive communication on children’s rights encompassing the internal, as well as the external, affairs of eu action is testimony to that. i welcome the recommendations made by the rapporteur on the format of this and future reports. i hope that it will be possible to make the 2006 eu human rights report a truly interinstitutional report. in that respect, my services have already suggested to the member states that, as suggested by parliament, the 2006 report should include a section on human rights guidelines, more emphasis on the use and impact of human rights clauses, and it should also aim to cover the activities of all three institutions – the council, the commission and parliament. that should not in any way be interpreted as impinging on the prerogatives of parliament to scrutinise the work of the council and commission. but there will be space and need for a separate report by parliament on the european union’s human rights policy. i agree with mr howitt that a reinforced effort should be made by the european union as a whole to address human rights concerns more systematically and to mainstream human rights considerations in eu policies. in that task, cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission is crucial. you can be sure that we are a partner in it.
as rapporteur for the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i am pleased to welcome the content of mr howitt's report, especially the sensitivity he has shown in addressing the gender perspective in a transversal way. as we stated in our opinion attached to the report, we believe that international legal standards, which support and protect women's rights, should systematically become the cornerstone of all bilateral relations, and in particular with regard to third countries with which the european union has signed association and cooperation agreements. in addition, taking advantage of the recent summit between the european union and latin america, we also wanted to deplore the tragic phenomenon of femicide, which consists in torturing and murdering women for the simple fact of being women, and to recall the need to put an end to impunity in this respect. finally, i would also like to remind you that we must once again acknowledge that women are the main victims of armed conflict and that, at the same time, from a positive perspective, we must highlight the crucial role they play in working towards peace.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, you should all read and study carefully the excellent report by my colleague and fellow member richard howitt, because in it you will find challenges and answers. at a time when the big debate is about security - and, of course, security is a big issue - we should not stir up fears to question basic principles in the defence of human rights. because no european political project is possible without making human rights a priority. to let down our guard in the face of human rights - and we may be doing so - means to renounce democratic ethics and the best values of the european union. realpolitik cannot continue to impose this double standard, which is often untenable, because it greatly undermines the credibility of our democracy. the people who suffer persecution, torture, discrimination, fear and death expect us to take decisive and consistent action in favour of their rights. and speaking with one voice in international forums - as the commissioner and the council representative have already said - defending human rights with the voice of 25 countries behind us, with the energy that the union must develop at this moment, will strengthen us all and make it possible finally not to think again, as we are doing at the moment, about what we call torture, what we call murder, what we call security and what we call the unavoidable defence of fundamental rights.
mr president, this annual event clearly demonstrates the unwavering and unwavering commitment of our parliament to the cause of human rights in the world, which should not be preached from a region, a country or a continent, but should be planetary or universal. and we must welcome the constructive criticism from mr howitt's report, knowing that before we set out to fix the world, we often have to look around our own house. our parliament has demonstrated its commitment to the cause of human rights through its resolutions, through the sakharov prize for freedom of conscience and through its strong positions on the international criminal court and the death penalty. i believe that we must support the efforts of the european commission and the council to introduce the human rights dimension into the european union's external action with the candidate countries, mr president; with the neighbouring countries, within the framework of the neighbourhood policy, madam commissioner; through the democratic clause we have with third countries; through the instrument for the defence of democracy and human rights; and, above all, and very particularly, through the initiative that the commission has launched in the form of election observation missions in third countries, which is a privileged instrument that enhances the brand image and respect for human rights that the european union must try to convey in the world. in short, mr president, the three institutions of the union - the council, the commission and the european parliament - must unite their efforts to make the 21st century the century of human rights and to ensure that respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms prevails in all regions of the world.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, i welcome this neighbourhood instrument which we will adopt soon and which we are debating today, and i particularly welcome all the amendments which have strengthened the role of civil society in neighbourhood policy. the speakers before me have said that a real instrument, which the commission has announced it will present, to strengthen human rights and support for democracy is still pending. but it is obvious that this neighbourhood instrument which we are now discussing, after its passage through parliament, has been soaked in many references to the protection of human rights and to the relationship with civil society and non-state actors. i ask the commission to bear this in mind and, when it has to implement this agreement with the neighbouring countries, to bear in mind that many of them are not democracies. it must therefore bear in mind that this instrument cannot be used to strengthen non-democratic regimes and must therefore always keep these non-governmental actors in mind.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, there is discomfort in the committee on development over the difficulties encountered with the european commission and the council in the handling of the development cooperation instrument. we adopted the first mitchell report over a year ago in the committee on development and have since blocked it in the face of the good words of the commission and council that they would heed our arguments and criticisms of the commission's initial proposal. however, despite some efforts and progress, these proposals have not been put into practice and have not been translated into any text submitted by the commission to parliament. three were the main drawbacks of what we have been proposed. firstly, it did not seem reasonable to have a single instrument for development cooperation and cooperation with the developed world. we were concerned that the resources earmarked for the development of the countries of the south might be diverted to cooperation with the countries of the north. the council and the commission seem to be moving closer to our approaches on this point. the second point raised was more serious. we could not accept that parliament should lose powers already assumed in the sixteen instruments which it was now intended to compress into one or two. the whole process of european integration has been a constant effort to consolidate democratic progress in the interinstitutional relationship, which has mainly been achieved by giving parliament greater powers in decision-making. we were surprised, and almost indignant, at the approach taken by the commission, which puts efficiency and democracy in opposition. the aim has been to reduce parliament's powers on the grounds that they complicate the process and make it less effective. it is not the hierarchy of the committee on development that is at stake, but parliament's competence, and we must not take a step backwards in this respect. there has been no progress here that can be objectively accounted for. the third point of contention was that, on the one hand, perhaps more so than the commission, the council tried to include in development cooperation measures relating to security, terrorism and immigration. both of these may seem relevant, but it is unacceptable that they should be financed from the resources earmarked for development cooperation. we cannot assume that, for example, the cost of repatriating illegal immigrants is financed by the development cooperation instrument. these programmes would need a differentiated instrument and funding from other sources. we have also made some progress in our discussions with the commission and the council on this matter. mr president, we shall vote on the text proposed to us, hoping that at the second reading the commission will understand and accept our arguments and, if possible, with the council's understanding and support.
the president of the council. there is no legal link between the various accession negotiations. of course, there may be a de facto linkage if as in the case of turkey and croatia screening reports are submitted on several candidates at the same time. this gives rise to a certain parallelism in time. but it is not a coupling. the negotiations therefore continue to be governed by the principle that each candidate country is dealt with according to its own progress and that there is no link with the negotiations with other candidate countries.
president-in-office of the council. in reply to mr corbett’s question, the normal procedure is for institutional questions to be dealt with last. of course, the regime that will eventually apply to the representation of new member states in the bodies and institutions of the european union very much depends on the debate on the future of the european union and on the future of the constitution. however, that is still in the future and i cannot predict what will happen.
the president of the council. i do not see it that way, mr president. nothing is put on the back burner. we all recognise that croatia has made great progress. we have rewarded these advances accordingly. there is no reason to doubt that the negotiations will continue swiftly and that the progress achieved will be rewarded accordingly. i see no connection here with any other negotiations, past or future.
the president of the council. on this point, i must point out that, as is well known, consular matters - and this is a consular matter - fall within the competence of the national authorities. as far as the council is aware, this matter is at an advanced stage of negotiation between portugal and canada. i can therefore only say that there is no real competence of the council in this matter. i can only add that, at the request of the state concerned, this question will not be discussed further in the council working party on consular affairs.
the president of the council. i would point out that in the end it is and must be a matter of what the state concerned wants. if a member state of the european union wants to treat a matter which is in itself a national matter as a national matter and a bilateral matter and negotiate this matter with the third country, then the european union should not interfere. if portugal has a different interest and expresses it, the council would of course examine it accordingly.
the president of the council. the union and the council are following the human rights situation in iran in general with attention and also with growing concern. it was the european union which, at the 60th session of the united nations general assembly, tabled a resolution on human rights in the islamic republic of iran, thus publicly expressing its concern about the situation in iran to the world public. i can assure the honourable members that the european union is using all available means - publicly, in confidence, in statements and in demarches - to express this concern about human rights violations in iran and will continue to do so. as for the case of masouma kaabi and her son, they were allegedly released on bail a few weeks ago. the european union is following the situation closely and will take every opportunity to address and express these very legitimate concerns.
i would just like to draw the council's attention to the fact that this is not a general reference to human rights in iran, but we are talking about specific cases. you have indeed referred to the specific case of the person who has been released and not to the cases of those who have not been released. i am referring to a name-and-name intervention, not to a general defence of human rights in iran, because we are doing that with some effectiveness. the same cannot be said of direct intervention in specific cases which we know about.
the next item is the joint debate on - the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion by the european community of the energy community treaty (oj c6-0435/2005 2005/0178 (avc)) (wr: giles chichester) (a6-0134/2006) - the oral question to the council on the energy community treaty for south-east europe, by giles chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-0024/2006 - b6-0020/2006). - the oral question to the commission on the energy community treaty for south-east europe by mr giles chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-0025/2006 - b6-0206/2006), and
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the debate has already shown that the energy community treaty is a historic treaty and not a one-way street in terms of its benefits. it is not that we are giving these countries something, as it were, the european union also has something. it is important - and this was also said by mr buzek, for example - that this is a european issue, not just a question of the countries of south-eastern europe or the european union. that is certainly not how an integrated energy market can work. this treaty not only contributes to energy security and supply but also to greater stability in europe as a whole. as you know, the austrian presidency has in recent months been trying to work more closely with the countries of south-eastern europe and the countries of the western balkans, to make progress in the interests of stability and peace in europe. it is perhaps interesting to recall that the treaty establishing the energy community was deliberately modelled on the european coal and steel community, which was the nucleus of the european union. it was also mentioned here, for example, by mr paasilinna, that the energy community treaty has addressed the very local and specific energy and environmental concerns of south-eastern europe. a number of speakers raised environmental concerns, such as the higher death rates due to harsh winters and environmental degradation from emissions from old power stations, the use of wood for domestic fires with the resulting deforestation and the unsustainable use of wetlands and watercourses for hydroelectricity generation. there is a european interest, and it was also mentioned in the debate that we need to think beyond the region of south-eastern europe - the caspian sea was mentioned here. i should like to mention in this connection that the presidency met all the representatives of the central asian countries in kazakhstan as part of a troika mission and also undertook a mission to the south caucasus. in both regions, the question of energy is of particular importance, whether they are producers or transit countries. it was also called 'nabucco', another important project that will help to ensure europe's energy security. doubts were also expressed. it's all legitimate, of course. but i think that the question of this treaty must be seen in the context of the european union's overall efforts in this region of south-eastern europe. i would remind you that all the countries that are part of this treaty are involved in the stabilisation and association process, which of course also includes respect for human rights, fundamental rights and other provisions of the european union. the purpose of this network of agreements we have concluded with south-eastern europe is to introduce these countries to the values of the european union, including, of course, the values enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. i therefore believe that the energy community is a unique achievement, a successful project which we want to continue to make successful. that's what i heard from most of the reports. there is no doubt that europe must speak with a common energy policy voice to third countries and that the integration of our neighbouring countries into the european internal market must be further promoted. i want to leave no doubt - i said so in my first speech - that parliament has a central and important role here, and that it is not the council that is trying to restrict parliament's rights - which we cannot do, since there is an interinstitutional structure - but that we are also actively interested in involving parliament and working with it. we will therefore involve parliament in all the important matters affecting the energy community, in accordance with the ec treaty but also, as i have already said, in a very comprehensive interpretation of these provisions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
member of the commission. mr president, i shall try to address some of the issues touched upon during the debate about the new countries that could join the community in the years to come. i really believe that turkey is close to joining the community. it has been working towards this since the creation of the community. it has not signed up to it, but we shall continue to work with it. it is quite important for turkey as a candidate country – we have started negotiations with it and it is also a very important transit country – that it could and should sign this treaty. two countries – ukraine and moldova – have also expressed interest in joining. the issue of affordability is very important because energy prices should be accessible to the citizens of these countries. article 33 of chapter iv addresses this issue as far as the community can address it. in the process of creating the community we have devoted attention to social issues. i agree that the social approach in europe should definitely be directed more closely at countries that aspire to a vision that may one day come much closer to that of the european union. a memorandum of understanding is a good first step in that direction. we have looked carefully at renewables and energy efficiency: chapter vi addresses this issue. on kyoto, article 13 in chapter iii – even if it does not say very much – covers this and the provisions on renewables and energy efficiency in the treaty will definitely help to achieve the kyoto goals. concerning privatisation, the community does not impose any type of action in this area: any decision on privatisation will be taken by these countries’ governments. concerning prices, i think these countries are already paying extremely high prices for energy. an energy community could bring down prices because of the new investments it will bring in. it will also help with regard to collecting payments, because there is a lot of money owed. there is also diversification: these regions pay some of the highest gas prices to the supplier. the supplier in these regions does not worry too much about price affordability. this means that the energy community could bring much more stability – at least to prices – and could even reduce prices for consumers. in addition, an acquis communautaire brings public service obligations, which means addressing issues for the more vulnerable people in society. investments from the world bank – the eib is also very active in this region – and other investors will come as soon as the treaty is approved and ratified. i think there has been some misunderstanding about foreign policy. this treaty does not address that issue at all. the treaty states that in some cases when energy is bought from third countries, the energy community could apply some restrictions if these countries neglect the environment or social issues. this provides an opportunity. this treaty in no way restricts the powers of the countries that participate in the treaty to take independent foreign policy decisions. it is very fair to look at these issues, because we cannot afford, if we want to promote sustainability, to buy energy from a third country where environmental standards are neglected and, as a result, the price of energy resources is perhaps cheaper. so i think there has been some misunderstanding. i really believe that this treaty serves the interests of the region and of the european community and i really hope that the countries that participate in this community will benefit greatly from it.
in order to close this debate, a motion for a resolution has been tabled, pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr james elles, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the 2007 budget: commission report on the annual policy strategy [2006/2020 (bud) ] (a6-0154/2006). i have mrs grybauskaitė first on my list of speakers on behalf of the commission, but i understand that she would prefer the rapporteur to begin. are you ready to begin, mr. elles?
under rule 142(5) mr elles did indeed have the right to speak first, so let me congratulate you, commissioner, on your accurate knowledge of the rules of this house.
mr president, commissioner, it is clear that the first thing we should talk about is the very purpose of this debate on annual strategic priorities, since the aim in principle was to establish proper communication with the european commission when setting its budgetary priorities. however, we have the preliminary draft budgets again a few days before our colleague mr jensen presents his report on the annual strategic priorities to the house. in any case, we are already shortening the weeks and, possibly, before this parliamentary term is over, we will have this debate on the annual strategic priorities taking place at the same time as the commission is preparing its preliminary draft budgets. i would also like to say that we fully support the rapporteur, james elles, both now and in the difficult times ahead when we really have to make the most of the financial perspective we have adopted today - this very retrograde financial perspective, as the rapporteur himself says and i agree with him - because there is a lot to be shown. the council must show that it believes in its own commitments: firstly, it must be present in this debate - but i see that it has not had time to stay; secondly, the commission must be able to convince a very sensitive parliament that it will be able to maintain an acceptable level of expenditure to maintain and feed the community programmes; and thirdly, parliament must also be very vigilant about the quality of expenditure and the council's attitude to the size of the budget. we hope that this budget, which the rapporteur has very interesting ideas about and which is the first of the seven budgets in this financial perspective, will be amended and that some progress will be made in the budgetary procedure, for example in the first conciliation and, above all, mr president, in the prioritization of community programmes by the parliamentary committees. there are fewer resources and therefore each committee will have to face its own responsibility.
mr deprez, thank you very much for your speech and for your congratulations, but you should also convey your condolences to the rapporteur.
that is a valid point. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mrs constanze angela krehl, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the preparation of the assent procedure for the community strategic guidelines 2007-2013 (cohesion policy to support growth and jobs) [2006/2086 (ini) ] (a6-0175/2006).
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent and timely work and thank her for her interest in coming to the meeting and engaging in intensive dialogue with national representatives of the various levels of responsibility for structural and cohesion policies. thank you, mrs krehl. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we therefore highly appreciate mrs krehl's keen awareness of the diversity of the different needs of the regions and the flexibility of her solutions, with particular attention to areas 'from mountainous to outermost regions' which suffer from structural disadvantages such as depopulation, ageing or difficult access. we also appreciate your insistence on actively promoting equal opportunities for men and women as a cross-cutting condition. it's never enough. we also welcome the innovative and modern take-up of mr delors' speech on growth and investment, in his call for sustainable transport infrastructures - rail, public transport and maritime transport - their accessibility and the optimisation of traffic management and road safety, and above all the need to complete the transeuropean networks, especially at the borders of states which are not sufficiently developed, as is the case in my country in the pyrenees. we also approve of his call for the sustainable use of natural resources, especially water, and for the development of sustainable energy sources in combination with savings and efficiency. i would like to emphasize mrs krehl's ability to perceive the requirements of the specific relations between cities and the surrounding territory, with that approach to an integrated economic space, which in zaragoza, my city, we call the fourth space. i would also like to emphasize mrs krehl's commitment to the need to reduce the technological gap between regions and between member states by strengthening networks of technological cooperation and by being particularly sensitive to promoting the development of smes and the potential for innovation in the field of r & d. finally, i would like to thank you for all your efforts to improve employment and the integration of immigrants, and for your view that the situation of workers must under no circumstances deteriorate.
member of the commission. i should like to thank the rapporteur again for an excellent report. the commission’s final version of the community’s strategic guidelines for cohesion will be clear and transparent. i assure you that the report and today’s debate will provide valuable input in shaping the strategic guidelines for cohesion.
this point is substantiated. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the committees on regional development, the environment and agriculture and the respective rapporteurs, mr galeote quecedo, mr berend, mr capoualas santos and mrs estrela, for their hard and constructive work. recent trends seem to indicate a growing vulnerability of the european union to disasters, and natural disasters in particular. the incidence of extreme weather events and related natural disasters is increasing, perhaps fuelled by the effects of climate changes. this year again, floods have raged in central and eastern europe with four countries – slovakia, hungary, romania and bulgaria – requesting assistance through the community mechanism for civil protection. i am proud to say that european solidarity and generosity has once again mitigated the affliction those countries had to suffer. the four reports rightly point out the human, environmental and financial costs of such disasters. the commission therefore very much welcomes the european parliament’s initiative to examine the various aspects involved, with a joint effort by no less than three parliamentary committees. the jointly organised hearing earlier this spring has certainly made a valuable contribution to this process. the reports rightly consider a whole range of measures aimed at improving risk prevention and the response to crises. the commission agrees with the recommendations regarding the need to adjust action in the area of prevention and management of natural disasters, as well as the need to coordinate community instruments. in fact, the reports reinforce the commission’s integrated approach to its policy on disasters, which includes instruments regarding prevention, immediate response and more longer-term, solidarity-based action. this approach is intended to strengthen the eu’s capacity and effectiveness in preparing for and responding to major disasters, while avoiding duplication of effort. some of the proposals contained in the reports have already been endorsed through the commission’s action. we are now proposing even more concrete ways to act. our recast of the council decision establishing the community mechanism for civil protection is the legal embodiment of a number of proposals put forward in these reports. these proposals are consistent with the rapid response and preparedness instrument. the recent barnier report also explores certain forward-looking suggestions for our response to disasters. the commission also welcomes the progress on the negotiations for the proposed floods directive on the assessment and management of floods and the positive vote in the recent envi committee meeting. the commission would equally welcome strong support from this house for a directive that gives all citizens a right to the same approach and level of ambition for flood risk protection, prevention and preparedness, regardless of where they live in the community: in transboundary or national river basins, or in the coastal areas of the community. not only are floods on the increase with changes to our climate, but droughts have become more prevalent in europe. at the request of a number of member states, the commission is analysing the issues of water scarcity and droughts. options are under consideration and we expect that a commission staff paper will be available shortly. another relevant instrument for the future could be life+, the new financial instrument for the environment. it aims, inter alia, to support the efforts of member states in the field of forest fire prevention, mainly through the implementation of knowledge-related measures such as training and awareness-raising campaigns. equally, the commission is prepared to cofinance prevention measures under the cohesion and rural development policies. member states are invited to include appropriate actions in their programmes for the forthcoming period, where prevention will be one of the priorities. under the rural development pillar, member states can also implement specific measures to restore the potential of forestry or agricultural production. under the rural development programmes, they can also request that a ‘severe natural disaster’ be recognised as force majeure, in order to derogate from certain conditions under the ‘agri-environment’ measures. those possibilities continue in the new programming period from 2007 to 2013. we must not forget, though, that natural disasters are not the only threat the union is faced with. it must be prepared for and able to respond effectively to challenges. major man-made disasters, major threats to public health and acts of terrorism might require just as much of a common european response. for the commission, it is sometimes difficult to explain why the union should be absent in some circumstances. the lack of a concrete expression of union solidarity has already been a source of embarrassment to the union during some of the traumatic events of recent years. the commission is therefore particularly grateful for the widespread support expressed in mr berend’s report for extending the eu solidarity fund to non-natural disasters and for enlarging the scope of eligible operations accordingly. the solidarity fund created in 2002 has generally worked quite successfully, if judged against the objectives and conditions set out in its legal basis. aid has been granted in 21 cases, concerning 15 member states and candidate countries. those who criticise the solidarity fund as being ineffective or too slow have a point. however, experience since 2002 has also led the commission to the view that the existing fund has a number of shortcomings and that modifications to the current regulation are necessary. that is why we have proposed a new solidarity fund regulation. the new proposal is based on the current solidarity fund, while introducing a number of modifications aimed at widening its scope, making the fund more transparent, and introducing a number of operational improvements, in particular the possibility of making advance payments so that the fund reacts more quickly and effectively. the commission nevertheless considers that the fund must remain limited to public emergency intervention. insured or private damage, including agricultural damage, should not be compensated. the ‘polluter pays’ principle and third party liability must continue to apply. as with the current fund, the new proposal is based on the subsidiarity principle. the eu should intervene only when a state is considered to be no longer in a position to tackle a disaster alone. consequently, there should be a relatively high threshold for european intervention. today this threshold is defined in terms of direct damage, which must exceed eur 3 billion, or 0.6% of gni. with the new proposal, the commission has therefore sought to improve the transparency and simplicity of the criteria governing the mobilisation of the solidarity fund. that would help the national authorities to have a clearer idea of when the fund is likely to be able to support them in recovering from a disaster. alongside the enlarged scope, a major element of the proposal is therefore a new definition of the criteria for triggering the fund. the operationally complicated regional criteria would be abolished in favour of only quantitative criteria. in compensation for the loss of the regional criteria, the quantitative threshold would be reset at eur 1 billion, or 0.5% of gni, whichever is the lower. this would increase the predictability of the european union’s solidarity fund decisions, thus reducing the workload in the member states in preparing applications for support that have little or no chance of success. solely in the case of truly unexpected and exceptional situations, such as those where physical damage is limited, for instance terrorist attacks or major public health crises, the new fund could be mobilised by a political decision of the commission, to be confirmed by the european parliament and the council.
the rapporteur. mr president, in the last eight months we have visited the areas affected by natural disasters in many member states and held a public hearing, in which some of those who were not able to speak in their home parliaments were able to speak, and today we are presenting concrete proposals which the other institutions cannot have ended up in the dustbin. some colleagues could legitimately be satisfied with the work done in this area, which is certainly more than what has been done by the directly competent public administrations in some of the member states. i think, however, that we must ask ourselves whether we are better prepared today than we were eight months ago to prevent and combat these disasters, whether we have more effective mechanisms today to help those who suffer the consequences of fire, water or drought. i'm not sure about that. i would like to thank all the groups for their commitment and dedication during these months of intense work. i am grateful to the president of the european parliament for asking who was going to be present at the hearing, although i cannot hide the fact that i would have preferred his support to visit the affected areas immediately, avoiding bureaucratic procedures which made us wait four months and missing the opportunity to express our immediate solidarity with the victims. i would like to thank in particular the professionalism shown by the parliament's services, who were subjected to all kinds of pressure before, during and after the trips. i am very glad that we were able to coincide the vote on these reports with the reform of the european union solidarity fund, because in all the places we have visited, mr piebalgs, we have seen general dissatisfaction with the application of this community instrument. i think it is essential that the council should accept parliament's amendments, particularly those which call for the fund to help all the victims and their families and for the limits of the fund to be reduced and for the fund to be able to be used when certain areas are completely destroyed, as is the case with the riba de saelices, which we have visited. ladies and gentlemen, during these visits we have seen the shortcomings of information campaigns for prevention and the lack of coordination between the competent public administrations within the member states and between them, as we have seen, for example, in pampillosa da serra. we also feel the dissatisfaction of the population in broad social sectors, in ngos and in representatives of civil society. i therefore hope that the proposals contained in the reports which are before the house today will receive broad support and will send a clear signal to the governments of the member states. i want to sum up in a quick decalogue what we asked for. firstly, a european strategy to combat natural disasters; secondly, the involvement of the regions and local authorities; thirdly, flexibility in the redistribution of available funds; fourthly, a community programme for the protection of forests; fifthly, a specific proposal, mr piebalgs, for a directive on the prevention and management of fires in the european union; sixthly, the application of the seventh framework research programme, the global observatory for safety and the environment and the galileo system to help with prevention and early warning; seventhly, programmes and information and educational campaigns coordinated with the member states; eighthly, a community civil protection mechanism; ninthly, that additional financial instruments such as eib loans or regional state aid should also be applied; and tenthly, that the european parliament should continue to exercise its responsibility for fire control and all the problems associated with fire. i therefore call on all of us to put aside the partisan differences that may have divided us and to build a broad parliamentary consensus, which is what the european citizens are demanding of us today and what we owe them, particularly those who have suffered the consequences of these natural disasters, that is, their victims.
mr president, i begin by thanking all the colleagues who have taken part in these reports, especially mr berend, who has made a great effort to rally a majority around the solidarity fund, in which the interests of the colleagues were diverse, so it has not been an easy task to reach a common position that will enable this parliament to act with strength and forcefulness in the forthcoming negotiations. i would like to highlight briefly some important points in relation to natural disasters, because i believe that it is necessary to strengthen the european union's measures to deal with them, since it has been shown that community interventions have so far been insufficient. it is therefore justified for this parliament to ask the commission to draw up a european strategy for combating natural disasters, while recognizing the specific nature of mediterranean disasters such as droughts and forest fires. it is necessary to make available resources for the victims of these disasters. the creation of a european observatory on drought and desertification is also an important initiative that we must promote. i would like to highlight the main new features of the solidarity fund, which will make it possible to respond more quickly and effectively to disasters that member states cannot cope with on their own. along with natural disasters, eligibility is extended to industrial disasters, terrorist attacks and public health emergencies. we must be firm in this parliament on the proposal to lower the damage threshold from eur 3 000 million to eur 1 000 million in order to be able to mobilise this fund, which will be able to be used more easily than before thanks to this measure. we must not lose sight of the need to identify the emergency operations essential for the restoration of the infrastructure and equipment affected, as set out in the regulation. the provision of air and ground facilities and the provision of drinking water are clear examples of this, not to mention the technical assistance which will be made possible by the commission. this instrument must respond quickly and effectively, with financial aid, to extreme situations of drought, fire and flooding, without forgetting the victims of these disasters, who need immediate help and assistance, and to whom europe cannot turn its back. we are talking about the solidarity fund and we must not lose sight of this concept, because the citizens of europe expect us to respond to their demands. we are talking about a fund which is a political instrument and as such must solve the problems of the areas affected and the people who live in them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to concentrate on the fires, because of the limited time i have. as you know, a delegation visited spain and portugal and we were able to see the scale of the ecological and human tragedy on the ground. we have heard from the affected sectors how the gradual abandonment of the rural world and of traditional activities is the breeding ground for these catastrophes. we have heard complaints from those who accuse the competent authorities of neglecting the forests. we must, for our part, denounce the absence of a real policy of fire prevention and the softness of the penalties for allegedly set-up fires. it is regrettable - but it must be said because it is strictly true - that there has been a lack of coordination between the responsible public administrations, which, in the case of guadalajara, has undoubtedly aggravated the catastrophe. ladies and gentlemen, a separate chapter is needed for the victims of these disasters, who, in this case, have felt forgotten in their own land. it is unacceptable, from any democratic point of view, that a commission of inquiry into the fire was set up in castilla-la mancha and that the families of the victims were refused access to the building. it was the european parliament that had to come to correct such unqualified political behaviour. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. at least they've been heard. it will then be for the courts to judge whether or not there are responsibilities, beyond the policies, which must certainly be assumed. i thank the committee on regional development for approving the amendment i tabled on victims and which i hope the house will support with its vote. it calls on the commission to make available the necessary resources to alleviate the suffering and material needs of all victims of natural disasters and their immediate relatives, through the european union solidarity fund and other community instruments. finally, i welcome the reform of the solidarity fund and hope that the commission will, after the mandate of this parliament, present a proposal for a directive on fire prevention and management at european union level.
mr president, the resolutions we are going to adopt this morning reflect the truth of what has been the important work of parliament on natural disasters affecting people and territories in the european union. these texts, which represent the house's views on the matter, express what we have been saying all along: the need to define and implement european policies to prevent such disasters, to take immediate action to combat them effectively and to compensate for the damage caused. we now expect parliament's proposals to be taken up and responded to by the commission and the council and we will press for this to happen. but the texts we are going to adopt also reveal the lies and the agitation which, in some cases and from certain political sectors and forces, particularly in my country, have been poured out on the occasion of this action by the european parliament, misleading even as to its very nature. even today, in this debate, we have heard statements that are contrary to the truth - half-truths always are - and that are completely unrelated to the opinion of parliament, which is expressed in what we are going to approve and nothing else. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is a behaviour that needs no qualification, since it portrays the person who takes it on. i am convinced that our citizens will be able to identify each one. we are saddened by the effects of catastrophes that have hit us hard and saddened that we have had to devote time, energy and stomach to countering unfortunate manipulations. however, our confidence in the men and women of our land, our commitment to the truth and our dedication to making the proposals which parliament will adopt today a reality, are our best legacy. that is why we have worked, we are working and we will continue to work.
mr president, a new stage is opening in nepal after 10 years of civil war and almost 13 000 deaths. king gyanendra's decision in february 2005 to dissolve the government and declare a state of emergency has been the final straw in the nepali's patience. and, let's say it loud and clear, it was the demonstrations for democracy and peace that forced this change. these demonstrations, which were severely repressed by the police and which left several people dead and many injured, have forced the king to abandon the de facto military dictatorship, to restore parliament and to hand over the administration to a government formed by a multiparty alliance. a new opportunity now looms on the horizon to reach a peace agreement with the maoist guerrillas, who had previously announced certain ceasefires that had been rejected by the king; now, instead, the ceasefire has been accepted. what we do hope is that the temporary nature of this ceasefire will soon become permanent. in the meantime, the change of arms in the political arena is to be welcomed, as evidenced by the agreement the maoists have signed with the multiparty coalition, to hold elections for a constituent assembly soon. this resolution also allows us to welcome the government's repeal of the royal decrees restricting freedom of the press and imposing strict controls on ngos and to demand the release of all political prisoners, journalists and human rights activists still in prison. the european union must be very attentive and wisely accompany this process. for example, the new government has decided to freeze the purchase of military aircraft and weapons by the previous administration; the council and the member states must respect this decision and must keep military aid frozen. now nepal no longer needs weapons, but to recover its democratic and institutional normality. the european union must also, as has been said, contribute to the peace process by providing demobilization assistance and financial aid for development and humanitarian programmes and by sending electoral and human rights observers to the region.
author. mr president, in view of the current situation, in which there is a high risk of crossborder spread of various infectious diseases, such as avian influenza or sars, it is important to establish as rapid and effective a prevention and response mechanism as possible. it is therefore necessary that all regions of the world participate directly and without obstacles in international health cooperation networks, forums and programmes. taiwan is a territory with over 23 million people and is not covered by the protection of the united nations in the event of an epidemic on the island. in this resolution, therefore, we call on the commission and the council once again to urge the government of the people's republic of china, taking advantage of the particularly privileged relations we currently have, to accept that taiwan should be granted observer status in the world health organization or at least in the world health assembly.
member of the commission. mr president, after nine fruitless efforts to join the world health organisation as an observer, taiwan has indicated that it is now considering lowering its ambitions and asking instead for meaningful participation in the work of the who. that means that taiwan has decided that, in this area, substance and pragmatism are more important than legal form. that is the position the eu supports. in may 2004, the irish presidency, explaining why the eu did not support a vote on the issue of taiwan’s observer status in the who, asked the who secretariat for taiwanese officials to be involved in technical work and meetings of the who where appropriate. the irish presidency referred to the who principle of the ‘enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health’ as one of the fundamental rights of every human being and also to the precedent that had been created by the involvement of and practical cooperation with health officials from taiwan during the sars crisis, which could serve as an example. in particular, in view of the arrival of avian influenza and the risk that implies, the austrian presidency, after discussion with member states and the commission, again took up the issue of practical cooperation with the who. subsequently, on 2 may, eu representatives in geneva had a very constructive meeting with the director-general of the who. in fact, over the last year, representatives from taiwan have participated in a number of technical meetings taking place under who auspices. our clear understanding is that the who secretariat is prepared to further explore possibilities for taiwan’s meaningful participation in the technical work of the who. we can only welcome this and will follow the matter with great interest.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 18 may 2006.
i am pleased to inform you that a delegation from the maldivian people's parliament is present in the official gallery. the members of the delegation from the mexican parliament, comprising a group of senators and deputies, are also present in the official gallery, as is mrs aminetu haidar, winner of the juan maría bandrés prize... (applause)... for defending the right of asylum and solidarity with the refugees of the saharawi people.
before i give the floor to the president of the belgian government, i must remind you of the victims of the terrible earthquake in indonesia, which killed almost 6 000 people, injured 20 000 and affected between 100 000 and 200 000 people. i have conveyed our solidarity to the indonesian government and i am pleased that international aid - and in particular european aid - is being rapidly mobilised in support of those affected by this new tragedy.
do not use the question of order to start a debate among yourselves. mr schulz referred to an article in the rules of procedure which allows the examination of a legislative proposal to be intervened in by drawing attention to the subject of human rights. the matter is closed.
the next item is the debate on the future of europe. ladies and gentlemen, our sitting today is innovative, because we have the presence of the president of the government of the kingdom of belgium, who has been invited to speak before the plenary session to feed the political reflection in which the european union is immersed. as you know, the plenary of our parliamentary assembly is only addressed by the heads of state, in formal sessions which are not followed by debate, or by the heads of government of the country holding the rotating presidency of the union. but we have decided to invite those heads of government who wish to participate in the debate on the future of europe and to join us in their reflections on the subject. today we have the honour of welcoming mr verhofstad, the author of a small but striking book 'the united states of europe' which is an important contribution to the current debate. i would also like to remind you that belgium has just completed its parliamentary marathon to ratify the constitutional treaty, since in belgium it took the assent of seven parliamentary assemblies, and i would point out that at the next european council, the subject on which we are meeting today will undoubtedly be the subject of important decisions.
prime minister of belgium. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i would first of all like to thank president borrell fontelles and all those who took the initiative in inviting me here today to begin a series of debates which you will be holding. i would like to thank you first of all for organising this initiative, and i have already noted in the introduction that the vitality of the european parliament is still the same as it was in 2001, when i came as president of the european council to defend the decisions of our presidency. i am very flattered, mr president, by the invitation, but this initiative certainly shows something else, namely the commitment and perseverance of the european parliament. i would like to remind you that your parliament has played an important, if not decisive, role in the work of the convention. i am very pleased that the european parliament is taking this initiative and with it is taking up its responsibility to shape the future of europe. i would not like to begin, ladies and gentlemen, my speech on the future of the european union without first reminding you of a date from the recent past, namely 1 may 2004, just two years ago. a milestone in the history of europe. i would say that it is a real highlight for the european union. sixty years after the division of power in yalta, forty-eight years after the hungarian uprising, forty-three years after the building of the infamous berlin wall, thirty-five years after the prague spring, it was a great day, because that day meant - as our colleague bronislaw geremek put it - the real end of the second world war and the real birth of a united european union. i would like to remind you of that day because today many people have what i would call a particularly short memory when they talk about the enlargement of europe and the european union. the union would have absorbed the former soviet satellite states too quickly. the union would have been enlarged too quickly. the union would also have reached its natural limits, the limits, the limits of its so-called absorption capacity. but what is "too soon" for people who have been enslaved for almost 50 years? what is "too soon" for peoples to whom we had hardly looked - until they had actually freed themselves from the communist yoke? and what are the natural frontiers, the natural frontiers of the union, where in the world are they, when we see that european cities like belgrade or dubrovnik are still outside the european union? and what absorption capacity are we talking about? is it the one in our head or was it more like the one in, i would say, our money bag, in our wallet? what i want to make clear at the beginning of my speech is that thinking about the future of the union should not be done in either-or schemes. it's either the extension or the floor. it's either turkey or the constitution. the history and the direction of history are, in fact, unambiguous. the union must be enlarged. it is the only guarantee of lasting peace and stability on the old continent. it is the only guarantee that tomorrow bosnia or kosovo, in short the whole of the balkans, will not be in flames again. it is also the only hope in the long term that countries like ukraine, for example, will become stable democracies in the future. at the same time, the union must be further deepened, european integration must be pursued without any reduction. in any case, mr president, - and this is the heart of the debate today - the period of stagnation in europe must come to an end. the lack of progress in european integration does not stem from the outcome of the french and dutch referendums, as is commonly assumed today. the citizens of europe have been experiencing a crisis for some time: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to add to that list the lisbon strategy. there is don't get me wrong nothing wrong with the objectives of that strategy. but the method used, the so-called open method of coordination, is far too weak to give a new decisive impetus to european unification and european integration after the successful introduction of the euro. (applause) i think, mr president, that there should not be a choice between deepening or enlarging, as we are being told. both are necessary. nor should there be a choice between europe as an economic free trade area or europe as a political entity. here too the course of history is clear and unambiguous. from a unipolar world dominated by the united states of america, we are rapidly evolving into a multipolar world in which countries like china and india are rightly claiming a dominant role. if europe is to play its part in this new world order economically, politically and militarily, then in fact political union is the only way out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my illustrious predecessor, paul henri spaak, expressed it a little more cynically, so many decades ago. he said: europe is not made up of the smaller countries. the only relevant distinction which remains is that some countries understand it and others still refuse to recognise it. (applause) it is paul-henri spaak who has this, pas moi. in short, mr president, the question is not whether the union will transform itself into a more federal, political entity. the question is when it will happen or, better still, will it happen in time. that is the fundamental question. and it is on that last question, the question of whether we will make the leap in time to full political union, that i have legitimate doubts today which i would like to share with the european parliament. the referendums in france and the netherlands on 29 may and 1 june 2005 did indeed deal a blow to the creation of european political union. the rejection of a constitution which, i admit, although far from ideal, could have brought about a great deal more democracy, more transparency and a more rapid decision-making process, was a blow to those who are working for political union in europe. the impact of both referendums - we must not deny this - was so great that it is still unclear today whether the constitution can survive or not. the ratification process is still going on, and 15 countries have now ratified the constitution, but let's be honest with ourselves. some member states may have been relieved after the french and dutch "no". in any case, they moved the referendum to the greek calendar. in any case, the outcome of both referendums left europe, and therefore all of us, in a state of confusion. a confusion - let us admit it - which today, exactly one year later, has still not really come to an end. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the last few weeks - let us admit that - have indeed brought some new ideas. but i doubt, as you do, that they will be able to put a lot of people on the hook. for example - and i do not mean this in a derogatory way - the europe of projects, whereas we need the opposite, a project for europe. or the idea of everyone making a new commitment, a new european pledge. or the intention to save perhaps part of the constitutional treaty by 2009, but without the certainty that it will not again meet with a 'no', a 'no' or a 'no' in the coming years. in any event, mr president, it is to be expected that in a few weeks' time we shall be extending the period of reflection in the european council. elections in france and the netherlands, an important presidency ahead. we have to wait to cut knots, so they say. however, to make the timing of action dependent on an election in some member state or on who wields the hammer in the council does not always seem to me to be the best approach. because there's always a national election coming up somewhere. and waiting for a presidency is to run the risk that eventually no one will understand the urgency of the matter. you know, the habit, the wear and tear. why should we, in fact, still be concerned about the future of europe? it is, in fact, the way things are going, with no project and no constitution. so my belief is the opposite. there is a tremendous urgency to do something today. and the reasons are simple: economic growth in europe is lagging behind, our political influence in the world is waning and our military strength is inadequate. but to know what to do, it is important first to look carefully in the mirror and thus find answers together to questions such as: why did the people turn their backs on europe in those referendums? what went wrong in france and the netherlands? and what is the real motive behind this in two states which, although at the origin of the european union, were founding members of this union? i believe that there are two main answers or explanations to be given. the first - and this is also a form of self-criticism - is that many national political leaders have for some time been painting a negative image of europe in their own countries. when things go well, the feathers are stuck on the national hat, but when things go wrong, europe is always pointed at. and we must also dare to admit that europe is a very willing victim in this respect. if you kick it or give it away, there's usually no return or response. even if, in fact, the most grotesque untruths are being sold. for example, the fact that brussels would be home to a huge caucasian bureaucracy. what is the truth? the truth is that some 24 000 civil servants work in the european institutions. that is less than the civil service of virtually every major european city in europe. europe would also be a huge money-spending machine. i will not deny that there are times when money is not being spent wrongly, and there is a european court of auditors for that, but the truth is that the budget of the european union is 20 times smaller than that of the united states of america and 40 times smaller than that of all the other national, regional and local governments in europe put together. i have just calculated, mr president, that each european citizen pays less than five euros a week to europe, a fraction of what he or she pays to his or her national, regional and local authorities. and for that five euros, the citizens have been getting peace and prosperity for years, some for more than half a century, including us belgians. but we all know how it goes in life, and especially in politics, gossip is more persistent than the truth, even when that gossip is proclaimed in a way that is appropriate and inappropriate. but there is a second, and i think more decisive, reason why the citizens are voting no in both referendums. he felt that europe no longer offered a satisfactory answer to his many questions and concerns. i think he sees the european engine sputtering in this era of unbridled globalisation, the european economy in a state of breathlessness. unemployment remains high, businesses and jobs are often relocating and a strong european response remains to be seen. there is also cross-border crime. but let us be honest, we had to wait - i remember it well - for the twin towers to be brought down before an agreement could be reached in our midst on the european arrest warrant. the same thing is happening again with the european patent. everyone knows that this instrument, the european patent, is absolutely necessary to make up for our backwardness in research and development. but despite all the council's declarations of intent, this is likely to drag on for years. so i think that, if you consider that, it's not surprising that the european citizen would turn down a referendum. and let's be honest, in fact, it's not surprising that he's dropping out. we are all too aware that the union as it now functions is not sufficiently capable of formulating strong and unambiguous answers to the concerns it has. and we are all too well aware, in fact, all together, of why we are unable to formulate strong and unambiguous answers. until we have finally set europe on the path of a federation where unanimity is abolished or at least reduced to the strict minimum, europe will always be incapable of responding quickly and forcefully to challenges. in other words, mr president, a confederation based on an intergovernmental method, on the principle of unanimity, can only do one thing, namely to paralyse our union. i think that 50 years after the union's inception it is time to make a final choice: confederation or federation. unanimity or qualified majority. intergovernmental method or community approach. a directory headed by a number of member states or a strengthened european democracy based on an active european commission and a fully-fledged european parliament, which is the essence of a european democracy. let me illustrate, mr president, the crucial importance of this turning point in the main challenge which concerns us, and i believe that the main challenge which concerns us at the moment is the modernization of the european economy. if we look at the figures, what are they today and what do they tell us? the average growth of gdp in europe has reached 2.3% over the last ten years, compared with 3.3% in the united states. in europe, total employment increased by 9% over the same period. in the united states, this increase was 14%. much more strikingly - we must admit this - if, in the 1980s, per capita income in europe and the united states was still at the same level, today, european income is 30% lower than its american counterpart. and i have not yet touched on the case of china, india or japan, which we talk about a lot. last year, china recorded an economic growth of nearly 10%. the european union's trade deficit is still in surplus, but we are also seeing deficits with the asian region of over 100 billion euros. and this deficit is expected to increase in the years ahead. the european union's response to this problem is the lisbon strategy. the objectives pursued by this strategy are not in doubt, i repeat, not in doubt. europe must become 'the most competitive knowledge economy in the world'. but the method adopted to this end, which allows the member states to design themselves the way forward to achieve this objective, is ineffective. the facts show that in many areas we are getting weaker and weaker in the race. the reason is simple. the lisbon strategy uses the open method of coordination, a form of intergovernmental approach based mainly on best practice, benchmarking and peer review. with the exception of the formulation of certain general objectives, the role of the european institutions is limited to the preparation of the classification and tables for drawing up the report. this is precisely what others are saying in their reports: the world competitiveness centre (imd) or the world economic forum (wef) are the most important. the only difference between the reports drawn up under the lisbon strategy and those of these economic institutes is that the latter show that almost all european countries are in recession. some people will say that this is naturally the consequence of the high value of the euro. but it is above all the consequence of a lack of common reforms in the european union. in short, while we aspire to make our knowledge economy the most competitive in the world, it is clear that our competitiveness is in danger of diminishing every day. i must conclude by saying that i tried to defend myself in the council, but also, already, in the european parliament, for example when i had been invited by the economic and monetary committee. this conclusion is clear as day: the intergovernmental method, without commitments, which forms the basis of the lisbon strategy, is not working properly. (applause from the centre) we need a more binding and community approach. a socio-economic governance in the proper sense of the term. a common socioeconomic policy for europe, the union drawing up the guidelines for the necessary reforms. these reforms are all the more indispensable if we are to face the growing competition from the new growth poles and safeguard the social model of which we are so proud in europe. these reforms require interventions in industry, innovation, research, taxation, but also in the labour market, pension systems, social security, health care, to name a few. the method to be followed, and i do not want ambiguity in the subject, cannot be confined to blind harmonization; i am against blind harmonization, or to say the other things, a standardization which conceals the diversity between the member states. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the nun! what i am advocating is the implementation of a convergence policy, an approach similar to the one which came to fruition with the stability and growth pact and led to the introduction of the euro, because this is what was at the heart of the stability pact: the commission has already done so. unlike harmonisation, which is based on absolute values and which ignores the diversity of europe, convergence opted for the fixing of the minimum and maximum levels, the fourchettes, of a framework within which the various member states of the union must operate and modernise their economies. the maxima are indispensable for instilling a will to reform in the member states. the minimum is indispensable to prevent social dumping. convergence also enables the various member states to follow a progressive evolution in parallel and the union to regain its competitiveness vis-à-vis the other growing regions of the world, although it avoids deadly internal competition and the union is not forced to renounce its social component. i also believe that the european citizen will thus be able to find in the union a solid partner, a federation of peoples and nations capable, this time, of providing a response to the challenges of globalisation. in any event, by radically overturning the lisbon strategy and by reinforcing it with a more explicitly community-wide approach, the union will be able to resume the successes of the past. it must be recognised that neither the internal market nor the euro would have been possible without a powerful community engine. it must be said today that for the internal market this motor is in the form of the principle of mutual recognition and qualified majority voting as developed by mr delors. the euro, for its part, owes its introduction to the maastricht criteria and the standards of the stability and growth pact, as well as to being a community engine. ladies and gentlemen, if a new community economic strategy of this type is highly desirable for the union, it is certainly indispensable for the euro area. in the long term, a common currency and a monetary union are bound to succeed if they are not relayed by a common approach to social and economic challenges. in fact, a lack of reforms in one country will inevitably have negative repercussions on the health status of other countries, and therefore the whole area. if one were to doubt the necessity of economic governance at least in a monetary union, one need only imagine the united states of america with a single currency, the dollar, with a central bank, the federal reserve, but where socio-economic policy would be different in each of the fifty states. "unbearable", that would be our judgment. or, this situation is unmanageable, we are experiencing it today, at the level of the european union, or at least in the euro zone. and then there is the question of why we are not experiencing the same economic growth as other regions of the world! that is why i have been calling for some time, mr president, for an initiative to be taken to strengthen the eurogroup. this is not to exclude anyone, but i repeat that if the 25 member states could work together to develop a new community strategy, i would certainly give priority to such a joint approach. but if that were to prove impossible, what i fear every day a little more, it is out of the question to undertake anything. moreover, when i speak of the eurogroup, i am referring not only to the current members of the eurozone, but also to all the countries which have been called upon by a conventional clause to join the eurozone. in other words, no one is excluded from membership and participation in the euro area. what could such a strengthening of the euro area look like to create the socio-economic governance that is so lacking in the union? i also think that the reinforcement of the institutions is as important as the content. in particular, i am thinking of the joint preparation of the eu spring council, the frequent drafting of reports and recommendations for the euro area by the european institutions, the fixing of common macroeconomic starting points when national budgets are drawn up, the drawing up - very important! - of the convergence criteria in social, fiscal and economic matters, the convening of the meetings of the wider eurogroup, not only by the ministers of finance, but also by the ministers of labour, social affairs and science - my minister of finance agrees. finally, i am thinking again of autonomous representation in the international financial bodies, an approach which is obvious when there is a monetary union and a single currency. - what ? ladies and gentlemen, so far i have dealt almost exclusively with the economic challenges facing the union. it would not be serious not to speak of the other areas where we need europe, not less, but more. so, in terms of justice and security, we should optimise the fight against illegal immigration, organised crime and terrorism. in the field of research and development, i repeat, and i apologize, the european patent becomes an urgent necessity. the same goes for a common foreign policy. on this last point, however, it is essential to be aware that only a european defence can bring us closer to such a common foreign policy. my personal experience in 2003, shortly before the outbreak of the war in iraq, was painful but instructive. at the time, in 2003, it appeared perfectly impossible to exchange views on the iraqi crisis within the european council. divided like we were, we'd all prefer to avoid playing cards on the table. in short, it is only when we develop common instruments, such as a european army and diplomacy, that we will be obliged to announce the colour ensemble - and at the appropriate time - in the event of an international crisis. i know that the development of a european army or defence may be perceived by some atlanticists as a blasphemy or a negation of our transatlantic obligations. or c'est pas le cas. i'm not sure what you mean. in the 20th century, nato is changing, probably passing from the status of a regional defence alliance to that of an international security network composed of allies and partners. at the same time, there is a strong case for tackling questions of international security in an increasingly explicit manner in the context of renewed international cooperation, rather than continuing to appeal to coalitions of the willing, as we are doing now. the latter have the disadvantage of being more easily disagreed with at every change of government. it is in this new 'international security network' whose foundations will be laid in riga that european defence will be developed and integrated as an autonomous european pillar. it is the case that the resistance must be defeated for the future. the part, for example, of some americans, who cannot see nato as an alliance of countries. the european union is not a military force, but a political force. but i believe that ultimately, and remaining in the midst of these two theses, it will be possible to overcome these resistances. and it is a testimony to the european operations in bosnia, macedonia and the congo. in any case, the continuation of the development of european defence, which is supposed to function as an autonomous organ and as a pillar of nato, is urgent and indispensable. we cannot present ourselves as the moral conscience of the whole world without a military counterweight. we cannot continue to ask the americans to come to our aid when we are faced with a civil war on our own continent, as was the case in bosnia and kosovo. president, if we do all that, what happens to the constitution and the draft constitution we have? there are, of course, theoretically several possibilities, mr president. we could opt for the status quo, consider the constitution lost and just continue to work on the basis of nice and the previously concluded treaties. but i do not think that is a good option, because then we will continue with unanimity, then we will continue with the vetoes and perhaps also with immobility. we could opt, which sometimes makes sense, for the pick-and-choose approach, if i may put it that way, where we try to save the most attractive elements of the constitution, but then my question is always, yes, but what elements? i can imagine that each member of the council will have a different priority. for one, it will be the subsidiarity test, to give an example, and for the other, for example, greater powers for the european parliament. i'll let you guess. in the end, there's a good chance that at the end of the ride, we might come back to more or less the same constitution. the question is, of course, whether ratification in two or three years' time will be more likely than today. we could also, mr president, adopt a roll-back attitude. what is a roll-back position? that is an attitude in which we interpret the result of the referendums and say, this is a sign that the people actually want less europe and actually want to return the european project to a pure free trade area. but that, mr president, would be an abdication, that would be treason. it would be to run our european ambitions against the tide of history. the european integration has been an undeniable success so far. it has proven to be the best remedy against poverty, against dictatorship, against war. it has brought us lasting peace, social protection, unprecedented prosperity. so i think we should stop being cynical about europe and the union as a nuisance that we have to deal with in our lives today. but so, if we look at the matter both practically and politically, there's really only one option left and that is to proceed with the ratification of the constitution. not only does every country, every citizen of the union, have the right to express his opinion on this constitution, but let us not forget that in contrast to the two 'no' votes in the netherlands and france, there are now 15 'yes' votes in 15 other european member states. i think that europe would not be a democracy if it did not take account of this simple mathematical fact. moreover, mr president, i also believe that those who have put ratification in the fridge in recent months have in fact the duty to start or resume the ratification procedure. and i'll tell you why. we agreed this when we approved the draft constitution in the european council. we have added a special clause to that effect in the constitution, namely clause 30 to the constitution. what does article 30 of the constitution say? it states that if four-fifths of the member states have ratified the treaty establishing a constitution for europe two years after it was signed and one or more member states have encountered difficulties in ratifying it, the european council will discuss the matter. the european council has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i personally think that four fifths of the member states are by no means an unrealistic map within the european union, if at least everyone takes responsibility. and if we achieve this quorum of four-fifths, i think that a completely new situation would arise in the union, a situation which would open up new prospects in the face of today's blockages. i cannot imagine that in that case, when the fourth and fifth are in place and we meet, the council will simply go to the agenda, will not discuss anything and will simply find that the necessary ratifications are lacking in the union. then that statement in the constitution would be meaningless. but, mr president, - and that is my message today - whether we achieve this quorum of four-fifths or not, nothing stands in the way of further integration, as i described just now. - no, it's the opposite. i think it would be a good thing if, in addition to the track of ratification of this constitution, or any other constitution, a second track were opened on the basis of declaration 30 to the constitution. it is a track that does not require any amendments to the treaty and a place where all the countries that want to be part of it can be involved, as i described in detail earlier. in other words, what i am advocating, mr president, is that we should quickly develop a new strategy, a new strategy that would follow two lines. on the one hand, we must proceed with ratification, fully implement and give effect to declaration 30 of the constitution and, on the other hand, without requiring any amendment to the treaty, make a new and important leap forward in european unification on the basis of a number of points i have just mentioned. i believe that this two-track strategy is the only way to make a positive contribution to the present uncertain period, which could otherwise drag on for years, and above all not to lose time. because time is, i think, the last thing we in europe can afford to lose today. mr president, i have decided: 52 years ago, the european defence community failed. we all know that this was after a 'no' vote in the french assembly. the defeat was great, but the european leaders of the time did not let themselves be defeated. in fact, they knew perfectly well what to do. there was no need for a period of reflection, no questioning, and no opinion poll. they negotiated for two years in a place in hertoginnendal - less than two kilometres from here - and with the result that came out of it, they went to rome, they signed a treaty and that led to the creation of the european economic community and in that way they have in fact put the europe that we love so much on the rails once and for all. that was 52 years ago. what is needed today is exactly the same. because the situation today is not so different from that of 52 years ago. the majority of the french and dutch people have indeed opposed the constitution, but we must not be disappointed again. i think it is time for a big leap forward. so we must now also put europe back on track with a bold policy. but the question is, mr president, why has not what happened 52 years ago happened yet? what's the difference? what's the need? i think there is only one thing that is needed and that is courage, political courage, the same courage that jean monnet, alcide de gasperi, konrad adenauer, max kohnstamm, paul-henri spaak and robert schuman showed in the past. and what is that, that courage? well, that's the courage to get up after a major setback, straighten your back and then just keep going. that's what we need most right now. (applause from the left)
thank you very much, mr. prime minister, thank you for your long and penetrating exposition. the chairmen of the political groups will now have the floor and then you will have the opportunity to reply to their comments.
thank you very much, mr. wurtz. in the next few days of this debate we shall be considering a more consistent way for the political group chairmen to express themselves. but now we have to go on with the time distribution we had planned.
take it easy, mr. schulz, take it easy. please discuss this with each other when the plenary session is over and outside the chamber.
mr verhofstadt, as you can see, this is a pluralist parliament.
prime minister of belgium. mr president, you have nothing to worry about. i have to deal with mr vanhecke's troops in my own parliament too. and i've noticed that there's not really much difference between what's being told there and what he's coming here to tell. for him, europe is the church tower and nothing more. that is why europe is not to be considered any further, it is only interested in what happens within a five-kilometre radius of it. i have another opinion on europe. i believe that europe has a destiny and that this destiny must be pursued. i believe that the history of europe has a direction and that it must never be forgotten. it is history that teaches us what to do, even if our points of view are sometimes very different. there are those who think that things are going too fast, or that they are going too slowly, or that other concepts must be developed. but there is one thing that remains obvious: it's history. but history teaches us that when we were divided and turned in on ourselves, europe was in crisis, there was war, there were civil wars and permanence. i would therefore ask those who now claim not to want to enlarge europe, for example to the balkans, why would we refuse stability to these countries? if they do not join the european union, it is well known that in the next two or three years this part of the world will again be subject to violence and war. (applause from the centre) naturally, the countries concerned must fulfil all the conditions. but those who today claim, a priori, that these countries, these peoples cannot return, that there are borders, are in reality saying that they do not want for themselves what we have enjoyed for fifty years in the european union: peace, stability and well-being. this, we cannot accept. it is selfishness that expresses itself all the time and it must not be given up by the present. that is the challenge of the moment, but not the question of turkey. (applause) turkey is only used here, is it not, because selfishness is being exhibited. turkey is not to be taken lightly. turkey or not turkey, if only one can show that we all better turn back to ourselves. that is what the last interventions we heard are all about in practice. mr farage, who has just said all sorts of things. i can tell you, mr farage, that i am saying exactly the same thing in the council as i am saying here in parliament. that is absolutely necessary, because you cannot say one thing in the european council and then the opposite in london or another city in europe. i try to give exactly the same message to both the council and parliament. (applause) what counts most, mr president, is indeed the attempt, during the council of 15 and 16 june, which will be a very important council, to decide how to continue the process. once again, you have nothing against the fact of prolonging the period of reflection. i shall nevertheless ask for a reflection on the declaration annexed to the constitution, which was voted by the convention, by the european council and by the countries of the european union which ratified the treaty. this does not mean that we are going beyond what the majority of french people or the majority of dutch people think. that is why i am proposing a second strategy, in parallel with the continuation of the ratification process. it is true, indeed, that we must respond to the expectations of the citizens, to their fears. we are not going to be able to do that by saying: 'we have a constitution.' it is not the fact that they have a constitution that reassures them. it's not how things work. it is above all we who need the constitution to make progress in a number of areas. and, besides, we need concrete policies and what i think is lacking most in the european union is socio-economic governance. why do you not understand that a monetary union without a common political, social and economic strategy is a mistake? (applause from the centre) this could already be, as i hope, the conclusion of the council of 15 and 16 june. we would have done a step forward and not only for ourselves, but for the institutions. perhaps you should plead guilty, monsieur poettering. at the beginning, with the laeken declaration, the word constitution was used with a little precipitation for the time. it remains that today we must recognize that we need a dual strategy. there is a constitution, which we may have to renegotiate in order to achieve unanimity. there is also a credible socio-economic policy which you, the council and parliament, must not wait to put into practice because that is what the people demand. this is the answer to globalisation. europe is not the source of globalisation, no, it is the right answer to globalisation and this is the message that we have not yet sufficiently developed and given to the people of europe. (applause from the centre)
mr president, a great europeanist, fernando álvarez de miranda, was telling me the other day in my country that the problem with europeans is that they have lost their enthusiasm for europe. and it is true: europeans are often europeans without knowing it, and we are not aware of the great progress that the union has made; we do not attribute it to europe and instead we blame the union for our small frustrations. and now we are in this period of reflection, trying to show that europe works. and many times - and you've said it with an example - i don't know if we're doing the right thing. because, for example, we say that europe must legitimise itself by creating jobs, but does europe - the european union - have the instruments to create jobs, or are these national instruments? if we set ourselves targets which are not the responsibility of the union but of the member states, and fail to achieve them, the union will have to bear the consequences. i therefore propose to you, mr verhofstadt - and you can do it, because you are the prime minister of your country - that you one day take the following test to show what life would be like for citizens if europe did not exist: you could, for example, on 29 may or 1 june, set up border posts between your country and france and between your country and the netherlands, and put customs officers at those border posts, and have them ask french or dutch citizens for their passports, and tell them that french car insurance is not valid in belgium, and that they have to get a green card. and, for example, one day - just one day - you introduce the belgian franc, and the euro is no longer valid in belgium and the euro has to be changed; and when french and dutch citizens return from their beautiful country, mr president, these customs officers make them fill out a form with the goods they have bought in their country. that is how you will see, mr president, what the european union is all about. (applause) i would like to thank
mr verhofstadt, i believe that today you have written the next chapter of your book the united states of europe, which i, like many others, read with great interest and pleasure. because your book lacked the 'what to do' after the analysis of what we need, and today you have said it very clearly: to continue the process of ratification of the european constitution. but why continue the process of ratifying the european constitution? so that there are more countries that have ratified it, of course, but also so that the reflection period is real. to what end? the aim is to explain to the citizens the cost of the non-constitution or, positively, the added value of the european constitution. the time will come when we find a solution to unlock this constitutional crisis. it will be after the french and dutch elections. now, i say to you: if the constitution was made between governments and parliaments in a convention, the solution to this crisis must be reached between governments and parliaments. and i think that was one of the great conclusions of the parliamentary forum of 8 and 9 may, which had a very positive outcome. we must be orthodox in the progress of the constitution, in its content, and heterodox in the final form of the solution. i think we agree with you on that from this house.
belgian prime minister. mr president, i should like to thank all those who took part in this debate. i will start with the question of statement 30 because that statement has a rather strange history. the principle of four fifths of the member states was already included in the original proposals tabled by the prodi commission. however, it appeared to say that if four fifths of the member states ratified the treaty, then we were moving forward, which was, of course, unacceptable to some members of the european council. subsequently, the convention and then the intergovernmental conference wanted to retain this concept of four fifths. how was it to be presented? we could not say that if four fifths of the member states ratified the treaty, we were moving forward, because that would ultimately mean abolishing the unanimity rule, which will have to be done one day. the americans did it in 1787 at the convention of philadelphia. it was a seizure of power by nine of the thirteen states that existed at the time. so what did it take to keep the concept of four-fifths? the final decision was to adopt the formula 'the european council shall deal with the matter' in the declaration annexed to the treaty, whereas in reality the concept of the four fifths has a very different origin, since the original aim was not to organise a debate within the european council. the reason for this concept, which goes back to the convention, to the proposals of the prodi commission, and which was not finally taken up in the final text, either by the convention or by the intergovernmental conference, was to find a solution to a particular situation. who was the concept of the 'new' really meant to be? certainly not to the french, but rather to that part of the union which is on the side of mr kirkhope and others, at any rate a part on the other side of the channel. that's what we thought. we said: if everyone says yes and the british say no, we will still meet again in the european council to continue. this was the motif behind the concept of four-fifths. and it is these unfortunate french people who are voting no who are confronting us with the problem of the application of the four fifths. i agree with the substance of the matter: the ideal would be to have a system in which unanimity has disappeared and is replaced by something else, a european referendum or a four-fifths majority, for example. but to do that, we must go through referendums, through popular consultations, and this also in the countries that said no. the reason i'm talking about a second way is there. you can do anything: continue the ratification, very well, i ask; use the four-fifths principle, very well; extend the reflection period, very well; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this work, between us, is going to be very interesting but it would be a really big mistake not to do something else right away. so we are going to deal with the four fifths, the declaration 30 of an intergovernmental conference; maybe we'll change this or that in the draft constitution, otherwise, we'll never get through the two countries that said no. these are obviously necessary and are the first steps. but it would be a huge mistake not to open up a second way without amending the treaty. but all that i have said in my introduction, all the proposals i have made do not call for any amendment of the treaty. another great advantage is that france and the netherlands are already part of the eurozone. we don't have to start a whole debate about whether they want to participate or not. the second aspect i want to stress with regard to cooperation within the euro area is that it is an open cooperation, not a closed club, but a reality that exists and will be expanded with the entry of slovenia no later than 1 january 2007. i do not know whether the ecofin council has completed its examination of the other countries, on the basis of the commission and the european central bank's opinion, but these other countries will nevertheless join, perhaps not in 2007, but then, it will be on 1 january 2008. so we're sure that this group is growing. why not move forward with him in concrete ways? because if the citizens said no in the referendum in france, it is because there is no socio-economic convergence and we cannot meet their expectations at the social level. we must therefore go both ways and, while it is true that it would be a mistake to abandon ratification of the constitution, it would be a grave mistake to take the other way, that of the socioeconomic governance that everyone wants, without delay. this is perhaps the most important conclusion to be drawn from the referendum in france and certainly also in the netherlands. someone said, i believe it was my kind predecessor, jean-luc dehaene: i am not advocating that we should do enlargement now and not do everything else, i am advocating that we should do both at the same time. but to be able to do both at the same time, we must have the courage, either this year or next year at the latest, to start the process of socioeconomic governance in the european union. otherwise, we will continue to fight for years and years, to talk endlessly about the constitution, with the result that we will lose even more support from the citizens of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you very much, mr. prime minister. it was an interesting debate, no doubt. we are very grateful to you for devoting all your time and your intellectual input to the debate on the future of europe. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the council's position was and is clear: the fight against terrorism must be conducted in accordance with all international human rights and humanitarian standards, everywhere in the world. we are in agreement that there must be no legal vacuum. it is our common understanding in the council that guantanamo remains a matter of grave concern. we are committed to an effective fight against terrorism using all the legal means at our disposal. terrorism is a threat to our values based on the rule of law. but we also need to be sure that in the fight against terrorism we do not damage or undermine our democratic and rule of law processes and institutions. the european union must not allow itself to be overwhelmed by the violence of the syrian regime. we have raised the guantanamo issue on many occasions with the us administration on the eu side. this dialogue with the united states will continue. legal advisers from the us state department and the european union are discussing ways to improve the protection of human rights in the fight against terrorism. the european union is not a party to the geneva conventions, but it is a party to the geneva convention. we must also ask whether there are full legal bases or whether or where action is needed. for a country like the united states, which is committed to freedom, the rule of law and due process, guantánamo is an anomaly. the us government should therefore, in our view, take measures to close the camp as soon as possible. i would add that the recent reports that a significant number of guantanamo detainees were under 18 years of age at the time of their capture - as children within the meaning of the un convention on the rights of the child - are of course of particular concern and need to be carefully investigated. the council has already used the british presidency vis-à-vis the united states to grant unhindered access to guantánamo to representatives of the so-called un special procedures, including the special rapporteur on torture, manfred nowak. unfortunately, the un representatives were not able to visit guantánamo under the conditions that are customary for special procedures. that is, they were not given assurances that they could talk to prisoners unsupervised. the united states also followed this line when the european parliament visited on 22 may. we continue to insist on access for the un special rapporteurs, as just mentioned. the council also has a particular concern to maintain and further strengthen the cohesion of the euro-atlantic community in the context of the fight against terrorism. the euro-atlantic community is one of the most successful partnerships in world history. this community of values must prove itself, especially in the face of the challenge of international terrorism. the austrian presidency and the council as a whole therefore wanted to initiate a dialogue between experts in international law, to make the discussion objective and to seek common positions that correspond to our system of values. we must be aware that the united states was forced to respond to the new challenges of global terrorism under exceptional circumstances after the criminal terrorist attacks of september 2001. the commission has already taken a number of steps in this direction, some of which have been regarded by us as critical or even incompatible with our common system of values. since then, the united states has seen a change of mind and a number of improvements have been made to the original situation. we believe that constructive and targeted dialogue with the united states should help to anchor the fight against terrorism even more firmly in the rule of law framework for the future.
member of the commission. madam president, i followed with great interest the visit of the parliament’s delegation, headed by mr brok, to guantánamo, and the motion for a resolution that is on the table today. the global fight against terrorism on an unprecedented scale has created new challenges for the protection of human rights. the european commission constantly underlines that states must ensure full respect for human rights during the fight against terrorism, and this is at stake here. a number of member states have voiced concern to the us government about guantánamo bay. the commission itself does not have any competence to intervene on behalf of the detainees held at there. however, we follow very closely all developments and we have noted president bush’s recent statement that he would like to bring guantánamo to an end. hopefully the us administration will go this way. the commission underlines that all anti-terrorist measures must be consistent with both international humanitarian law and international human rights law. it is our firm belief that the geneva conventions apply to all persons captured on the field of battle. the commission also takes the view that the provisions of the international covenant on civil and political rights and the un convention against torture apply to guantánamo bay. in this connection, we welcome the united states’ intention to adopt a new army field manual for intelligence interrogation, which will hopefully ensure that interrogation techniques fully comply with the international prohibition on torture or cruel, inhumane or degrading treatment. moreover, in our view, every person who has been detained must enjoy a status under international law and is entitled not to be detained arbitrarily. a person must, in addition, receive due process and a fair trial. the commission would also stress that no one should be subject to incommunicado detention and that the international committee of the red cross must always be allowed access to detained persons wherever they may be. finally, we have repeatedly made clear to the united states our opposition to the use of the death penalty in all cases. the european union has also made clear its support for the request of various united nations special rapporteurs to visit guantánamo bay and to be able to interview detainees in private. the european union has also raised this issue repeatedly with the united states and will continue to do so. it is vital that the international community seeks to reassert full adherence to international law, including human rights and humanitarian standards, in relation to the alleged taliban and al-qa’ida members in guantánamo and elsewhere. it is only by ensuring respect for those values by all parties that real progress can be achieved.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, this is not the first time we have spoken out on guantanamo; let us hope it is the last time we have to do so. my group endorses the requests contained in the conclusions of the report by the united nations committee against torture, published on 19 may. we call on the us government to stop detaining people in secret facilities, whether on its territory or in territories under its jurisdiction or under its de facto control. we call on the united states government to recognize that holding people in such conditions constitutes an act of torture or ill-treatment in itself, prohibited by the conventions we have signed. and finally, we again call on the bush administration to close the guantanamo detention centre and to ensure that the detainees are either given a fair trial or are released immediately, and that they are not transferred to a country where they can be subjected to torture, as appears to have happened. it is now the council and the commission's turn. the european union must, madam commissioner, comply with its guidelines on the fight against torture and the death penalty. you have the responsibility to discuss this matter with the united states and to ask them to close guantanamo. the transatlantic summit meeting in vienna is an opportunity to put pressure on the american authorities. the socialists want guantanamo on the vienna agenda. europe, on the other hand, must make its position very clear: people cannot be detained without charge in the european area, and there is no place for illegal transfers or the outsourcing of torture. we will not be complicit in it. this parliament will not be complicit in that.
madam president, when we discussed and adopted the emergency resolution on guantanamo a few months ago, we marked a turning point in the debate and denounced a practice which had been completely denied or simply ignored by the highest european authorities. the fight against terrorism - and i agree with this and i think that most of us feel the same way - cannot be the excuse for torture, kidnapping and, even less, murder, as is happening not only in guantanamo but in many other parts of the world. we must therefore continue to put pressure on the united states in all the ways we can, so that on the one hand it closes guantanamo, but on the other hand it also ensures that the almost 500 people who are still detained have the judicial guarantees they need. and this forces us to remember once again - as my colleague valenciano martínez-orozco has also done - that prisoners cannot be released on the assumption and knowing that they will be sent to countries where they may even be tortured. in many cases they cannot even return to their country of residence because their residence permit has been withdrawn. i therefore think it is necessary to remind the council that these measures must be taken seriously and that it must take a proactive approach to ensure that these people - i insist - not only have a fair trial, but also the human and judicial guarantees they deserve.
mr president, both reports, especially erika mann’s, show the intensity of the relationship between the european union and the united states, and, at the same time, highlight the long list of areas in which there might be difficulties and misunderstandings. it is a good time to underline how strong this relationship is and to what extent it goes far beyond the current administration and the problems with the specific administration and specific leadership, which some of us will not like. it is something that is deeper than that and it goes far beyond that. it goes beyond the strong political debate we might have. precisely because the relationship is strong, it allows us to tell the truth to the other party. however, the relationship lacks a real new structure, a real new architecture. as is mentioned in the reports, we need a new architecture to protect this relationship, to protect it from external storms and to make it much more solid than it is now. this needs commitment from the commission. we are not seeing this commitment in looking for this new architecture, and i think it is the commission’s role to develop and to work towards that direction.
mr president, transatlantic relations are essential if the united states and the european union are to successfully meet our common challenges. we both have a firm commitment to secure international order. and to do that, the effective fight against terrorism must be our priority. in the face of totalitarianism and the lack of freedom, there can only be a stronger and more solid alliance with our natural partners, the united states: this is the only alliance that has borne fruit and will continue to bear fruit. i take this opportunity to welcome the announcement by the united states secretary of state that washington is joining the multilateral negotiations on the iranian nuclear programme. if tehran gives up its uranium enrichment activities, iran should completely and verifiably suspend all its uranium enrichment and reprocessing activities. we need full cooperation, away from the hypocritical demagogy of easy anti-americanism. the need to intensify relations with the united states and to conclude an association agreement, as called for in the brok report, is of the first magnitude. we must strengthen our relations, always with a critical spirit, and explore new possibilities for more joint and coordinated action at international level and for greater integration of our markets, which will benefit our citizens. the european union is doomed to failure if it stands up to the united states and does not see them as its natural allies. our shared values of democracy, respect for human rights and individual freedom and the promotion of peace and collective security require this. we hope that the next summit between the united states and the european union, to be held in vienna in june, will also give a clear impetus to the intensification of our relations in the economic field. the creation of an atlantic area of prosperity is essential to ensure that our citizens continue to enjoy the economic well-being that europe and the united states provide them.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs hennicot-schoepges for her work on this report. tomorrow we will adopt the report on the european year of intercultural dialogue (2008), an initiative which will undoubtedly promote dialogue between all the cultures and people of different backgrounds living in the european union. the year 2008 will contribute to integration and cohesion within our societies and to peaceful governance of the international community as a whole. it is about ensuring that this diversity becomes an opportunity for all. the member states and all the relevant levels of government should promote education policies based on values and respect for the diversity and equality of people, eliminating the prejudices that are often the cause of suspicions and xenophobic attitudes. a firm and responsible approach to fostering knowledge, cooperation, respect and mutual understanding is therefore required. but this dialogue must be undertaken in the conviction that culture is a broad set of values and very diverse traditions - including religious ones - and, in respect for all cultural sensitivities and all religious beliefs, i believe that these belong to the private sphere of each individual. it is obviously a programme for the members of the european union, but, as i said, because of its importance in world governance, it should be complemented by the only global project for promoting intercultural dialogue that exists within the framework of the united nations: the alliance of civilizations. as you know, it was an initiative of the spanish prime minister, josé luis rodríguez zapatero, and the turkish prime minister, and it now has the support of the whole of the united nations. i am convinced that as this programme is implemented, this complementarity will emerge, because in reality these are things that have to go together.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs hennicot-schoepges, for her work and for the way in which she performed it, by holding a dialogue with several members and considering the different points of view. it has been a very good experience from which we have all benefited. it is important to recognise cultural diversity in europe – within each member state, each society, each region and each nation – in order to achieve unity with diversity. that is our european point of view. we can only build european citizenship if we recognise this diversity and if everyone agrees on the same common project for europe. on religion and intercultural dialogue, we should understand that the recognition of religious values can only come through intercultural dialogue. cultural diversity includes religious diversity, which must therefore form part of that dialogue.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for this debate. it is rather late, but it is a very important debate. i think we all agree on the importance of the intercultural dialogue. i would agree, as usual, that the commission’s proposals have been improved by the work of rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs in parliament and we can be proud of this. regarding the budget, even we were to invest the entire budget that the community has for this purpose, it would not be enough. the issue is not about money, it is more about the idea, and we should push for financing for this to come from other sources as well. it should not be seen that such action is financed only by the community budget. we are putting forward as much money as we can afford. i agree that the amount could be larger, but this is the amount of money set aside for this purpose. at the same time, once again i would like to defend the budget that we have allocated for communication and information purposes. this is a crucial element. what is most important is not so much co-financing, despite that being an important issue, but rather providing information and guiding the process with the member states involved. i would therefore ask for your understanding with regard to the amount we attribute. it is not because we do not value this, but because the budget is limited and the community should not finance 100% of all the actions that the union is proposing. other sources should also be used.
the rapporteur. - mr president, this house will vote tomorrow on the report on energy efficiency for which i have been responsible as rapporteur. this report comes at a very opportune time. following the energy crisis last january, the steady rise in the price of a barrel of crude oil, among other factors, has reopened a deep debate on the lack of a common energy policy within the union, the vulnerability of our supply system, the worrying increase in protectionist attitudes and the need to substantially improve our habits and the efficiency of our consumption. it has taken extreme situations for citizens and governments to become aware of the seriousness of the situation in which we find ourselves. and it is to be hoped that, once and for all, the necessary measures will be taken to solve these problems. in my view, which i believe is shared by the vast majority of members of this house, improving energy efficiency is the fastest, least expensive and most job-creating and economically growth-promoting way to reduce our external dependence and combat climate change. in addition, the promotion of energy efficiency is perfectly in line with the lisbon agenda, which is in dire need of a revitalizing boost. the report also aims to remind member states that, if the various directives in force were respected, the union could reach 50% of its energy saving targets and a large part of the commitments under the kyoto protocol without having to take any further action. i think it is important to stress this message because a large part of the agreements between member states at the last spring council correspond to the fulfilment of existing obligations. we are often accused of producing a lot of legislation which is difficult to implement, but this is often a poor excuse for national governments who are not diligent enough to comply with community legislation. the report we are going to adopt tomorrow also contains recommendations which are worth highlighting here: the need to invest massively in infrastructure improvements - taking into account that we suffer an average loss of 12% in transmission networks, with losses of up to 20% in some member states - the completion of the internal energy market; increased investment in research, development and innovation of more efficient technologies; the introduction of more stringent requirements for household appliances and stricter control of products offered on the european market which do not meet minimum standards; the inclusion of efficiency criteria in relations with developing countries; and a reinforced dialogue with the main energy producing countries. last but not least, several parts of the document highlight the importance of the public sector, including european institutions, playing an exemplary role in implementing energy efficiency measures, whether in the design of public buildings, the renewal of vehicle fleets or the inclusion of energy efficiency criteria in public tenders. i believe that the commission will find in this document many useful suggestions for the preparation of the action plan. we hope that commissioner piebalgs, who is always so attentive to the feelings of this parliament, will incorporate them into his final formulation. let me conclude, mr president, by thanking the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation in the preparation of this report, which i hope will receive the same broad majority support as the vote in committee tomorrow. it is the right time to take bold steps in the right direction, since we have on our side, simultaneously, the willingness of the member states and the will and interest of the citizens. we can't afford to miss this great opportunity.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate mr vidal-quadras on the broad consensus reached and the spirit he has shown in the process of drawing up this report. we all agree that europe is facing the effects of climate change, rising oil prices and tensions with russia over gas supplies. however, the european political response to our energy vulnerability may not yet be up to the challenges we face. in recent years, priority has been given to the completion of the european energy market. however, reality shows that progress towards a common energy policy is essential and that the commitment of the member states is necessary to move decisively towards this objective. on the other hand, greater financial commitment to research and development in the field of energy and, in particular, to increase efficiency, especially in buildings and transport, is also essential. in any case, one of the essential ways is to improve energy efficiency, which can save europe a huge amount of energy. the citizens can play an important role in this in their daily lives, but we will need a global approach, because this objective will affect all european policies as a whole.
on behalf of the green group, i agree that the importance of this report is twofold: on the one hand it highlights the enormous and grave situation of women as victims of armed conflict, but on the other hand it points very positively to the fundamental - and often exclusive - role that women can play in peace processes and in the post-war rehabilitation phase. in fact, this report - for which i congratulate the rapporteur, and for her sensitivity in accepting many of our amendments - goes even further than the provisions of un security council resolution 1325 and the bulletin of the un secretary-general on specific measures to protect against sexual exploitation and violence. for example, it states the importance of access to reproductive health services, especially in war and post-war contexts and more particularly in refugee camps; it emphasizes the need to address violence against women; it calls for acts of sexual violence, such as rape, sexual slavery, forced pregnancy, forced prostitution and forced sterilization, among other practices, to be considered war crimes and crimes against humanity; and it calls for women victims of these practices to be able to appeal directly to international judicial bodies. however, it is also necessary to emphasize the fundamental role played by women in peacebuilding processes and, therefore, we call on the commission and the council, as well as on the member states involved in conflict management, to be more sensitive in ensuring the technical and financial assistance needed to promote programmes which enable women to be actors with their own voice in these processes, as, for example, has been requested by groups of kosovar women, who are calling for inclusion in the negotiating delegation, which, for the moment, has only men among its seven members. but we also ask that international missions, whether civilian or military, take a gender perspective into account in their practice on the ground and that those who abuse their status and impunity and commit - as we have unfortunately seen on several occasions - degrading acts and violations against women and girls are severely punished. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on a particularly sensitive subject, because armed conflict does affect women in a special way. most of the refugees and displaced persons are women and children. it is women who bear the burden of family needs, facing more dangers than men, including being raped. this drama of women is common to all conflicts. but i want to emphasize here that it was very likely not women who made the decisions that led to this situation, because where decisions are made in security policy and at the negotiating tables, there are practically no women. despite the recommendations of the beijing platform for action, despite un security council resolution 1325, which recommends including women in all peace processes, and despite the fact that women know a lot about giving, preserving and caring for life, courageously fighting for their livelihood, negotiating and making agreements, paradoxically the majority of ngos playing an active role in peace negotiations and post-conflict reconstruction processes are made up of women, whom we, from the institutions, must support and help; and we must also take measures to increase the presence of women where decisions are taken that affect the fate of our collective, because, moreover, the absence of women is evidence of a democratic deficit.
mr president, this is an amendment which refers to the complementarity between this programme and the work being done by the high level group of the united nations alliance of civilizations. it says exactly this: 'the commission should ensure complementarity with the work of the high level group of the united nations alliance of civilizations and with any other cooperation initiatives with third countries, in particular developing countries, which are relevant to the objectives of intercultural dialogue in this european year.'
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 1 june 2006.
following the request made by the president-in-office of the council to the conference of presidents, the conference decided at its meeting on 8 june to hold a plenary session. i would stress that this is a plenary session in the full sense of the word, not a conference of presidents open to all members, which will take place on tuesday next week, 20 june, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at that plenary session the president of the council, mr schüssel, will report on the last meeting and on the progress of his presidency and i therefore hope that a suitable number of members will be in the chamber to hear this important explanation. the only item on the agenda will be the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the european council of 15 and 16 june 2006.
mr president, i understand that the conference of presidents, in deciding on this plenary session, did not take into account that on the same date the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly will be meeting in vienna, so that 78 members of this house will not, in principle, be able to take part either in the extraordinary plenary session which is called for in this way or in the plenary session of the joint assembly which we are obliged to attend. i think it is at least regrettable that this circumstance has not been considered, because 78 is more than 10% of the members of the house.
thank you, mr martinez. it is a regrettable coincidence, but it is not a regrettable coincidence that it was not thought about, because it was thought about.
mr posselt, this is not a question of order but of opinion. a very respectable opinion, but one that cannot be taken into consideration. the conference of presidents, which is the body that convenes plenary sessions, has discussed the matter and has taken a decision. i understand that there are opinions in this house for all tastes. those who want to applaud the decision, applaud it, and those who want to reject it, reject it, but do not raise personal opinions in the form of questions of order. the conference of presidents has taken account of the coincidence to which mr martinez referred. sometimes we can't marry all the agendas. the alternative would have been to convene a conference of presidents open to all members. the consequences would have been exactly the same, because the colleagues in vienna would not have been able to take part either. i am grateful to the honourable members for the opportunity to speak. the next sitting will be held on 20 june at 11 a.m., despite the speeches which have been made.
the final draft agenda for the june part-session, drawn up in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 8 june 2006. the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats have asked that no resolution on bulgaria and romania be voted on this week. i would like to ask you to explain this request to mr brok.
we now come to the one-minute speaking time on matters of political importance which, as always, exceed the time available. the president shall endeavour to ensure that all members are able to speak and, to this end, shall ask for their cooperation and that the time allotted for this purpose is not exceeded. you know that i will give priority to those members who have not spoken in the previous two partsession.
mr president, a member of the epp questioned the democratic guarantees for a fair trial in spain. i think, on the contrary, that spain should be regarded as a model for the defence of the rights of the accused, which is not precisely what can be said of other countries. in particular, as mr watson has said, we are very concerned about what is happening in guantánamo, and i take this opportunity to denounce the fact that mr emilio gonzález, president bush's spokesman for immigration and citizenship, in my city of oviedo, where i have been mayor, has declared that guantánamo is the paradigm of human rights; that is something we cannot tolerate and i believe that the european union cannot look the other way, as a previous generation did with regard to the holocaust.
thank you very much, mr corbett. your suggestions seem very sound to me. let's try to apply them, because they seem to be full of good sense, as always. i regret that i cannot continue to give the floor to some members who have spoken at previous partsession, but we cannot keep the commissioners waiting any longer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr cashman on his report and i support the recommendations he proposes to improve the efficiency of our committee on petitions. i'll add a few comments. first, to regret that many of our colleagues are unaware of the work of our committee on petitions, dealing with it only occasionally, when complaints are raised within it which affect their territory. their work, however, is an essential mechanism in the relationship between parliament and the public. the effectiveness of this mechanism often depends on the confidence of the citizens, not only in the house and its representatives, but in the european union as a whole. i therefore call on members of parliament to take a greater interest in our committee on petitions, which is their committee. my second reflection is also about greater efficiency, which avoids what i consider to be a perversion in that commission. this is the main platform available to european citizens and groups to make their complaints to parliament about alleged breaches of community rules. there are, however, various ways in which members can act in such cases within the rules of procedure of the house. that is why i find it perverse that members of parliament appear at the head of complaints which are then dealt with in the committee on petitions of the european parliament. i do not question the right of citizens to complain to parliament, but i think that this practice is politically incorrect and sometimes aimed at agitation. i think it is ethically unacceptable for members to lead a petition and then judge for themselves whether it is relevant in the committee on petitions, and i have doubts even as regards the law. the socialist group therefore tabled an amendment which i hope will be supported by the house, recommending that members leave the initiative to the citizens in these procedures, using other channels of action provided for in the rules of procedure. i would like to end by congratulating the colleagues who work on the bureau of the committee on petitions and the excellent officials of parliament and the groups who make it possible for our work to progress every day. for many months i have been witness to your efforts in the handling of the very long file, fortunately resolved, so that the don quixote airport project in my province of ciudad real, spain, can go ahead, and, since my involvement in that debate, i have been able to see how the committee on petitions operated effectively so that the work of our parliament contributed to getting things done properly.
mr president, i do not know whether my colleague, mr martinez, was referring to baroness ludford, who made a similar proposal the other day. i am grateful to mr cashman for his work, but, with all due respect for his work, i would like to emphasize the strong disagreement of our delegation with what is contained in the explanatory statement, because although there is no direct reference to the valencian community in the motion for a resolution, they have already taken care to put the finger on it. and since it is mentioned, i will tell you what is happening: that the valencian community is an example of a model of orderly and coherent growth, a model of sustainable development, despite the negative image of the destruction of the territory that, both from the european socialist party and from the government of mr rodríguez zapatero, is trying to transfer to the institutions of the european union and to spanish society. nor should we forget the campaign of discrediting that is being carried out by spanish public television, with biased and partial information on urban development in the valencian community. yes, gentlemen, yes, i know. the valencian community has one of the most advanced european legislation in the field of spatial planning and protection, as evidenced by the fact that the valencian community has 19 natural parks, 31 municipal areas and 4 protected areas. in addition, the area protected by the consell in this legislature is 2 500% - i said that correctly, 2 500% - larger than the area reclassified for urban development, which shows that the valencian government is committed to protecting the area and developing quality and sustainable urban planning. in fact, in the last eight years, the area of protected natural areas in the valencian community has increased ninefold, as in 1995 the volume of protected area was 3% while today it exceeds 29%. these figures, ladies and gentlemen, place the valencian community 16 points above the european average in terms of protected area. the community has more protected area than countries such as denmark, greece, portugal, the netherlands, italy, ireland, finland, luxembourg and sweden, and i will not bore you with the percentages of each country. we must therefore remember that the valencian government of the popular party modernized the lrau, approved by the socialist government in the generalitat, completing the valencian urban and territorial legislation, in accordance with community legislation, and the recommendations of the european parliament and the european commission itself have always been taken on board.
mr president, i would simply like to say to mr iturgaiz that we are not here to have a spanish-spanish debate for national or regional television and that there are 15 000 petitions from citizens all over europe. but i would like to focus on mr cashman's report and congratulate him warmly on it and on its many and intelligent conclusions. i also join in his thanks to our administrators and the commission secretariat and i wholeheartedly support his demand for more resources, for greater representation of the committee on petitions in parliament, since there are members who wish to participate in it but cannot because of the limited number of members in the committee on petitions, and for improved cooperation with the executive committee. i would like to express three questions or concerns which have been raised by the very liveliness and dynamism of the debate in this commission, which is fascinating. firstly, perhaps the need to analyse from now on how admissibility can move from the purely bureaucratic to the political sphere, as is the case in other institutions, such as the council of europe. secondly, i would also like to point out that the unacceptable delays and delays in the commission's giving us its opinion and, above all, in its decision-making, sometimes generate considerable losses. i therefore welcome the willingness of commissioner wallström to improve this situation in the future and to avoid bottlenecks, bottlenecks which in some cases have given me the impression that other institutions, such as the commission and even the ombudsman, have used the members of the committee on petitions instead of cooperating in their decisions.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i wish to thank all the members for their kind words, which complement a tough report nicely. mrs wallis summed up excellently what this is ultimately about. it is about better quality laws and better redress. may i say that we have taken a leaf from finland’s book and i have proposed as part of the internal action plan on communication that we should start to produce a layman’s summary for every proposal brought forward by the commission. we are working hard on this and i want to see it become a reality before i leave the commission. we should be able to explain in one page, in simple, accessible language what we want to do and what our proposals are. we promise to work more intensively with the ombudsman, the committee on petititions and the european parliament in making sure that our procedures are improved where necessary. i will end by saying that the commission joins with you in admiring the work of the committee on petition’s secretariat. thank you very much for this discussion.
mr. president, it seems that mr. cashman's victimhood is unparalleled. i did not refer directly to you, mr cashman, in my speech, but to my group's disagreement with part of the statement of reasons which you have included in your report. and, of course, we members can 'miss' more than the explanatory statement you have written in the report you have presented. i therefore stand by what you said in that speech, and that is simply what i have referred to. what you have with other ministers, councillors, etc., is your own business, mr. cashman, as you know. i repeat: i am sticking to the text you have presented, and in particular to the explanatory statement of that report.
mr president, commissioner, for months we have had impressive data for the football world cup. the arrival of 40 000 women from eastern europe and north africa for sexual exploitation was expected, and large facilities capable of accommodating many clients at once were being set up in the host cities. the targets were women who, for the most part, lived in extreme poverty in their home countries and who had been recruited with deception and false promises of a better life than they could ever achieve. on 17 january this parliament called for appropriate measures to be taken to prevent trafficking in women for forced prostitution. on 13 march, the plenary of this house also called on the media and sports stars to help combat sexual exploitation of women and to promote a change of mentality, in accordance with the values of solidarity in sport. many women's organizations are carrying out campaigns to raise awareness among the public. we have heard your explanations, commissioner, and we support and applaud your initiatives, but they must not be one-off actions. what about the plan adopted to prevent and combat human trafficking? we must be combative from the institutions, because it is intolerable that at this stage, in the heart of europe, a genuine slave market is being organised. major sporting events must no longer be excellent business opportunities for traffickers in women and pimps. we need to achieve a common position to prevent the least developed countries from being the quarry of exploited women in the rich countries within the european union. it is therefore urgent to create a common legislative framework for the whole of the european union and it is absolutely necessary to deepen effective cooperation between the countries of origin, transit and destination, because we are facing a criminal phenomenon of enormous dimensions whose networks are linked, most of the time, to organized crime. and to move forward, commissioner, we must provide ourselves with more resources and also make the fight against trafficking in women a priority within the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament, the committee on the environment and the rapporteur, mrs klaß, for the excellent work they have done on the second reading of this proposal. i totally agree that clean water is more important and more valuable than diamonds. there is no doubt that there is a need for an effective system to protect the quality of groundwater as a natural resource for drinking water, industry and agriculture. groundwater also has great environmental value. they are an essential component of the water cycle and therefore need to be protected for both the aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems to which they are linked. the proposed framework directive complements the water framework directive. first, it sets out clear criteria for assessing the good chemical status of groundwater and for identifying and reversing trends in the degradation of groundwater quality. secondly, it requires the application of measures to prevent or limit the direct inflow of dangerous substances into groundwater. at first reading the commission accepted many of the 89 amendments adopted by the european parliament, since they clarified and improved the text while remaining consistent with the structure of the original proposal and the commission's overall approach. the common position now incorporates 54 of parliament's amendments, either in substance or in spirit. before the common position was adopted, the scope and applicability of community standards for groundwater quality, and in particular the issue of nitrates in relation to the nitrate pollution directive, were discussed. in this respect, the commission considers that the nitrates directive, the water framework directive and this directive pursue the same objectives in terms of preventing and reducing nitrates pollution. the commission considers that the common position improves the provisions on the fixing of threshold values for groundwater and the corresponding compliance regime. the common position also simplifies the criteria for the detection and reversal of pollution trends and clarifies the measures to be taken to prevent and reduce pollutant inflows. i hope that we will be able to complete the legislative procedure as soon as possible, because we really need this new directive, which will allow the environmental objectives of the water framework directive to be assessed on the basis of clear quality criteria and groundwater protection measures.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work, which i think has greatly improved this proposal. i think we all agree that the protection of groundwater is important and that this should be one of the main objectives of european legislation, in order to correct the current pollution situation and prevent future ones. the pollution of groundwater causes situations which are difficult and costly to correct. the collection of groundwater for drinking water is very important throughout europe and therefore increasing its protection is a basic objective of any protection regulation, not only for water but also for human health and the quality of life of citizens. we must therefore consider that, since the possibilities of purifying an aquifer are very limited, control and prevention are strictly necessary in order to prevent pollutants from reaching these groundwater. i would stress that groundwater is the most sensitive and important water resource in the european union and, in particular, the main source of public drinking water supply. i also believe that, in order to ensure the same level of protection for groundwater, member states sharing water bodies should coordinate their activities with regard to the setting of threshold values and the identification of the main hazardous substances. finally, i hope that the house will approve the amendments which we adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and that the council will take note of them, because they seek to strengthen the quality requirements and promote prevention, in order to avoid new polluting discharges.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs brepoels, for her excellent work on the proposal under discussion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. environmental policy at european union or national level depends heavily on spatial data, or in other words information that can be geographically placed on a map. all other sectors also depend on similar high-quality data. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution of the atmosphere by nitrates and their salts is a very good one. our policy making is hampered by the fact that spatial data are often isolated in systems that are not easily accessible. in addition, in some cases, data are recorded in such a way that they cannot be combined with other sources, thus preventing the necessary policy-making assessments. the proposed inspire directive aims to address these problems by improving the accessibility and interoperability of spatial data systems held by public authorities in the member states. this is the best way of making the most of the possibilities offered by modern technology in terms of access to the information we need. the fact that the member states' experience is being brought together is a clear example of the added value of the proposed directive at european union level. the commission has accepted most of parliament's amendments at first reading. unfortunately, the commission was not able to accept the council's common position, since it weakened important elements of the commission's proposal. the main issues are: the extent to which the public will have electronic access to spatial data, the removal of obstacles to the sharing of spatial data between public authorities and the comitology procedure for the adoption of implementing rules. i am pleased to note that these issues have largely been addressed thanks to the amendments proposed by the rapporteur and adopted by the committee on the environment. these amendments reflect satisfactorily the original spirit and objectives of the proposal. the package of amendments is therefore a good basis for proceeding with the conciliation procedure with the council. as many of the member states still have reservations on key issues, it is clear that concessions will be required from both sides. i would like to assure you that the commission will make every effort to facilitate a satisfactory agreement for all parties.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs brepoels for her work and also for the efforts to reach a compromise with the council at this second reading. i have no doubt that this proposal will be useful as a basic tool for the formulation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of environmental policies at all levels and of policies or activities which may have a direct or indirect impact on the environment. i also think it is appropriate to base this community infrastructure on the spatial data infrastructures established and managed by the member states, fully applying the principle of subsidiarity, especially when member states - as is the case in many cases - have several levels of public administrations. the exchange of data between public authorities is undoubtedly the key added value of inspire. it must be the principle by which the provisions of article 17 are governed. i would like to stress, however, that if costs are eventually incurred, they should be reasonable. i also think it is crucial that it is designed as a tool for providing public information and in this respect we hope that inspire will complement public sector information and the directives on access to environmental information adopted under the aarhus convention, which we adopted not long ago, and that it will address a number of issues not covered by those directives, such as data sharing between public authorities and interoperability issues. this tool should be used to exploit to the full the benefits and possibilities that the globalisation of data and services offers to governments, private enterprise, academia, society as a whole and, very importantly, to citizens. i think it's important, because it brings us up to date on something that is already common thanks to the internet and the information that is available in this medium. i therefore hope that this directive will receive the most determined support from all sectors and levels of administration and that we can finally, in conciliation, have a good tool to achieve all these objectives.
mr president, i welcome once again these initiatives on tourism, which our great friend mr luis queiro has drawn our attention to. tourism is one of our largest, most competitive and most growth-potential industries. tourism is wealth in many ways. tourism is an important job creator. research shows that job creation in the tourism sector is 1.5 times greater and faster than in any other industrial sector. it is also a great opportunity for rural development, encouraging huge investments in infrastructure, improving the living conditions of local residents and of course also of tourists. the wealth generated by tourism is not just economic. the environment and local culture are promoted when the authorities restore monuments, open museums, create natural parks, etc. and, most importantly, tourism concerns human beings, enriches them through culture and environmental and social awareness. it is therefore an important instrument of social and regional integration. i therefore ask the commission to make an imaginative effort and to explore, in cooperation with all the parties concerned and, of course, in association with the european parliament, some provision aimed at ensuring that member states with a strong tourist activity establish in their national strategic frameworks and in their operational programmes measures enabling regions to implement and finance projects consistent with the development of sustainable tourism adapted to local conditions and potentials. if there is a real will to achieve the lisbon objectives, this initiative requires at least joint reflection.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. mr president, the treatment of the fisheries sector in the seventh framework programme is in open contradiction with the declarations of the highest community authorities and of the member states on the priorities for the implementation of the new cfp and, moreover, it is in contradiction with the policy just presented by the european commission the great priority of president barroso: a common policy with a holistic view of the seas, an integrated maritime policy. in this connection, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, that greater investment is needed in scientific research, which will enable us to know all the potential of the marine environment and ecosystems, not only - and i insist on this point - in the interests of fisheries, but also in other important matters such as pollution, climate change, progress in health or pharmacology, food and animal nutrition and the management of coastal uses. so i would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we will support all the amendments which defend this presence, this integration, of fisheries policy within the seventh framework programme.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, mr rapporteur, mr jerzy buzek, it has been a pleasure to work with you and also with the alternative rapporteurs. i think there has been a feeling, a rather positive relationship and a spirit of consensus, which we in my group appreciate. the seventh framework programme reflects all the opportunities and weaknesses of the european union. these same contradictions and opportunities reflect the present crisis of the european union: a europe that wants to but cannot. a europe that has goals and objectives in innovation, in technology, in economics, to be a world leader, but has great difficulty in putting money on the table, in getting the commitment of states beyond their narrow national interests. the green group considers the seventh framework programme to be a great opportunity to bet on innovation, to bet on a new europe, based on clean technologies, based on the knowledge of thousands and thousands of small businesses, laboratories and young people, betting on a future that creates jobs, social cohesion and sustainability at the same time. the future is there. i do not know whether we will be able to do that, whether we will be able to leave behind a past dominated by heavy and dirty industry, based on big interests and monopolies of big companies. let us see if this seventh framework programme meets these challenges. the first challenge: basic and fundamental science. we have set up the european research council, which is made up of 22 highly respected people. we are glad; it is an important challenge. we think that fundamental and basic science has to be one of the big priorities. another priority is to open the doors of research and science to small and medium-sized enterprises across europe. we have had a rather unfortunate situation in this area, since the participation of small and mediumsized enterprises and small laboratories in the current programmes is less than 10%. we have tabled an amendment to obtain a minimum participation of 15% in all programmes. parliament has the opportunity to help open the programme to all. we have the challenge of innovation. technological innovation is about encouraging the flow of information, it's about sharing information. recently, major european and north american newspapers reported that new investments were being made in europe in computer and technology companies precisely because there was more flexibility in this field. more flexibility and fewer barriers to the flow of information, fewer barriers to intellectual property. let's encourage this exchange of information. let's encourage this flow of information. we're going to create thousands and thousands of small business clusters and we're going to rise to the challenge of creating this social fabric and cohesion based on knowledge. one challenge has been to increase the participation of small businesses and to create this cohesion, another challenge has been the environmental crisis. this is also due to our current energy crisis. we deeply regret the current disregard and marginalisation of renewable energy and efficiency within current programmes. we regret doubly that we were not able to secure a separate budget line for renewable energy. today, the european citizen cannot know how much money is spent on solar or wind energy. we know, however, that a great deal more money is being invested in nuclear energy. this is a political problem, a real problem, because in the short and medium term, in a few years, we will have to deal with the energy crisis precisely with renewable energies and efficiency. it is also a problem of transparency. there has been a serious transparency problem because we have not been able to know, not only in the energy field but in many other areas of the sixth framework programme, how the money has been spent. and this has greatly limited the political debate in this house. i hope that people can find out how much money is spent on preventive and public health and how much money is spent in many other sectors, which has not been known until now. i hope this can be fixed in the future. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the tireless work he has carried out over the course of a year, which we are now about to conclude. i would like to define the seventh framework programme as a great opportunity. we have a great opportunity once again to show that the lisbon agenda was a success, that it was rigorous and that it is alive. the seventh framework programme is a great opportunity in a key area: one of the key points of the lisbon strategy, which is research and, as a consequence, innovation. in this sense, the seventh framework programme will not only have operational effects, but also symbolic and reference effects which should not be underestimated. it's a flagship program, really. it is a european union programme which is a reference to the outside of the european union, of what europe wants in terms of research, and it is a programme with impact and with reference to the inside of the european union, of what we want in our joint action in research, and it is a programme which is going to be a reference for national research programmes. the seventh framework programme has elements of continuity, but it has elements of innovation. it has all the instruments, despite obvious budgetary and other constraints, to develop competitiveness, which is the key to growth and therefore to employment. the seventh framework programme has created a new instrument, the european research council, which will make it possible to create a more dense framework from the point of view of the european research area, and the seventh framework programme also adopts a new position on small and mediumsized enterprises. the success of the seventh framework programme is entirely our responsibility. the instruments are there and it is up to us whether or not the seventh framework programme becomes a driver of competitiveness, development and growth in europe.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr buzek and mr busquin and thank them and the commissioner for the important work they have done, because, ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are dealing with is a key one in the strategy designed for the coming years. if our aim from lisbon is to become a knowledge-based, dynamic and competitive economy, research, development and innovation are undoubtedly the main tools to promote growth, employment and competitiveness, and the seventh framework programme will set the main axes of our science policy for the next seven years. our main objective has been to respond to the great challenges that our science, technology and innovation have to face, so that we can reduce the gap that separates us from our competitors. the challenges identified, studied and analysed in detail in the locatelli report. our work has not been without difficulties, especially after the agreement on the financial perspective which reduced our initial economic horizon. our work is not finished, but the will to reach the best possible final agreement is clear on all sides, and i think that today, on the whole, we can be satisfied with the progress made. the seventh framework programme, for example, includes in its cooperation programme powerful tools to stimulate private investment in research. the people programme includes important measures to increase the quantity and quality of human resources devoted to research, to make europe more attractive to researchers and to curb their exodus and to boost the recruitment of women. support for quality basic research also seems to be secured by the creation of the european research council, which has yet to be defined. the objective of improving the links between the world of research and the world of business - and i am speaking particularly of small and medium-sized enterprises - can also be achieved through the measures contained in the cooperation programme and the capacities programme. in addition, this work confirms parliament's commitment to the lisbon strategy and is an important step towards achieving two major objectives for 2010: building the european research area and bringing global r & d spending to 3% of gdp, with only one third coming from the public sector and the remaining two thirds from the private sector. ladies and gentlemen, with the seventh framework programme we can say that the union's science policy is certainly being strengthened and, as an alternative rapporteur for the seventh framework programme euratom and in the light of what happened at the last council, i want to stress how very important it is to have the iter programme in europe. it means consolidating our leadership in fusion energy as an important way of achieving a massive, sustainable and secure energy supply and how much it can help the future of european industry. and as for fission, i reaffirm our commitment to renewable energy, although i accept that, today, nuclear fission energy is inevitable, because of the strong demand for energy in the face of the still few mass sources at our disposal. i insist on the need for further research into safety, waste management and... we'll keep working. i'm sure you'll be pleased.
mr president, the seventh framework programme is not only disappointing for the common fisheries policy, it should be openly described as hypocritical. it should not be forgotten that one of the union's major objectives is to lead a policy of competitiveness and economic efficiency in a framework of sustainable development. and when we talk about sustainable development, we immediately think of the marine environment and, in connection with it, the consequences of fishing activity. there is no fisheries management rule that does not end with the whiplash that decisions will be taken on the basis of the best available scientific advice. in presenting the green paper on the future maritime policy of the european union last week, commissioner borg reiterated the urgent need to know how the oceans work and that new fisheries management measures cannot be developed without knowing how ecosystems work and how economic activities affect them. and yet we have gone from having specific chapters for fisheries research, with 150 million euros in the fifth framework programme, to 60 million in the sixth programme, where, for the first time, the thematic approach to fisheries is no longer present. the fishing industry needs to know the size and evolution of species, to research new and more selective fishing gear, to develop the cultivation of new species to feed the exponential internal consumption of fish and to depend on imports. without this kind of specific research, any rules applied to fishermen will lack a sound scientific basis and will have no credibility. it is not by stepping back at this scale that we can lead sustainable development policies. i therefore ask everyone - and especially the rapporteur - to support the amendments tabled by various political groups and by various members which reflect this thematic approach to fisheries.
mr president, tunisia is indeed a key country in the euro-mediterranean process. so much so that it has had an association agreement since 1998, an action plan since 2005, and even its parliament has been chairing the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly for a couple of months now. that is precisely why the situation in that country is even more serious in terms of human rights violations. i would reply to mr busuttil when he says that we are too concerned about tunisia, that we cannot simply leave a friend behind and that we will therefore have to draw up as many resolutions as necessary. let the tunisian authorities not come to the conviction that, however much they insist on human rights violations, they will tire us out and we will be silenced. we would be unfair to the euro-mediterranean process, we would be unfair to the tunisian people and we would be unfair to ourselves if we did that. just because tunisia is doing it wrong, doesn't justify others doing it wrong too. and this is the political problem, mr president, that we have on the table. the euro-mediterranean process is a success, but there is at least one area where we have not yet achieved the objective, and that is that human rights should be a common currency in the political situation of all the countries in the process. what has happened in tunisia is the latest example, but it will not be the last of the last, unfortunately. that is why i would call on the tunisian authorities to think about being an example of a secular and democratic state, respectful of human rights, and to stop being an example of a secular state and not respectful of human rights, and they understand well what i am trying to tell them.
the agenda now includes the debate on the council and commission statements on the preparation of the european council in brussels on 15 and 16 june, including the next steps in the reflection period, and the oral question to the commission on the next steps in the reflection period by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs (o-0033/2006 - b6-0208/2006). we have mr winkler, on behalf of the council, and mr barroso, president of the commission, accompanied by mrs wallström, vice-president of the commission.
mr president, illegal immigration has become one of the european union's greatest challenges. in spain, for example, according to all the polls, it is perceived as the second national problem. i would therefore have liked to have heard more decisive words from the austrian presidency, with more ambition and concreteness, on the progress you expect from the next european council in this area. apart from the provision in the draft constitution, we could - and in my view should - continue to make progress in the communityisation of measures to combat illegal immigration. and i know very well that some people will say that there are some governments which take decisions against their european partners, in defiance of the commission, and that when problems arise they want us to solve them for them together. but i would say to them that a community policy on immigration would never lead to mass, uncontrolled regularization and therefore the 'call effect' that we now fear would not exist. and regular immigrants must be guaranteed their integration and equal rights and obligations. we could certainly think about transitional measures for the romanian and bulgarian citizens, who - i also hope so - will soon be community citizens. on another matter, the presidency referred today in passing to the document commissioned to michel barnier. parliament has been dealing with natural disasters since last summer; we have visited the affected areas and we have seen - as a resolution adopted almost unanimously shows - a great deal of social dissatisfaction and too much lack of coordination between the competent administrations. and finally, i should like to say that you have not mentioned anything about the fund regulation. there is one detail, mr president, which has yet to be settled so that parliament can vote on it in the first week of july. your collaborators can inform you about it, but i ask you for one last effort and wish you the best of luck.
mr president, one of the main mechanisms for the integration of europe is the enlargement of the european union. bulgaria and romania are at the doors of the eu, turkey is already negotiating its accession conditions, the new state of montenegro has expressed its hope of becoming a member of the european union, and other states in the balkans may follow suit. in this context, i should like to focus on the issue of the copenhagen criteria and the policies related to minorities. many states are still following the old-fashioned french model and trying to assimilate those who have a language and culture different to that of the state. in romania, for instance, there is a large hungarian-speaking minority, whose rights must be fully recognised before romania enters the european union as a way of recognising internal diversity. that is to say as a way of respecting human rights, because fulfilling minority rights is absolutely essential to respecting human rights. the european union gives hope to minorities. please do not disappoint them.
mr president, mr president of the european commission, you made a good speech today and i want to congratulate you on it. you have made a good speech, because i think you have managed to touch the sensitive fibre of the people, of those of us here and of those outside who are listening to us. you have made a plea not to be carried away by europeanism and i think you are right. you have also said something important: that europe is not in crisis. it is true, europe is not in crisis. we must not fall for that idea. but it is also true that we have to make an effort to explain the reasons why the constitutional treaty is important for people's lives, because, of course, many people think that the constitutional treaty has not entered into force - and it has - and nothing has happened; europe has not sunk into the sea. many people may therefore be tempted to say that the constitutional treaty is not that important either, since nothing has happened once it has not entered into force. in all the campaigns i have been involved in, i have never heard what all the leaders who have spoken here today have said: the constitutional treaty is necessary for europe to work better, to give people added value. we have to make a huge pedagogical effort to explain to people what i called on another occasion 'the cost of non-constitution': why the fact of not having a constitutional treaty has a negative impact on their lives on a daily basis. it is true - and mr rasmussen has said it - that it is a thankless task to explain these things; it is a task which requires a great intellectual effort, to put our grey cells to work, to tell people with clear and precise examples, but it is a necessary task. i believe that europe today requires a great deal of pedagogy, but it also requires a certain amount of political courage, and i believe that this parliament, which has been a pioneer on many other occasions, with the resolution that we are going to adopt today from the committee on constitutional affairs, is setting out on that path, in which, with a great deal of pedagogy, i believe we will be able to save the ship of the constitution, to put it afloat and to make the constitutional treaty an added value for people's lives.
mr president, we have talked about the period of reflection and debate on the future of europe, but in the light of what we are discussing this morning, i think it is a debate on the present of the european union. future and present are confused, especially because it is essential to put in place a constitution to solve the problems we have on the table today. i think it is essential that the commission should take up the point in our resolution which calls for a report on the cost of non-constitution. it is indispensable. i would even ask for more: that the commission commits itself, mr barroso, to present this report to this house and to the council immediately after the summer, in september or october, so that we can discuss with the citizens in particular how to solve, with this constitution which is not in force, issues such as irregular immigration, which has been discussed here. we must certainly continue the ratification process and, in the end, reach a solution that unlocks, but on the basis of this text, which is a good text: it is a consensus text. i think that is the direction the european parliament's resolution is taking. i would just like to ask you, mr barroso, that i applaud you today with great enthusiasm, and i am sure that this is the first time i have done so, and i am telling you this sincerely. if you keep the speech you have made here outside this house, i will keep on doing so.
i too, mr president, agree that measures should be taken to bring the european union closer to the citizens. i therefore support the europe of results that the president has mentioned today, mr barroso. the failure of the referendums in france and the netherlands was due not only to reasons of internal politics but also to the fact that some citizens do not understand or do not sufficiently value the process of european integration. we must strengthen citizens' confidence in the union, demonstrate its added value to them by more effective action in areas such as security, effective control of migration flows, job creation, etc. these are matters to which the european council must give the utmost attention. we also need to explain better how the union works and what its aims are. a few days ago, in aachen, prime minister juncker proposed that young europeans visit war cemeteries so that the new generations could properly appreciate the union's contribution to peace on a continent so bloodied by the wars of the past. i believe that the union should also have a place in schools and colleges. as my party's president, mariano rajoy, proposed a few months ago in paris, we should create a specific, compulsory subject in all schools in the member states, the content of which should be the origin, the objectives and the functioning of the institutions of the european union. this kind of education for young people is very important. we must also explain better another great success: the enlargement processes. we must emphasize that the prospect of accession has been a powerful driver for many countries to undergo major political, economic and social transformations to their own benefit and that of the union. and let me end by referring to the accession of romania and bulgaria, on which we are going to adopt a resolution today. these countries have made spectacular progress in many areas in recent times. they are undergoing the major transformations to which i referred earlier and i would like to highlight in particular romania's progress in areas such as judicial reform and the fight against corruption. i am convinced that if they continue along this reform path, both countries will be in the union on 1 january 2007 and i very much welcome the fact that the next european council will encourage them to concentrate their efforts on this common objective.
mr president, the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, mr brok, who was one of the negotiators for our political group on this joint motion for a resolution, asked me to table an oral amendment which, in principle, has been negotiated with the representatives of the other political groups. this amendment would be inserted in paragraph 6, which refers to 'special attention to the fight against organised crime'. it would be appropriate to add 'in the case of bulgaria' because the purpose of the amendment is to respond to the terms of the report drawn up by the commission in may, and it would be unfair to extend this requirement to romania when, in the commission's view, it is developing satisfactorily. these are the terms, mr president, of the oral amendment and i hope the house can accept them.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european strategy for sustainability is an important topic and an absolute priority of the austrian presidency. in the past months, we have been working on the subject in ten different council configurations to deepen the quality of the sustainability strategy in a broad, horizontal way, including with a dedicated 'friends of the presidency' working group, in order to evaluate and implement the sustainability strategy for europe. we want the european union to take a leading role internationally, to demonstrate its capabilities internationally as a 'sustainable union'. this applies to the european union with its central institutions, to local authorities, to regions and to municipalities. we want to send clear signals towards sustainable development. it would be a mistake to rely solely on economic growth, economic development and the lisbon strategy. it is not in keeping with european history, and i do not think it is sufficient to make a lasting impact in the future. we have the impression that, after the discussions, a balanced and at the same time politically significant text could be negotiated. in line with the mandate given by the european council in december 2005, a single, coherent document is now available, which brings together objectives, targets, indicators and a series of concrete actions for key union policies. this renewed eu sustainability strategy should be clearly visible to the outside world. the document to be adopted by the european council in the next few days contains no annexes and is clear and consistent in its structure. the constructive cooperation, particularly of the member states, and the intensive dialogue between the various parties involved have led us to this success which i hope will be achieved in the next few days. a number of contacts and good discussions took place with representatives of the european parliament. the presidency has made a very conscious and intensive effort to include the central points put forward by the european parliament in the negotiations - as far as possible also in the compromise of all - and i am pleased to say that the european parliament has been able to make a very positive contribution to the negotiations. you have mentioned on several occasions how the question of the link between the lisbon strategy and the european union's sustainability strategy can be seen in terms of qualitative growth. we want to make it politically clear that sustainable development does not, as some people claim, slow down economic growth, but rather supports and enables smart growth in areas of the future. that's our job with this strategy. we have repeatedly referred to issues such as renewable energy, environmental technology, greening public procurement, resources and energy efficiency, the environment as a factor for more employment and smart and innovative products and services, and mobility solutions in this strategy. growth cannot be an end in itself, but always only a means to an end. and the purpose is to improve the quality of life and the quality of the environment in europe, while also ensuring long-term competitiveness. if the people and the environment are doing well, the economy is doing well. europe has been and will continue to be characterized by a very special way of doing business, which is different from that of other economies in the world. the relationship with the lisbon strategy: the two strategies, with their own priorities and time horizons, are intended to remain separate but mutually supportive and mutually reinforcing. the main objective is to increase the visibility of the eu sustainability strategy at political level and to enhance its value. the further development and implementation of the two strategies will therefore be closely coordinated in terms of content. we want to make it clear that the eu's sustainable development strategy and the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs are not mutually exclusive, competitive or even overlapping, but rather complementary. the eu's sustainable development strategy provides a comprehensive framework within which the lisbon strategy, with its refocus on growth and jobs, can also act as a driver of a dynamic economy. the two strategies, in our view, underline that economic, social and environmental objectives can and should be mutually reinforcing and therefore conceived, developed and promoted together. both strategies aim to support the necessary structural changes to enable the economies of the member states to meet the challenge of globalisation, which affects us all in europe. the objectives and content priorities of the sustainable development strategy, which also compared to gothenburg 2001, become key challenges for sustainable development, are clearly addressed on paper and in the strategy, and also concretised by objectives and actions: climate change and environmentally friendly energy, sustainable mobility and transport planning, sustainable production and consumption patterns an important guide to the future , management of natural resources, health, social inclusion, demography and migration arguably one of the central challenges for the continent and global challenge in terms of poverty reduction and sustainable international development. as a key new challenge, the issue of sustainable consumption and production patterns was discussed in a particularly controversial way, but was then also included in the strategy. a major success is certainly the creation of a separate chapter in the strategy - also mentioned by several speakers here - which deals with the definition of the implementation mechanisms for efficient follow-up and the evaluation and verification of progress. you see, we've been working very hard on this sustainability strategy. we've engaged 10 council formations. we have tried to resolve this apparent competition between lisbon and sustainability, and i am very pleased that, taking your comments into account and after intensive negotiations with the member states, we are on the verge of adopting this eu sustainability strategy in the coming days. this is good for the quality of life in europe and it is a good sign for the future.
member of the commission. mr president, the sustainable development and lisbon strategies together address issues that really concern people. european value and quality of life surveys tell us that citizens want prosperity, but they also want a clean environment, good health, social protection and equality. the commission put forward its proposal for the review of the european union’s sustainable development strategy in december. this has been the subject of in-depth debate in the council, culminating in the adoption of a review of the strategy at the european council scheduled for tomorrow. i welcome parliament’s input from january on the stocktaking and orientations for the review, and i appreciate the involvement of many of you in the stakeholder debate on this subject. i look forward to working with you further on this, on the issues raised in the motion for a resolution amongst others. sustainable development is an over-arching objective of the union. the european union sustainable development strategy and the lisbon strategy work hand in hand towards this objective, although they should be kept separate. together the strategies are an agenda for change, for europe to adapt to a changing global context: new competitors, an aging population, and the impacts of demographic change, increased resource scarcities, climate change, biodiversity, and ecosystem loss, for example. they aim to stimulate innovation, including behavioural change, create level playing fields and engage all. the lisbon strategy and the sustainable development strategy are complementary. the much-needed economic growth must be decoupled from environmental degradation and must better safeguard social cohesion to ensure it can be sustained. at the same time, though, the worldwide drive towards more eco-efficient products and services creates opportunities for growth and jobs that we must seize. for both we need to act. by achieving results on sustainable development, we improve our chances of regaining citizens’ confidence in the european union. to achieve results, we need to focus and be clear about who does what. this implies a certain practical distribution of work between the two strategies. the lisbon strategy addresses concerns about medium-term economic performance, looking to stimulate growth and jobs and helping the european union to adapt to global competition and increased pressures on resources. to achieve this aim, the lisbon strategy comprises actions in a wide range of policy areas, many of which are central to sustainable development strategy, such as energy efficiency, environmental technologies resource use, and others. the sds addresses concerns about our prosperity, both in economic and quality of life terms, including issues that are more slow-burning, where time-lags mean that actions now have impacts into the long term. a good example is climate change, but also unsustainable modes of transport, social exclusion, health and how we use our natural resources. it also looks at broader global challenges and impacts beyond the european union’s borders. but let us be clear: lisbon and the sds are mutually reinforcing. the success of one depends on the success of the other. the priority now is to achieve results. there have been more than 20 years of debate on sustainable development, but progress in addressing unsustainable trends is too slow. we must move from words to action. some say that we are not ambitious enough. i disagree. the commission’s revised sds provides a new political drive for sustainable policies that apply to all policy areas. we also welcome the priority given by the austrian presidency to the revisions of sds and the draft conclusions that will be discussed at this week’s european council. we are talking about a new drive aimed at making the difficult changes across society that are necessary for sustainable development. the review of the european union’s sustainable development strategy is about how we can do things better to get results: first, about how we design policy, including policies within the lisbon agenda; second, about implementing what has been agreed; third, about making sure that we involve all those who need to act. the european union institutions cannot achieve sustainable development alone. the new strategy addresses some of the weaknesses of the previous strategy: unclear priorities, little ownership and absence of a clear monitoring mechanism. it confirms the main challenges, but clarifies the objectives and sets out a new and more rigorous monitoring mechanism. it includes regular reports from the commission, which are to be submitted every two years, drawing on the latest eurostat indicators. it includes national strategies, to be updated to bring them more into line with the european union strategy, and it includes peer review of national strategies to allow mutual learning. we need to learn from best practice and use every opportunity to multiply successful initiatives. by clarifying priorities, we will also facilitate the coordination of the lisbon and sustainable development strategies. the renewed sustainable development strategy re-emphasises the importance of an integrated approach. the problems are interlinked and so are the solutions. good use of impact assessments that address the economic, social and environmental impacts of proposals is key. horizontal measures, such as getting prices right, investment and research and innovation, education and skills are also important. the new strategy is about all of us assuming our responsibilities. involving stakeholders, businesses and citizens in delivering results is a priority. it is also about all european union institutions and member states working for the implementation of the strategy. we believe that the european parliament, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions should play a more active role in helping to implement and monitor the strategy.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, i am less optimistic than those who have spoken so far, because i think that the document that has been drawn up is a highly declarative document, which covers many existing topics, many speeches that we have all heard and which are leading to the concept of sustainable development becoming weaker and less respected. why do i say this? because for me, the structure in the methodology -- and i speak as a politician, as an academic -- is part of a mistake: part of repeating old topics, and not really analyzing what the problems of sustainable development are today. firstly, it is not clear whether the document has european or global ambitions. it doesn't make it clear. secondly, it is in line with gothenburg, but not with johannesburg. it also ignores problems such as the relationship between the economy and sustainable development. today, economic activities cannot be separated from sustainability, and, if we want to link it to the lisbon theme, even less so: that is to say, there is no employment, no possibility of development for the underdeveloped countries if we do not take into account which economy is the right one. there are economic activities necessary to maintain biodiversity. have we asked ourselves what economic activities are required or what role agriculture plays in the maintenance of animals? have we realized that if we want to talk about climate change and development in africa, we have to talk about nuclear energy to solve the problem of getting water through desalination and getting clean energy? if we are talking about climate change, we must also talk about nuclear energy, as a substitute for 30 or 40 per cent of what is produced. i mean, structurally, the document is not comprehensive. it does not refer to the economy and ignores industry altogether. and on the other hand, i think the demographic issue is not sufficiently developed. the migrations we have from north to south in europe are producing a sustainable development stress, as are the african ones. that is something that must be addressed, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of sustainable development.
substitute for the authors. mr president, as our colleagues in the commission and in the council know - and i thank them for their presence here in this house today - we take very seriously the improvement of the mechanisms for controlling european arms exports and the strengthening and strict implementation of the european union code of conduct on arms exports, and we are also very enthusiastic - very enthusiastic i would say - and we are also very keen to see that someday, hopefully not too far away, we can have an international arms treaty. all these are issues which we have already had occasion to deal with on other occasions and which we shall continue to deal with in the future. today, however, i would like to focus on a more specific issue: small arms and light weapons, the real weapons of mass destruction today, judging by the enormous lethal capacity they exhibit. just a fact: every minute, someone somewhere in the world is the victim of a gun. by the time i finish my exhibition, therefore, there will be five new victims in such macabre bearing. in this matter, time is not gold, it is much more important, it is life. i have before you some questions put to you in writing by my colleagues brok and von wogau on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and the subcommittee on security and defence, respectively, whom i have the pleasure of representing in this chamber. these questions are in fact related to the forthcoming united nations conference to evaluate and review the programme of action on small arms to be held in new york from 26 june to 7 july, and to the position to be taken by the european union at that conference. before going into the substance of the matter, let me warmly welcome the decision to have the european parliament represented as an integral part of the official delegation of the european union to that conference. this unprecedented development highlights the need to strengthen the dialogue mechanisms between the three institutions and offers a perfect opportunity to establish a more coherent and at the same time more efficient european policy on arms control. in the preparatory meetings we have had so far, we have noted, both with the commission and with the council - and i have always expressed my desire for institutional cooperation - that there is a high level of interest in coincidence in what i consider to be very great and increasingly improved cooperation between the three institutions. i would therefore like to focus my questions on the following points: firstly, what is the commission's assessment of the preparations for the conference and how does it intend to ensure that the european union's strategy on small arms is taken into account in the european union's foreign policy? and secondly, how does the council intend to approach the negotiations and what results does it hope to achieve? at this point, i would also like to draw attention to the resolution which was unanimously adopted by the committee on foreign affairs of this parliament and which will have to be ratified by the house tomorrow, and which in fact contains the position which, as a european institution directly elected by the citizens that we are, we would like you to take into account. i am pleased to note, and i repeat it, that in the discussions we have had, there is a very high degree of agreement on the issues to be discussed at the conference: the inclusion of ammunition in the scope of the programme, a better definition of transfer control, the tracking and marking of arms, brokering, the relationship between development and disarmament - something which i understand is of particular concern not only to us but also to the commission - and, finally, the establishment of guidelines for the follow-up of the conference. i am lacking - and i must say this - more concrete measures on how to deal with gun ownership and acquisition, and in any case that is a subject i would like us to deal with. on this last point, i do not conceal from you, although you know this very well, that this parliament has also insisted on numerous occasions that we would very much like the european union to take the lead at international level in adopting an international arms treaty. and although this is certainly not the subject of the conference we are now discussing, we would like to see the basis laid at that conference so that we can begin to move towards this objective immediately afterwards. i would remind you, if i may, that this is a petition which has already received almost a million signatures at international level, as confirmed by the ngos which have sponsored it, such as amnesty international, oxfam and iansa. as regards the role of parliaments in general, and of members in particular, i would like to stress the increasing importance of these institutions in the process, not only as legislators but also - and i would say primarily - as those responsible for monitoring the actions of their respective executives. to this end, the interparliamentary forum on small arms and light weapons is carrying out a very important work of awareness-raising and training of several members who are interested in improving the control mechanisms on these exports. they will find in us, the council and the commission, great allies if their objectives remain along these lines.
the president of the council. mr posselt, there will be no formal link, nor can there be. it is not provided for in the council's rules of procedure or in its practice. i do not think it is appropriate to press the commission for anything either. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the president of the council. i have to say, mr rack, i'm very sorry. i believe that the negotiations with croatia are an important example. many of the balkan countries - i know this from many conversations with their representatives - are oriented towards croatia; croatia is a pioneer and, given the progress it has already made in its economy and social policy, it certainly represents an incentive for the other countries in the balkan region. i would remind you that croatia has recently taken over the presidency of the south eastern european cooperation process after greece. this is also an important impetus for croatia to set an example together with the other countries - this is a forum made up solely of countries in the region. i personally expect a lot from the negotiations with croatia, and also from the other balkan countries.
the president of the council. mr. mölzer, i think that's what's going on. we in the european union, austria and the presidency of the council are very active in supporting croatia in its efforts. we have very regular, very intense contact. i do not think it is fair to say that the commission is missing something here. the commission is acting in accordance with the guidelines and i also believe that the negotiations are proceeding very well. we in the council will of course continue to support croatia in its efforts to become a member of the european union. i can only say that not only the economic data, but also the willingness of the country and the people in general, have been very well developed and that the negotiations will therefore take place relatively quickly. we'll build on that as a council.
the president of the council. the council wishes to inform mr evans that it considers it necessary to obtain further information from experts on this matter. the question is whether legislation is necessary and socially appropriate. the council has therefore suspended negotiations on the proposal until such information is available.
president-in-office of the council. i personally fully agree with you and i am sure that many of my colleagues in the council share that view. i would like to point out that the proposal was taken off the agenda, not withdrawn. it is a proposal that is important but needs to be studied very carefully. but i have taken note of your sense of urgency and will certainly share it with colleagues in the council.
the president of the council. the question put by mr mitchell is of course very topical and i shall be glad to answer it. the council has of course dealt with this question in great detail in recent months and has adopted conclusions on this subject regularly and on several occasions since the beginning of the diplomatic efforts to find a solution to this question, most recently on 15 may. the council also wanted to communicate a unified position of the european union. the european union must be united with the outside world in order to leave a lasting impression on iran. that is to say, the fact that these negotiations have been conducted by three member states in recent months should not obscure the fact that the council as a whole, including through the high representative, has always not only been informed but also involved in these negotiations, has supported them and is contributing to the conclusions. we have repeatedly expressed our deep regret that the iranian government has not taken the steps which the international atomic energy agency board of governors and the united nations security council in particular consider essential and has threatened, until recently, not to do so in the future. we have appealed to the iranian government to cooperate fully with the iaea. the council has not denied iran's right to peaceful uses of nuclear energy in accordance with its obligations under the non-proliferation treaty. and, on the basis of the proposals of august 2005, as reaffirmed in the february 2006 conclusions, the eu would be ready and remains so today to support the development of a safe, sustainable and non-proliferation-compliant civilian nuclear programme, provided and this is the other side that the concerns of the international community are fully taken into account and confidence, especially with regard to iran's intentions, is restored. the council remains resolute - and i believe it has communicated this very clearly to the outside world - and has repeatedly stressed its interest in a peaceful solution through diplomatic means. the eu would welcome an expansion of its relations with iran based on trust and cooperation. as you know, the high representative, mr solana, has just a few days ago presented iran with a package of offers from the european union, which is also supported by the other members of the security council - and this too seems to me to be particularly important - and the initial reactions can be described as cautiously positive. we hope that on the basis of this offer, which is a good offer, there will be a peaceful solution to this conflict, and we hope that this potentially dangerous issue will disappear from the agenda very soon and that we can reach a comprehensive agreement, a comprehensive understanding with iran, which will then also allow relations with iran to be further developed in all areas.
president-in-office of the council. the contents of this package are not openly known and it has also been agreed with iran that the detailed content of the package will be treated confidentially for the time being, as long as these negotiations, which are at a very sensitive stage, are carried on. as far as the reaction of the iranian side is concerned, i have said that the package was not rejected, which already is progress, because as we know, in the past, that whenever the european union and other international players have made an offer, this was flatly rejected by iran. now this is being studied by the iranian side and we can only hope, not only in our interests but also in the interests of iran, that this offer will be accepted.
president-in-office of the council. you have practically given the answer yourself. firstly, it is not up to the council to interpret what mr larijani said. if there are any ambiguities, we have made it very clear that he now has a fairly short time – just as you said, we are not thinking in terms of months but in terms of weeks – to clarify what these ambiguities are and what is necessary in order to clarify the european union’s position. so we hope to hear exactly on which points the iranian side is seeking more information, which we will give to them. i hope we shall be able to clarify those ambiguities to the satisfaction of the iranian side.
the president of the council. i can answer mr mölzer very briefly with a clear yes. i have been present at all the debates in the council - the last one was just a few days ago - and i can say that it is the desire of all the member states without exception to reach a common position on this matter, that this common position has never been called into question by anyone and that the european union is very united on this issue.
the president of the council. first of all, may i say that i am particularly pleased to be able to answer a question from my old friend miguel martínez martínez? i am happy to do so because, in the last few weeks, the question of the strategy for africa, the question of development and migration has been high on the european union's agenda. we have already spoken about migration this morning in the debate on the future and in the debate on the question of preparing the european council, and i have pointed out - and i am now doing so again in response to this question - that it is important that we deal with the issue of illegal immigration in the context of migration, not only - as important as this is of course - but that we also have to deal with the development policy aspects of this issue. migration was a very important issue in the troika meetings with both the african union and ecowas. the holding of an eu-africa ministerial conference on migration was confirmed and it was decided to set up an ad hoc working group on migration with ecowas. a euro-african regional conference on migration routes, which we consider very important and which we particularly support, particularly in spain, is to be held in rabat on 10 and 11 july. in this context, article 13 of the cotonou agreement, which provides for the mandatory readmission of illegal immigrants and also for dialogue with the countries concerned, also seems important to us. we started with mauritania and senegal. the european council will decide tomorrow or the day after tomorrow to speed up the dialogue with africa. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following countries: ten in west africa and four in east africa; regional and african coverage of these bilateral discussions and their outcomes; the establishment of a follow-up mechanism to the rabat conference; and a series of regional conferences on the subject. as regards your question on development cooperation, i would point out that this year's european union monitoring report has shown that the european union is on track to meet its commitments made in barcelona in march 2002 and to increase the level of official development assistance by 2006 to a corresponding national rate of 0.33% of gross national product and to a rate of 0.39% on the eu average. i would like to reiterate that all the objectives set at the millennium summit are, of course, achievable. these are commitments which must be met; the individual member states have very clear obligations in this respect. as regards the question of economic partnership agreements with groups of african countries, i am well aware that this question of the epas is also a very important one in our dialogue with africa. we have made commitments on this very specific matter a few days ago in port moresby, papua new guinea, when we negotiated the acp financial protocol. the commission has agreed to provide funds from both the current and the next european development fund. we are aware that the question of economic partnership agreements with africa and with developing countries in general is of particular importance. we will be able to make a full analysis of the state of play of the negotiations on the basis of the first comprehensive review to be held in the second half of the year and then move on swiftly in a way that will hopefully be very efficient.
thank you, mr winkler. i'll see you in a bit. naturally, your answer is satisfactory. i would just like to ask you how you honestly believe that the commitments we have made, which you reiterate, will be able to be reconciled with the financial perspective we have approved, because we are not getting our money's worth. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i would also like to know whether you will be in vienna for the joint parliamentary assembly meeting we are going to have next week, because that is where we are going to be able to talk to our african, caribbean and pacific colleagues about the subject of the epas for example, and i would also suggest and ask you to invite observers from the acp-eu joint assembly and the euro-mediterranean assembly to the rabat conference, because i believe that the presence of these parliamentarians will have... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate mr costa on this report, which puts the finger on the sore in those aspects which were left out of the first regulation, which, as a result of the terrible attack of 11 september, was drawn up between the various institutions with a rapidity and a capacity for response worthy of praise. but it is true that at that time some important aspects were left out of a negotiation which was conducted in response to a moment of importance in the field of security. and it is true that mr costa, in this proposal for amendments to the regulation presented by the commission, which is already being established as a framework regulation in a situation of evaluation of the contributions made through comitology and application of experience, has managed to improve - i think - those aspects which were most necessary: those which introduce the concern and the interests of the parties involved, both from the point of view of the member states and from the point of view of airlines and airports, and also those aspects which have not yet been dealt with in relation to financing and which are so dear and so dear to mr costa, who has made great progress on them. but it is true that there is one point in mr costa's proposal which we believe has been confused by his desire to improve this regulation: the package of clauses relating to the application, which has been traditional and historical since 1987, of all the regulations relating to civil aviation safety applied to gibraltar airport. there is an amendment which we have tabled from various quarters and perspectives which, while in no way undermining the security of gibraltar airport, preserves and protects the problem of a historic dispute which is now on the verge of being resolved. i would therefore ask mr costa not to add a new point of conflict to an agreement which has been under negotiation since december 2004 and which will avoid, in relation to gibraltar airport, this suspension and this neutralisation. we would therefore like you to accept this amendment which simply restores something that has been historical, without in any way undermining civil aviation safety.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr cramer warmly on the comprehensiveness of his report, which deals in a sharp and profound way with all the problems we need to overcome to achieve full interoperability and facilitate the disappearance of railway frontiers. it must also be admitted that the vote in committee improved - i think - its initial proposal, by extending it and making it less restrictive, recognising, among other things, the efforts of those countries which are already implementing it. and i am talking about countries like my own, spain, where forty years of dictatorship left us completely isolated - as is now the case with the baltic countries, historically linked to russia also by a railway of a different width - as a result of a different track width, apart from the difficulties of the terrain. the enormous effort we have had to make in spain to renew our railway network with european funding has led us to apply directly the european signalling and speed control system, which we are talking about at the moment. it seemed logical for the spanish to catch up with the historical backwardness and to let ourselves be carried away by our europeanism, clearly betting on an integrated system such as ertms, which is the future of the railway. in fact, i should like to congratulate myself on the fact that, precisely in the last few weeks - and i hope that the delegation from the committee on transport and tourism which is visiting my region next week will have the opportunity to see it - we have managed to overcome and solve a technical problem with ertms, which has led to a great reduction in the distance and to making passenger railways in spain even more attractive. in future, of course, some problems relating to freight rail, such as barrier level crossings, will have to be solved.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by expressing my thanks and gratitude to the rapporteur, mr ó neachtain, who has presented an excellent report. i should also like to extend my thanks to the whole committee on fisheries for having taken up this important subject in the form of an own-initiative report. it is clear that small-scale coastal fisheries are in many ways different from fishing activities conducted by larger boats. many of these differences are highlighted in the report, and i should like to mention just a few. small vessels stay close to the coast and mostly conduct fishing trips of a single day. the businesses are small and mainly family-based, and in most cases only one person operates the vessel, with the maximum being not more than three. the catches are landed and also often marketed locally, thus making this segment more dependent on the local economy. this part of the fishing industry is fragmented and not equally represented in shipowners’ organisations. these vessels operate in coastal areas, which are often biologically fragile, and where there is a lot of competition with other users, such as other fishing vessels or recreational fisheries and tourists. however, i should like to stress that not all of these differences are disadvantages. in fact, some of them are distinct advantages, such as the freshness of the landed fish. however, it is also true that coastal fisheries have handicaps, and i agree with most of your conclusions in this respect. i absolutely agree that it is not an easy task to define coastal fisheries, but this is exactly why i would strongly recommend basing ourselves on the definition which is used in community legislation: vessels of up to 12 metres not using towed gear. this definition was agreed almost ten years ago and is a good basis for further action. however, it does not mean that at national or local level additional criteria could not be used when defining the role of the different players in coastal fishing areas. on the contrary, coastal management actions and plans should include further criteria depending on the specific settings of the area and the fleets involved. let me now turn to your specific suggestions. here, again, i agree with most of your proposals, and in particular the establishment by local fishermen of coastal management plans, the harmonisation of data on coastal fisheries, the improvement of training for men and women involved in this type of fishing, better coordination of all aspects affecting coastal areas and fishermen, the improvement of vessel safety and of the safety culture for those involved, the need to recognise the role of women and improve their legal work status and, last but not least, the better involvement of coastal fisheries in decision-making and representatives bodies, such as the racs. but this leads me to the question: who does what? i am deeply convinced that it is first and foremost the local fishing communities themselves who have to come together, get organised and propose actions and initiatives. secondly, many of the aspects that were mentioned are under the responsibility of the member states, for example education and vocational training, jurisdiction over coastal areas up to 12 nautical miles, and the control and enforcement of safety standards, etc. however, i also agree with you that we have a role to play at european union level. you, the european parliament, have started with a study, the hearing of last november and this own-initiative report we are discussing today. the commission has already started work too, and i have proposed specific treatment under the european fisheries fund, which will hopefully be adopted next week. among other possibilities of particular interest to coastal fishers: the proposed european fisheries fund reduces to 20% the private contribution for the modernisation of vessels for owners of smaller ships. it gives them more favourable treatment in the conditions for engine replacement and urges member states to give ‘safety tonnage’, preferably to smaller vessels. i think that this is a package of better treatment for this segment, which will contribute to bringing about some of the improvements mentioned in your report. in addition, there are several areas of the common fisheries policy where coastal fisheries are treated differently or exempted from obligations, such as the requirement to use a logbook, remote sensing and vms requirements. in relation to conservation, however, small-scale fisheries have to take full responsibility in the management of fish stocks, because coastal waters are often the place where fish spawn and grow in the early stages. before concluding, let me just mention that my services have recently commissioned an important study, which is under way at this very moment, and which will give us a new and up-to-date insight into several cases of small-scale fisheries located in different regions and seas of the community. the findings of this study are expected in the coming year and i am sure that they will help us to assess whether further action is needed and how to tailor it. i take up your suggestions and, building on your valuable work, will join forces with all the stakeholders, the member states and, last but not least, all those who make a living from coastal fisheries in order to engage in concrete action to improve the situation and the conditions for this segment of the fishing fleet. thank you for your attention.
opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality and i have to say that the work of women in the whole fisheries sector, and in particular in shallow-water fishing, should be given greater legal and social recognition. although only 3% of women are involved in extractive fishing, a high proportion of women are active in other fisheries-related activities. in an economic structure built mainly on small family businesses, most women work hard but without economic or social rights, as they do not have a sufficiently clear employment status and, moreover, in working conditions that are, in many cases, highly detrimental to their health. it is therefore urgent - and we say this in the report - that both the commission and the member states take the necessary measures to guarantee the rights of all these women. women working in this sector should also have access to finance, credit and vocational training on equal terms with men. it is also necessary to ensure the participation of women in the decision-making, representation and consultation bodies of the communities involved in shallow-water fishing. at a time of transformation in the sector, important changes are taking place that directly or indirectly affect women and therefore both men and women must be involved in finding solutions. we therefore ask the commission to recommend to the relevant bodies that appropriate measures be taken to ensure a balanced presence of men and women. the lack of gender-disaggregated data makes it very difficult to find solutions to the problems of women working in the sector. we therefore call on the commission, through the european institute for gender equality, to provide a rapid solution to this issue. making these women more visible also means using the right language to reflect that in the fishing sector there are women and men and not just men. i therefore think it is very appropriate, and we support, the proposal, which the rapporteur has just also defended, to change the word 'fishermen' in the title of this report to 'fisheries communities'. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow groups such as the women who work in shallow-water fishing to be left unprotected. the committee on women's rights and gender equality calls for greater recognition of the work of these women and for solutions to the specific problems arising from it.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, whom i congratulate on behalf of my group, for his excellent report, which would not have been able to be adopted if he had not had the generosity to accept many amendments and suggestions from other members representing different fishing areas with very different concepts of small-scale fishing. it should be borne in mind that these vessels represent about 80% of all community vessels and that this type of fishing is practised in all coastal member states, although each has its own particular characteristics. it is precisely the treatment of this aspect which seems to me to be one of the best achievements of the report, since it has specified a number of criteria which may be common to most of the small-scale fleet, which in some member states is defined by length, in others by the type of treatment of fishery products, or by distances to the coast, or by the duration of the tides, or by a combination of several criteria. the definition of small-scale fishing, which, as community legislation does, is limited to 12 metres, is therefore a fiction that is not in keeping with reality and which we hope will be amended in the near future in community legislation. it is also important to stress the responsibilities and obligations of this fleet in the conservation of resources, since, although they are small or medium-sized vessels, it must not be forgotten that they are very numerous and operate in waters that are very sensitive to overexploitation, being areas characterized by a high concentration of juveniles. finally, i would like to record an unfinished business that has a large part of the fleet with security. i would like to stress once again that the future european fisheries fund must take account of the need for modernisation and renewal for reasons of safety and also for reasons of energy saving, in order to alleviate the crisis in the fisheries sector caused by the increase in diesel prices. and i do not think that the agreement reached in coreper and which is going to the council of ministers offers all the measures that this parliament called for in the house report on the european fisheries fund (eff), where there were many more measures that would certainly make the situation of renewal and modernisation of small-scale fishing much more flexible.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, in this report the european parliament explicitly recognises the fundamental contribution of shallow-water fishing not only to local economies but also to the maintenance of the social fabric of coastal communities, which is in dire need of cohesive elements. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, our colleague mr ó neachtain, on the happy thought of proposing this own-initiative report at a particularly sensitive time for small communities, which are faced with problems that are urgent and need to be addressed. the first is the ageing of its vessels, whose modernisation needs to be supported further, in particular to improve living and working conditions on board and to establish a safety culture, starting with safer and more modern vessels. the second, the absence of young people. i agree with the rapporteur that a commission initiative on training is needed to encourage young professionals to enter the sector. but the training has to go further. it must include safety at work on board, protection of resources and protection of the sea and coastal areas. low-water fishing, when well regulated, is an essential element of ecosystem conservation. and training must also include improving the quality of catches, marketing and management of small businesses, because these are the issues that can enable small fishermen to consolidate their business results and improve their living standards. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate in particular the rapporteur for the committee on women's rights and gender equality, mrs riera, who has made very valuable contributions which have enriched the report. indeed, women play a key role in the sector and, if well organised, can make an important contribution to the socioeconomic development of fishing-dependent communities.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i join in the general appreciation of the work of my colleague herbert bösch for his tenacity in protecting the community's financial interests and his follow-up of olaf's activities. this year we are therefore pleased - i am particularly pleased with references to aspects of agriculture which affect my country - with the marked improvement in quality and the reduction of fraud in the member states and, in particular, with the success achieved in the smuggling of cigarettes, which shows that the union can impose itself on those multinationals which sometimes seem impossible to control. but this year we also have a new development which is very worrying and which confronts us all - but especially the commission - with a greater responsibility: is the respect for the fundamental rights of the persons under investigation guaranteed? i say this because the judgment of the court of first instance of 6 april 2006 in the irela case, in which the commission was ordered to pay compensation to an official and in which, for the first time, the investigation carried out by olaf was condemned in the clearest possible terms, requires us to reflect and react in depth and radically so that, in an irrefutable and very clear way, the revised regulation on olaf investigations, which is just being prepared for submission, guarantees the independence of the control of the legality of the investigations carried out and, above all, maximum respect for the fundamental rights of the persons investigated, applying the principle of prevention in a radical way. it is not possible that our union, the communities and our institutions should be giving lessons on respect for the fundamental rights of individuals to all the countries around us, and even to the member states themselves, and that we should not be able to maintain this principle of prevention and respect for the fundamental rights of the individuals in our own household who are the subject of an investigation. then it's always too late.
mr president, we see that there is a problem with the voting list: it is stated that if amendment no 91 is adopted, amendment no 12 will be dropped, and in fact there are two supplementary amendments, one as a supplementary and one as a supplementary. that is, the 12th does not fall, but the 91st is adopted or not adopted, and then the 12th is voted on.
mr president, in fact, in line with one of the amendments we have adopted, the oral amendment is to add spain to the list of countries where there have recently been serious acts of violence, violations of rights for racist and xenophobic reasons. that is the reason for the oral amendment and the reason for including it. i would therefore like to stress, and this is also consistent with what we have said, that we are not denouncing a country, but an event that has recently occurred in a country.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the european citizens and researchers on the adoption of the buzek report on the seventh research programme. i think it is a hope for all those who believe in basic research, with the creation of the european research council, in frontier research, in the most advanced, despite all the risks involved. i think it is also a support for small and mediumsized enterprises and also a hope for all those people who depend on research in the field of health, something that has been emphasized a lot, the budget has been increased in this programme and, moreover, with the support of all the political parties. i think we're in a hopeful situation. we must now encourage researchers to join the project, support universities and regions to join this common task and thus work together for the benefit of all. it is also a flexible and open programme, much more than the previous ones, which has enthusiastically introduced the humanities, historical heritage and other aspects of culture. congratulations to all of you.
mr president, in these days when the commission must be putting the finishing touches to its reform of the wine cmo, the debate in this parliament today has a lot to do with the competitiveness of european viticulture vis-à-vis that of third countries, a competitiveness which the commission says it wants to promote with its reform. the use of oak wood in the production of wines is a practice recognised by the international vine and wine office (oiv). the conditions for using this practice are, however, pending approval by the management committee. today, the protection of the wine sector is so limited that it is necessary to reconcile the preservation of traditional practices, such as barrel ageing, with the possibility for european wine growers who so choose to compete on equal terms with producers in third countries, all of which, of course, offer the greatest guarantees of transparency and information to the consumer. in our opinion, this practice should not apply to wines that have undergone ageing or that bear traditional terms such as crianza, reserva and gran reserva. the label is there precisely to avoid confusion among consumers, clearly identifying whether or not such a practice has been carried out, for example by reserving the term 'roble' for traditional barrel ageing. the basic regulation of the common customs tariff also allows member states to impose stricter national conditions on oenological practices and treatments in order to ensure that the characteristics of their quality wines are maintained. in my country, the regulatory councils are the first guarantors of the quality of spanish wines. but for the time being it is the commission which is responsible for setting the conditions for the use of this practice at community level. we therefore ask you to do so with the necessary transparency, so as to avoid any confusion for the consumer and to ensure that the same measures are applied to imports from third countries. we would also like to know why the commission is fragmenting the debate on wine-making practices, when they should be dealt with as a whole. moreover, in autumn 2005 document com ((2005) 395 was sent to us for consultation, containing a number of technical amendments to the basic regulation: replacement of distillation of by-products of winemaking by withdrawal in slovenia and slovakia, modification of the classification of areas planted in poland or new labelling particulars. but those modifications did not include the addition of oak chips. i do not think it is a problem of translation, since neither the french nor the spanish versions introduced such a change. if that were the case, the committee on agriculture and rural development might not have opted for the simplified procedure to deal with this matter. can the commission therefore tell us when it decided to introduce this new element and why it did not wait until the reform of the cmo to do so?
mr president, i would like to join mrs lulling in her question on the wine cmo: why has the debate not been held? and secondly, i would ask you to put in the record that i spoke on behalf of mrs miguélez ramos, in the same way that mr vatanen spoke on behalf of mr daul.
member of the commission. the decision i have spoken about at political level is the council decision stating that this process will be applied. that's a thing that's just been closed, and i think that's obvious. the document you're talking about is pending, but according to my legal information, there's no way to stop it for procedural reasons.
author. - mr president, for many of us, the case of timor has been a kind of laboratory for many years, in which we have learned how to manage conflicts related to the legacy of colonization. at the same time, it has been an example that has enabled us to test, improve and correct certain practices in international aid. however, the process of international accompaniment that led east timor to become an independent country again has, as is often the case in such cases, many bright and dark sides. in view of what is happening these days, the first thing to be said is that the international withdrawal was probably a little premature, and i think the security council's decision to extend the united nations mission in that country was very right. we must also acknowledge and welcome very positively the decision of the timorese authorities to request an international commission to investigate the violent events of 5 may, when a group of hundreds of military personnel who had resigned from their posts clashed with others who were still in office. these events are also taking place in the context of more or less widespread violence, which has left several victims dead and injured, as well as thousands of refugees. this is clearly not the scenario that the international community wanted for timor. we cannot therefore now hold back from this situation and must show our total and absolute solidarity with those who are making efforts to find a solution to the problem. and we must especially support the actions taken by president xanana gusmão and minister ramos horta on behalf of the government. finally, i also believe that it is good to learn from past mistakes, and that is why we call in this resolution for the establishment of mechanisms for horizontal communication and cooperation between international forces, with a view to providing a better service to the timorese people and to an effective restoration of public order and normalcy in the functioning of the institutions.
author. - mr president, north korea is sadly still one of the most frequent offenders against human rights. and far from helping to improve its image, certain attitudes of the north korean government only make it worse. an example of this is the repeated decision of the government of the democratic republic of the congo to deny access to the un special rapporteur on the situation of human rights and the un special rapporteur on the right to food, as well as to various humanitarian and human rights ngos. numerous reports warn of the increasing departure of people from the country as refugees, as well as the existence of practices such as torture, summary executions, arbitrary arrests and imprisonment in inhumane conditions and without procedural guarantees of defence. any opposition to the regime is forbidden and any expression of criticism of government policy is harshly prosecuted. the case of sonj nam, who was tortured and sentenced to death, despite repeated calls for the case to be reviewed with greater guarantees, is just one example of this, as has already been mentioned by other speakers. in view of all this, we must once again take this opportunity to call on the north korean government: first, to assume the human rights commitments and principles laid down in international law and to incorporate them into its own legal framework; secondly, to proceed with the abolition of the death penalty; thirdly, to release all those imprisoned for wanting to exercise freely their fundamental rights; and, lastly, to guarantee freedom of expression and freedom of movement. it is also appropriate to ask the neighbouring people's republic of china to stop repatriating refugees fleeing north korea to south korea. finally, given that the european union was the first and only entity to establish a human rights dialogue with the north korean government, and also given that this practice ceased when in 2003 the council of ministers sponsored a declaration on human rights in north korea within the high commissioner for human rights, it also urges that such a dialogue be re-launched as soon as possible in order to be able, as has been said, to recover this area.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 15 june 2006.
i must announce the recent death of our old comrade joaquim miranda, who was a member of the european parliament for 18 years. as you know, joaquim miranda was president of his political group, the left coalition, between 1993 and 1994, and also president of the development committee of our parliament between 1999 and 2004. he was here until the end of the last parliamentary term, during 18 years of parliamentary work. his death is a loss to us all. i invite you to observe a minute of silence in his memory. (the house will be asked to rise and observe a minute's silence)
we now come to the only item on our agenda, namely the joint debate on the european council report and the commission statement on the meeting of 15 and 16 june 2006 in brussels, as well as the statement by the council's presidency-in-office on the austrian presidency's six-month term of office which is now coming to an end.
the president of the council. the european parliament, mr president, has been very active in this area. let me begin by reporting on the outcome of last week's european council. this summit was the logical continuation of our efforts to promote confidence between the institutions, to give europe momentum and to do concrete work for the citizens of europe. our motto was, so to speak, from reflection to action. we have chosen a two-pronged approach in this presidency and at the summit, namely to offer a europe of concrete projects on the one hand and to revive the constitutional debate, to start and revive the debate on the future of europe with the citizens on the other. we have drawn up a document at this summit, on our own responsibility, listing over 30 concrete projects which, by 2010, will have established the union's rich work programme for the next few years, in the form of an agenda 2010. we have also discussed some very concrete projects at this summit, some of which have already been successfully completed. the most important was probably the financial forecast. the negotiations with parliament on the interinstitutional agreement were concluded and the budget for 2007-13 is effectively secured. that's a compromise that can be seen. the total of 4 billion more for future-oriented programmes, the increase in the expenditure ceiling and the addition of two budget lines - so a total of 4 billion more - are exactly the priorities set by parliament. the second very important issue was the services directive, which is a clear signal that we are able to reach an agreement on controversial issues. i would like to pay a special compliment to parliament, because it has shown the way, almost breaking a door through the wall, to resolve a very controversial issue in a successful dialogue with the social partners. we have spent a lot of time behind the scenes with the european social partners. they were able to attend the european summit in the spring for the first time. i think that was a very successful cooperation overall. the third theme was better protection of european citizens abroad and more efficient consular cooperation. we have now been able to ensure much better coordination between the local consular offices. the coordination of teams deployed in crisis areas and the use of transport in the event of disasters is much better. the report by michel barnier, which was handed to president barroso and myself at the beginning of may, has become the basis of a presidency document in which we have agreed on a very precise programme of work for the next eight presidencies. we also have to offer substantially improved work on a common visa centre and the implementation of pilot projects in the transit regions of ukraine, belarus and moldova these projects are already intended to provide the most effective protection to asylum seekers in their home countries. the schengen area could be extended to include the new member states by the end of 2007/beginning of 2008, once the conditions are met. we have seen the commission's model for a policy debate, and the first time at the spring summit it was on energy. now, at this summit, at dinner, at a free discussion, the topic was integration and migration. president barroso and i accompanied him, but above all the spanish prime minister, josé luis zapatero, gave a very interesting presentation of the current problems. i find this free discussion of a new topic incredibly exciting. this is one of the most important problems of our time, at least for the citizens of the countries concerned, and i would also like to thank the commission, which is helping a great deal on the ground. we have now, in cooperation with the member states and the commission, secured surveillance of the west african coast. there are currently some centres, each holding up to 50,000 people - there are several centres - waiting for the sea to calm down, to go to the canary islands in suitable boats, all equipped with gps and with provisions for a five-day journey. this is an urgent issue which we must not turn a blind eye to. it was very interesting to hear this open debate for the first time, and i agree with professor weidenfeld, who said in an interview these days: 'europe is really the most vulnerable continent, whether it is because of the waves of people coming into our countries, or wanting to come in, or because of security problems'. the european union must not forget that in the last few weeks we have made some dramatic discoveries which are positive in the fight against terrorism, but which also show the vulnerability of europe. the council confirmed the european institute of technology. the commission will make a proposal on this later this year. the plant is to be put into operation in 2009 at the latest. we have enlarged the eurozone, which is a very important signal that this zone is open to all new member states and that it is not a kind of fortress, a closed shop. slovenia will join, and the way will be open to all other reforming countries. however, i am also quite frank here: we have had a very intense debate on the criteria, and this is now my personal opinion or the majority opinion: we must not shake the criteria. i am also quite frank here in the european parliament: the credibility of one of the most important projects of european integration is at stake. (applause from the centre) we have started the energy policy. an action plan is being prepared for the 2007 spring summit, which will ensure security of supply for consumers, but also make a big impact on the environment through energy saving and renewable energy. one issue was particularly important to me personally and i thank the member states and the commission for their willingness to take a new approach here. i have been working to address rare diseases, which affect children in particular, through a special action programme. these are things like butterfly disease or mps or other rare diseases that cause terrible pain, often even death within a few years. the number of patients in all european countries is so small that we cannot develop a national programme of effective support. the commission will now coordinate this, and the seventh framework programme will bring effective action and added value to our citizens. i think this is a really important issue, especially for a very heavily affected group. we have made some important developments in the area of youth unemployment at the spring summit: training and education opportunities, employment opportunities within six months for every young person, and by 2010 even within four months. the sustainability strategy, a new, revised and now comprehensive instrument, was adopted at this european council. this strategy of environmental compatibility is an essential element of the european model of life and we therefore support it in the long term. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. one year after the negative referendums in the netherlands and france, it was our task to make an assessment. first of all, we must bring to an end the period of reflection, which has often been derided as a pause for reflection - more pause than reflection. it was a necessary phase, because it has at least determined how we move forward, but it is not enough! reflection is not enough. we need action, we also need a very clear timetable for how we are going to proceed. we also know that we need new elements in the text of the treaty. it will be difficult to imagine that the treaty as it stands will be voted on again. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left to its own devices. (applause from the centre) it was important to show this solidarity, and this was also well done in the discussions at this european council. not a single member of the european council has questioned the content of the constitutional treaty - i will return to this later. and i think that is a key achievement of this debate. ladies and gentlemen, the german presidency will therefore present a report on the state of play of the discussion and possible further developments during the first half of 2007. the new element - i say this on my own responsibility - can be either a name, an interpretation, an annex or a methodological question. that will be up for discussion. the substance, i believe, must remain untouched. the german presidency's report will be the basis for further decisions, and here too a timetable has been fixed, so that this phase must be completed at the latest with the beginning of the french presidency. the sooner the better. it can be before, but it has to be in the second semester at the latest. a very important point will be - and here we all took up the idea and also the suggestion of mr barroso - that a special european council meeting will be held in berlin on 25 march 2007 to mark the 50th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome. the european model of life is to be defined there. this declaration will have a similar meaning to the messina declaration 50 years ago. we have been able to clarify and develop a number of points on enlargement during the six months of this year. we have confirmed the target date for bulgaria and romania of 1 january 2007. we have defined and confirmed the accession prospects in a separate informal meeting of the foreign ministers for the balkan states, for all the balkan states. we have started negotiations with croatia and turkey. we have confirmed macedonia as a candidate. we have signed the stabilisation and association agreement with albania. we have recognized the independence of montenegro after a successful referendum and we are now working with the serbs on a specific action plan, as we have done in the case of croatia, so that we can also offer the serbian people a perspective in a very difficult time for that people. we asked the commission to define at this european council the question of admissibility, which is a very important condition for the admission of other members - i quote the conclusions of october 2005 on the occasion of the opening of negotiations with turkey and croatia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. this special report is to be presented at the same time as the annual enlargement progress report in the autumn of this year. the third theme was a more efficient, open and simple union. we have entered new territory with the debate on the future of europe, with the sound of europe event, with the subsidiarity conference 'europe starts at home', with the celebration of europe day, with the discussion with young people, with artists, with images of opinion in the café de l'europe. we have held many events with the european parliament and with the national parliaments. we also held a very important informal meeting of foreign ministers in klosterneuburg. i'll give you the results very briefly. keyword further improvement of working methods and comitology. we have worked hard - as i promised at the beginning - to ensure that the council's decisions are transparent and public when we act as legislators in the codecision procedure, and we have succeeded in doing so. it was difficult - and i admit that some member states were very reluctant - but we have made a very decisive step forward, which the european parliament has always called for. the european parliament is also expected to play a strong role in the comitology procedure. no one understands the practical implications of this, but i know it was very important to you. the secretary of state, hans winkler, who is sitting behind me, has really spent hour after hour trying to find a common path here. i would like to thank him very much for his efforts. he has been in the european parliament more than in austria. (applause from the centre) it has, in particular, ensured that parliament is given equal status with the council in the co-decision procedures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. in the area of subsidiarity, we have ensured that national parliaments are more closely involved. in better regulation, we have ensured - again an initiative of the commission and some member states - that we can discuss the way forward at the 2007 spring summit and hopefully agree on a savings target of 25% reduction in administrative burden. the commission is of course proposing. i would like to conclude by mentioning some important contributions to european internal policy. the decisive question for the citizens is always, of course, what will happen to jobs. what makes me personally happy - and this is not the council's fault, of course, but primarily the cyclical processes and also the results of the policies of the member states - is that in june 2006 we have over 2 million more jobs in europe compared to june 2005. this is a good achievement to be demonstrated in the context of the new lisbon strategy. (applause from the centre) and it proves that our ambition to create 10 million additional jobs by 2010 is realistic if the environment is right and if we do our homework right. it was very important to me that we strengthened national ownership, political responsibility, and that we made the respective ministers responsible for the internal market responsible for this implementation of the lisbon strategy. i have written letters to all the member states and have spoken personally with their representatives. i am pleased to welcome back six member states which have now made the minister for the internal market the coordinator, as is the case with our minister for economic affairs and employment, martin bartenstein. that makes 15 of us. i hope the other ten will come. i would also ask parliament to promote this national ownership at home. the research programme was important, of course. the research budget is now about 60% higher at 54 billion euros. the small and mediumsized enterprises are being strengthened, the european driving licence is being enforced, the european road toll directive has been adopted this semester and the transeuropean networks have been adopted. next week the first stone will be laid for the test tunnel of the brenner base tunnel on the last day of the austrian presidency. this is probably the most important and largest infrastructure project that europe has ever planned and co-financed. we have also been able to put forward a very good consensual solution during the austrian presidency for public transport, public services and services of general interest. in the field of relations with third countries, there were of course the summits with japan, with russia and, tonight and tomorrow, especially with the americans. i can certainly deal with that in the discussion. a year ago, we have to admit, there was a lot of sadness. the budget had failed, the constitution was on ice after two negative referenda, we had the bombing in the london underground and the buses. the services directive was a nightmare, especially for the trade unions and for small and mediumsized enterprises, and we had deep rifts between the member states, between the member states and the institutions and, above all, between the citizens and europe. today, far from everything has been resolved, i do not want to say that. but i'm telling you, we're financially secure for the next seven years. the services directive seems to have been resolved to everyone's satisfaction. five other member states have ratified the constitutional treaty since last year, another member state will ratify in the autumn, and two other member states have stated at this european council that they are considering such a step. and no member state has challenged the substance. i would therefore like to thank you very much for this team europe in this half-year. first of all, the european parliament - we have had at least over 60 speeches by austrian government ministers here, and as i was told by our statisticians, this was the highest attendance of any presidency. i would like to thank president borrell in particular for his cooperation, his friendship and his suggestions, which he has repeatedly made. i would like to thank the group chairmen for the many discussions we have had in the groups and also here in parliament and in the committees. i would like to express my respect and friendship to the commission and my thanks to josé manuel barroso, the secretary-general responsible for foreign policy, javier solana, the council secretariat and, finally, my own team. i can tell you quite frankly that it has been a real pleasure and honour to have held the presidency of europe for six months and to have worked with you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the ode to joy, which we have as a hymn, is not an ode to sorrow. we should therefore simply say goodbye to the austrian presidency, tristesse! let's take a little more joy in our work. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
then let us rejoice, mr chancellor, and thank you for your speech. before i give the floor to mr barroso, i think i should take this opportunity to thank not only you but also all your ministers and all your collaborators for the excellent cooperation which you have developed with the european parliament during your presidency. i would like to emphasize that my thanks are not just personal but also addressed to all the people, men and women, who have accompanied you and your ministers in their appearances and in the work that is being done behind the scenes. i thank you for your three debates here in the european parliament; i thank you also for the two debates in which you took part in the forum between the national parliaments and the european parliament, and i am sure that you also thank me for the diligence with which your ministers have tackled some of the most complex issues - you have referred to them - such as the issue of comitology, a quiet and silent, thorough and detailed work which has made it possible to overcome some of the oldest obstacles to greater involvement of the european parliament in the legislative process.
mr president, the reflection period has been rather a time of paralysis, very much like the reaction of some animals in the field when they are blinded by flashes of light that are totally unexpected. schüssel asks us for joy, barroso asks us for confidence and for brighter colours, but something more is required of them so that we can give what they ask for. it requires more realism in diagnosis and more courage to face what is really necessary. you know what's necessary. it seems clear that we have to wait until 2007, for the elections in a member state to really start moving. instead, the wide possibilities offered by the present treaties must be used. in that sense, the movement towards transparency deserves all the congratulations and we must start working on realistic options. among those realistic options is not the practice of putting an old dish, which is absolutely dry, in the microwave to be served again. we have to cook again, because if we simply reheat a dish that no one is willing to digest, the indigestion will cause a much greater rejection than it caused the first time it was served.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to answer the questions briefly. first, the subject of the us summit. i shall start with this subject immediately, since it has been raised by several speakers. you are quite right that we must pay great attention to the transatlantic dialogue and its results. if america and europe work hand in hand and not head to head, then something can really be done. everybody needs to know that. and with all the legitimate, critical aspects of american behavior that you can't just blink an eye and ignore: the american-european friendship and partnership is an important cornerstone for the future. that is my deep conviction. and i want to say that here, even if it's not popular everywhere. (applause from the centre) we are therefore going to make some very important milestones at this summit, for example. firstly, an agreement whereby america and europe will defend themselves against product piracy with very precise concrete actions. we want to cooperate on energy, where the americans are ahead of us. the americans are far ahead of us in research into renewable energy sources, and we will make a joint effort to achieve the kyoto targets, to protect the climate and much more. foreign policy is also important, of course. the middle east, iran, iraq, afghanistan - these are all very important issues, and it is self-evident that we should not lose sight of the long-term goal, such as a transatlantic free trade area and a comprehensive agreement. you can be sure that the subject of human rights, guantanamo and cia overflows will come up naturally. i did that myself when i auditioned in washington in december. i say this also because during the austrian presidency - it is perhaps not so well known that hans winkler was also one of the pioneers and i agreed this with bush in december - we started a dialogue at the level of legal experts - john bellinger from the state department and now the international law office in austria - and we started to work out what to do. because it is clear that there are gaps in international law. and these gaps are going to be debated very intensely in america, right up to the decisions of the highest courts. yesterday an interview with john bellinger was published in the austrian standard, which i find very interesting. we have also been able to eliminate certain elements - and i hope that this will continue to be the case tomorrow - which are very important to me: there must be no legal space! there must be no torture under any circumstances. there must be no kidnapping of people and no detention in secret prisons or detention centres or whatever those fine new-spoken terms are called. this must be said in the knowledge that we can and must do a great deal at the same time - and this is also thanks to the americans - to export democracy, to strengthen ngos and to strengthen civil society. these issues are being addressed. secondly, on transparency: i really don't want to make an austrian campaign because that is not my intention at all, but it is interesting that the austrian greens have all left the hall. i think it is a little unfair to accuse me of not seeking dialogue with the citizens. because the café d'europe was really an attempt to go into everyday life. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. from coudenhove-kalergi to many writers, thinkers and journalists, europe is still made in coffeehouses. to dismiss this as an elite project, if i may say so, is just not right. we also used the new media. i was surprised to see that our own website, future europe, europe hears, had 8 million hits. think about how many politicians have the opportunity to speak directly to 8 million people! we've had 32 million hits on the presidential website. i think we can do more and we should be more confident. this is not about self-praise, it's about professional work with new media. on enlargement: this question is very important to me because i was austrian foreign minister and president of the council in 1998 when we started enlargement. sometimes it was an uphill struggle, an uphill battle. i have sometimes had the majority opinion against us and against my strategy in austria. but we have stood firm and today we have, for example, on the czech republic, which was a very sensitive issue, a majority in favour of the czech republic joining. i'm very pleased. that means it's okay. it is only necessary to advocate for it, and olli rehn, in particular, who has invested a great deal of time and energy, can confirm this. ten years ago, the wage/income gap with the new member states was 10:1. today it's half. this is a win-win situation. we can export, we have hong kong on our doorstep and we can benefit from these growth impulses. we just have to have the courage to stand up and tell people what's going to make a difference, and not just spread bad breath all the time. (applause from the centre) the question of turkey is also part of this. you have to tell the truth. i have fought hard to open negotiations with turkey and to close a chapter. but one thing must be clear: the commitments must be respected. the commitments contained in the ankara protocol must be respected absolutely, and it was not a particularly good sign of european timing to make these declarations last week, which are very disappointing for all those who have been very committed to this european path, to turkey's integration into europe. the second and last point is the constitutional treaty. let me be very frank here. we need some new elements. this is clear to anyone who is fond of this child of european unity born in pain. everybody knows that. i'm not a fan of the term "constitutional treaty". it was a very strange compromise anyway. it is not a constitution, it is not a treaty, it is a constitutional treaty! let's call it something else because it resonates with other things. you should know that. and we're going to need interpretations, of course. that is why this explanation of the messina type is very important. why was the opposition to this constitutional treaty mobilized in part? because there was concern that more liberal or other tendencies were being overemphasized. i disagree. i believe that it contains massive individual social rights. it contains 12 specific fundamental rights which can be challenged before the european court of justice. no one knows. i believe that we must try to put this element of european life and the social model more at the centre. and if we do that, then we're better positioned and we don't have to worry about the critical section. because in the eurobarometer survey, at least - if i read the figures correctly - 63% of european citizens were in favour of such a constitution or treaty. it is not possible for a minority to leave its mark on the whole of europe. it must be possible to reach a common consensus solution, which some of us, of course, object to. of course, that's part of democracy. but it must be possible for the majority to fight for a majority view, and i do. (applause from the centre) i would like to make a brief comment on the question of the local signs, because not everyone is in the picture. last year, i was involved in the installation of 20 additional bilingual plaques in austria, with the participation of the governor and the cheers of all political parties. i have a regulation under consideration now, which calls for another 60 to be drawn up. we are waiting for a further finding from the constitutional court this week, and we will decide next week. but more importantly for me, regardless of the boards: the most successful aspect of the minority policy in carinthia is that currently 36% of all compulsory school pupils in carinthia attend a bilingual primary school class and thus learn german and slovenian on a voluntary basis. (applause from the centre) this is the real success of the european model, that we become voluntarily curious about our languages. i'm very pleased about the praise that we brought a bit of realism into it. i don't care about the sounding phrases, they're exposed as hot air the day after tomorrow. you have to prepare very professionally for what you have to do, and the finns will do that good luck! exactly like that. matti vanhanen and his team, erkki tuomioja and all the others will do it just like we do and later the germans. but we can still learn a little, not only culturally, but also sportingly from what is happening now. i have just calculated that so far we have played 32 games in the world cup, 20 of them against europe and the rest of the world, that is, against other continents. our record is 12 wins, 4 draws, 4 losses. that's not bad for a global player, and if we replicate that now politically on other levels, then nothing can go wrong. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, after the chancellor’s comprehensive summing-up of the debate, let me just say a few words about enlargement after the european council. the commission welcomes the conclusions on enlargement of the european council, skilfully presided by the austrian presidency. these conclusions pave the way for a new consensus on enlargement in the european union. this new consensus should, above all, enhance our enlightened self-interest to extend the zone of peace, democracy and prosperity in europe, while, at the same time, ensuring our capacity to function effectively and gradually absorb new members. i want to draw your attention to three particular conclusions. firstly, the european council rightly underlines the success of eu enlargement by stating that it has proved a historic opportunity contributing to peace, security, stability, democracy and the rule of law, as well as to growth and prosperity in the union as a whole, to which chancellor schüssel rightly referred. secondly, i am satisfied that the european council did not change the criteria of accession that were agreed in copenhagen in 1993. no new criteria were set up; instead, the european council reaffirmed that it will honour its existing commitments pacta sund servanda. thus it confirmed the eu’s consolidated enlargement agenda, which covers south-eastern europe, i.e. bulgaria and romania, turkey and croatia and the other countries of the western balkans. i shall have an opportunity to talk about turkey and its reforms and commitments at this afternoon’s meeting of parliament’s committee on foreign affairs. thirdly, the european council stresses the importance of ensuring that in the future the union is able to function politically, financially and institutionally as it enlarges, and to further deepen europe’s common project. it is a very important dimension and objective for this house and for the commission. as we know, the european council will hold a debate in december 2006, and the commission was invited to report on all the relevant aspects of enlargement pertaining to the union’s absorption capacity. this corresponds by and large to parliament’s resolution following the brok report some time ago. the commission will duly and gladly present a strategy document on enlargement, including absorption capacity, as part of our enlargement package in october/november 2006. i have started to prepare that document, and we are looking forward to a substantive and responsible enlargement debate with parliament and the council. this debate should not be limited just to the eu institutions: it should also reach out to civil society, both in the member states as well as in the candidate countries. it is time to create a new consensus on eu enlargement policy, based on the consolidation of our commitments, rigorous application of conditionality and better communication with our citizens. that is the best way to ensure that enlargement remains a success story, as has now been acknowledged by the european council. (applause)
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 1.30 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on tuesday 20 june 2006.
ten years after the dutroux affair, belgium is again plunged into a cruel drama. two girls, stacy lemmens and nathalie mahy, have been murdered. their names are added to those of julie and mélissa, to those of an and eefje, and to that of leyla. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my condolences to their families. some may think that this is a fait divers, an isolated individual incident affecting only the victims, but when does a fait divers become a matter of society? i believe that this is a matter of society and that, whether in belgium or in any other country where such tragedies may occur, we cannot remain indifferent when it is innocence itself that is killed. we have an obligation to reflect deeply on why and how in our developed and civilized societies this kind of behaviour continues to occur. that is also what politics should be for: to prevent them, to avoid them, to help the families of the victims and also to prevent the possibility that the same tragic event may be forgotten and repeated. that is why i believe that we are not yielding to the dramatic moment that public opinion is living when we stand up and remember these victims: because we are not facing a singular, isolated event, an event that merits only a place on the page of events; no, we are facing a real problem of our society that has a lot to do with the dark depth of the human soul. while i was preparing these words, news also came to me that a tragic railway accident has probably caused 40 deaths and hundreds of injuries in valencia. that is why i think it is a good occasion for us all to join in with a minute of silence to the pain of all these victims. (the house will be asked to rise and observe a minute's silence)
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 29 june 2006. the following amendment has been proposed:tuesday:the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has received a request to refer back to committee, pursuant to rule 168, mrs roure's report on the protection of personal data (police and judicial cooperation), which was due to be voted on tomorrow, tuesday. mrs roure, would you like to explain the committee's proposal?
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, the council, the commission and the committee of the regions have signed agreements with the spanish government for the use of the co-official languages of spain in their activities. the bureau's rejection of a similar agreement in the european parliament has provoked a resounding reaction in favour of its reconsideration. the president of the xunta and the president of the parliament of galicia have both asked for a favourable decision in their messages. the bureau will be dealing with the matter again at its meeting today. parliament, as the community institution which directly represents the citizens of europe, cannot close its doors to institutional cooperation which provides it with the means to intensify its relations with the citizens and to give a european dimension to their linguistic rights. diversity, a source of richness and mutual openness, is the true meaning of european unity and a real counterweight to overcome the homogenizing tendencies of globalisation.
thank you very much mrs. krupa, i must say that they do not write only to you. the president of parliament has also received a letter from the president of the polish parliament expressing concern and rejection of the resolution adopted by the european parliament. this letter has been forwarded to the members of the conference of presidents and will be the subject of political analysis at its next meeting.
mr president, this afternoon it will be decided whether the citizens of catalonia, the basque country and galicia will finally be able to address the european parliament in their mother tongues. i hope that the letters from the presidents of the parliaments of catalonia and galicia to this presidency will help to win the respect and support of those who have opposed what will be a great step forward in bringing over 11 million speakers closer to the european union. it is only a first step, from which we must proceed to achieve full recognition of the rights of these citizens, who have made their european tradition and vocation one of the pillars of their democratic societies. i would also like to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that when we defend the use of these co-official languages of the spanish state by its citizens in their relations with the union, we are also defending the linguistic rights of all those speakers of the member states of the european union today who have not yet seen them fully fulfilled in the normal functioning of this parliament; they have our full support.
thank you mrs. badia. i am grateful to you for informing me of the existence of letters from the presidents of the parliaments of catalonia and galicia which are not included in the dossier which will be submitted to the bureau for consideration. the house services will find out whether these letters have arrived or are still on their way.
we're gonna find out what happened, to avoid any kind of discrimination and because we can't keep adding cases. after the polish plumber, we can't go into the belgian car case now. mr. mccreevy must have taken a good note.
this closes this spot.
the following is the interim report by diana wallis, on behalf of the committee of inquiry into the equitable life assurance society crisis, on the equitable life assurance society crisis [2006/2026 (ini) ] (a6-0221/2006).
mr president, mrs wallis' report is an interim report, because the committee of inquiry still has a lot of work to do. in any case, a parliamentary committee of inquiry is not a court of law, that is to say, this committee will not be able to decide whether there has been correct or incorrect behaviour on the part of the british authorities in regulating the matter; that would be for the courts of law to decide. what is being revealed at the moment are shortcomings in the european union's legislation, which is designed to allow such activities to be carried out across national borders. what we are detecting at the moment is that there is no control mechanism in cases of action across national borders. in theory - as the commission representative told us - each national authority is responsible for supervision, but when the company went bankrupt, neither the irish authorities nor the german authorities could do anything because the company's subsidiaries or branches in their respective countries were closed at the time. the 6 500 pensioners in ireland, as mentioned by mr ó neachtain, and the thousands of pensioners in germany were therefore left without any possibility of control. a parliamentary committee - i have said this before - is not a court of law, but it can draw conclusions from a legislative point of view. i think the lesson we can already draw from this is that at the moment the principle of mutual recognition, the so-called 'community passport', is not enough. when community legislation is being enacted, it must also provide for an effective control mechanism which, by eliminating the principle of the country of origin or country of provenance, effectively allows the institutions of the european union to monitor the functioning of institutions which operate across national borders. i think this is the most important conclusion we can draw at this point.
mr president, first of all, i would like to join with all those who have congratulated mr muscat on his report on the consolidation of financial services and, in particular, on his proposal to set up a committee of independent experts. i shall refer mainly to the phenomena of mergers and acquisitions on the european stock exchanges. over the past 30 years, technological developments, the free movement of capital at international level and financial innovation have brought about profound changes in capital markets and increased the participation of domestic savers in financial markets in general and in securities markets in particular. in some european countries their share is about a third of their savings, and in others it is a fifth. the demutualisation of stock exchanges, which began in asia in the mid-1990s and was subsequently extended at the beginning of this decade to the main european stock exchanges in london, paris and frankfurt, and which is still being carried out, as is currently happening in spain with the listing process, has led to restructuring, has generated concentrations in the internal market, as is the case with euronex or the scandinavian market, and all of them are positive, insofar as they tend to reduce costs and to expand transactions and listing markets. in my view, the recent announcements of transatlantic mergers and acquisitions represent a qualitative change. however, despite the growing convergence on both sides of the atlantic, substantial differences between the two markets persist, which have been identified both in the stock market model and in the market structure itself or in the elements of post-trade. it also comes at a time when the european union, having adopted the mfi directive and when it comes to its future application, is aiming to complete the european financial market. at the same time, a major debate has been initiated on the updating of the stock markets. a debate on its role in the future, on organisation, structures, transparency, economic aspects, competition, governance and infrastructure. we are at a time of very important changes. there are therefore many questions to be answered and it is therefore not a question of simply acting on a case-by-case basis, but of formulating the general interests of the european union, assessing the impact of the operations announced on them, anticipating the consequences of the operations from the political, regulatory and economic point of view and, of course, seeking the best response, knowing that financial and stock market policy has important effects on the monetary policy of the european union. and i think it is also necessary to assess the best way of ensuring transparency, stability and balance on the part of the european union for the proper functioning of the financial markets as a whole. this is the task we must carry out.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank the members of parliament for their very important speeches and contributions to the debate this evening. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. mr bradbourn said that aviation is a global industry and therefore the international civil aviation organisation should be responsible for the matter and that scientific conclusions and scientific evidence should be taken into account as well as the very important study that the committee in the house of lords has done - which i have seen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to say that the european union's cooperation with the international civil aviation organization is excellent. and particularly on the issue of climate change we need to take action at european union level for the simple reason that in the 6th community action programme the european union has agreed that it must identify, propose and take measures if the international civil aviation organisation had not proposed measures by 2002. that deadline has long since passed. we must therefore take action and, as i said before, the european council last december invited the commission to submit the relevant legislative proposal to the co-decision procedure. in any event, the measures we are considering will not bring the european union into conflict with our commitments under the international civil aviation organisation, since the organisation itself has advocated an open emissions trading system. in particular, it has accepted the inclusion of emissions from international aviation in existing national emissions trading systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. last year, as you know, the community's rights trading system, which is the largest, the first international trading system, was put into operation, and now, of course, is the right time to extend it to include air transport in a way that is compatible with the international civil aviation organisation. the european union contributes about 50% of the total carbon dioxide emissions from international aviation in relation to the countries in annex i, i.e. those countries which have restrictions under the kyoto protocol. the measure proposed by the commission will therefore undoubtedly have a significant impact. we hope that other countries will follow this example. finally, i would also like to refer to the concerns that have been expressed, namely that our proposal will put european companies at a disadvantage vis-à-vis companies from third countries. this is not the case, there is no such risk because, according to the commission's proposal, the marketing system will cover all airlines operating flights in the geographical area, in the geographical scope of the system, irrespective of nationality. this means that airlines in the european union will be treated exactly the same as their foreign competitors. i hope that the house will adopt the resolution and support the commission's proposals.
mr president, i welcome an opinion report from this house seeking alternatives and measures to mitigate the negative effects of aviation on the environment and its impact on climate change. i warn against proposing measures to increase the price of kerosene, take-off and landing fees or airline ticket prices, since these measures will directly affect users, who will bear a price increase by the companies. this increase would be detrimental to tourist areas such as islands and would impose a cost burden on imported products, which would affect consumers living in island regions. it would also mean a loss of competitiveness for the islands, a slowdown in access to continental markets and the full integration of island regions into the so-called 'highways of the sea'. i call on the commission and the european parliament to carry out a study of the economic impact of the proposed measures in all regions before they are taken, paying particular attention to regions with structural disadvantages due to natural, geographical and permanent conditions, such as islands.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to express my satisfaction with the agreement reached. the most important thing at the moment is that this legislation is implemented as soon as possible. in this way we will increase our objective of transparency of environmental measures taken at community level. i would like to highlight some positive aspects, such as the work done by the trilogue, with the participation of the commission, the austrian presidency and the group of members who spoke in the trilogue. i think that all this work has led to a strengthening of access to information on environmental matters, by making the exceptions more restrictive and their interpretation more restrictive. i would also like to stress, with regard to public participation in decision-making, that it is very important that public participation has been extended in the preparation, modification or revision of environmental plans and programmes financed by the european investment bank. it is also an achievement for the public that when decisions are taken on environmental plans or programmes, the relevant community institution or body should inform, and not just make reasonable efforts - as the text said earlier - to inform, the public in all decisions, because in this way we increase transparency in this type of process. the most important agreement on access to information is perhaps the one reached under regulation 1049. as this regulation is in force and relates to public access to documents held by the institutions of the european community, there will be a regime for access to all kinds of information held by the institutions and bodies of the european union. finally, in addition to reiterating my wish that this agreement be adopted tomorrow and implemented without further delay, i hope that the community institutions and bodies will recognize that its effective implementation will be to the benefit of all and act on this basis. it is a legal tool which can help us in many cases to preserve the environment.
as the first item on our agenda, i shall make a statement on the 70th anniversary of the coup d'état of general franco in spain on 18 july 1936. as you know, a group of 200 members signed an oral question to the commission and the council, the purpose of which was explicitly stated as being to discuss condemnation of the franco regime on the 70th anniversary of the francoist coup d'état. the conference of presidents did not accept this request and considered it more appropriate to have a statement by the president, followed by the various political groups' views on the significance of this date; that is what we are doing now. it is a date already far in history: 70 years separate us from july 18, 1936. it is almost as much as the life expectancy of the generation of spaniards that we are leading the transition to democracy, a transition considered model, but whose success needed selective forgetting or postponements of memory, which now emerges in a recovery process that fills the bookstores and is even shaped into laws. as i said two years ago, i belong to this generation - as do many of the spanish members of parliament here - and it is inevitable that my personal relationship with the past will determine my memory. but this is an institutional statement, as speaker of the house, and my remembrance today must be a political act that transcends the personal. because bringing our past into the present is an act of will that has to do, above all, with the future we want to build, and we want to build it not only on the fragile and perishable memory of each one, but on history, which is not remembered, but learned, and which, for that reason, can be shared. and history tells us that on that day part of the spanish army - only part - rose up against the government of the second republic, democratically elected by the spanish in 1931. a great hope was thus frustrated, because this republic had come with the spirit of promoting democracy and tackling pending reforms of great depth: the agrarian, the military, the separation of church and state, the establishment of a social security, the statutes of autonomy for the regions, and rights such as women's vote or divorce, in a deeply patriarchal society. these reforms became a benchmark for many european countries. it was a reference for democracy in europe, the new frontier of democracy in europe, a democracy that, at that time, was going through difficult times, because it had sunk in italy, in greece, in poland, in hungary and in germany. that is why the military coup not only led to a long and cruel war in spain but also ended the hope for europe that andré malraux had spoken of. the spanish war was not just a war and it was not just spanish. it was a clash between two great world views. yes, the two spaniards of larra and machado were returning, and each spaniard had one of the two spaniards frozen in his heart. but a war between the spaniards would not have been so long, it would not have lasted so long, simply because our own forces would not have allowed it. the war was a defining moment in world history. it had an international significance of enormous magnitude. from 1936 onwards, the future belligerents of europe in world war ii began to directly or indirectly confront each other in the spanish civil war. spain was the first major battle of world war ii, a test bed for a future war that would devastate europe. for the first time in history, the bombing of civilian populations was experienced. guernica is in everyone's memory, but there were many guernica in spain. europeans gave their lives on both sides and their names are on the cemeteries of madrid, jarama, belchite, teruel, guadalajara, the ebro... mythical names, where so many europeans rest and who later walked on the backs of the tanks that covered the geography of european liberation. that war for some was the last great cause, for others it was a crusade. i remember the crusade, the bishops saluting in the fascist fashion, surrounding generals at the entrance of the churches. i also remember the cemeteries full of the shot of both sides. it was the most passionate war, in which the ideologies of the 20th century - democracy, fascism, and communism - first clashed. it was a war of religion and, at the same time, a class struggle, a revolution against a reaction. it was a confrontation that would continue in europe and that also continued in spain, once the war was over, because it was not just a war, there was also a long and hard post-war period, where it was no longer a matter of winning the enemy, since the war had been won, but rather of eradicating it, to maintain a system that remained for a long time and forced spain to remain aloof from the process of democratization and also from the reconstruction that europe experienced, thanks to the marshall plan. many colleagues in the eastern countries remember the isolation they suffered as a result of yalta and the iron curtain that separated them from a free, democratic and prosperous europe, and that is what has happened. but it is less remembered that in southern europe there were countries - spain and portugal - which were also isolated from this movement and remained for a long time under military dictatorships. i remember an american congressman once reproaching me that the europeans were not grateful for the liberation effort which the united states had made with europe. i had to remind him that, as far as spain is concerned, that effort was conspicuous by its absence, because, precisely because the military regime was useful to them in the cold war, they forgot to liberate us. today i would like to make my own the words of salvador de madariaga, whose name is on one of our buildings. before 1936 salvador de madariaga said all spaniards lived in spain and in freedom. today he said in 1954 a few hundred thousand live in freedom, banished from spain and the rest live in spain banished from freedom. freedom returned from 1975. we are beginning to build the foundations of a community based on democracy, freedom and the european perspective. new generations have opened up new political demands with regard to the future and the past. they have found a war and a dictatorship closed and, when today in spain we talk about moral reparation for the victims, what we want to do is discuss the active memory of our country, of our society, to take on the full burden of our past, to honor all the dead, not to discriminate in memory that part that may be uncomfortable for us, not to lock ourselves in the lies that console and to face the truths that illuminate. these are painful wounds that have healed in europe, but which are still in the memory of many people, because they could not exorcise them in their day. that is what gives meaning to an act like today's here in the european parliament, to confront the living past of a part of the memory of our continent, not to repeat yesterday's mistakes, to critically condemn those responsible, to pay tribute to its victims, to express our appreciation to all those who fought for democracy, suffered persecution and promoted the return of spain to europe, as our common homeland. (applause from the left)
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting a report on the situation in spain, which is a very important one. i would like to stress that our position is essentially based on our full support for the values of reconciliation, of overcoming a tragic past, which were the driving force behind the democratic transition and which culminated in the 1978 constitution. on a day like tomorrow, on 5 july 30 years ago, the president of the government of spain, adolfo suárez, took office, assumed responsibility for carrying out our democratic transition. for those of us who, like me, had the honour and opportunity to serve that project, to be part of that party, the union of the democratic centre, which had the responsibility for the material implementation of that transition from the government, with the effort of other political formations, with the unequivocal support of spanish society and with the impulse of his majesty the king, that appeal to the end of the two irreconcilable spain, the reminder of the values of the spanish constitution of 1978, freedom and reconciliation, arise from the depths of our convictions. because the mistake, the absurdity, the tragedy of the last century in the history of spain, was the ease of recreation of the two spaniards, the exaggeration always present in our territory, the ease with which those two spaniards were convinced of the impossibility of a democratic coexistence. we all know the origin and the reason for the existence of the european union, which is based on the same moral strength of that spanish constitution, the moral strength of those who join, the moral strength of the union, so that our recent past will not be repeated, so that no more world wars born on european soil will be initiated, no more wars, no more dictatorships, no more communist regimes, no more civil wars like the one we had suffered in spain. the new european nations may make mistakes in dealing with our present and future problems, but there is one mistake we cannot make, one mistake we have no right to make: repeating historical mistakes, not learning from the mistakes of our history. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we must not change our attitude, and that is why it seems to many spaniards to be a historical mistake that today we are trying to promote a second transition, as if the first had become old and obsolete; it is a historical mistake to unilaterally break the essence of our constitution of concord; it is a historical absurdity to introduce in spain the debate on the right of self-determination, the creation within spain of new nations that have not existed; it is never a historical mistake because it takes us away from our concord. so, mr president, on this 30th anniversary of the spanish democratic transition, which began on 5 july 1976, and on behalf of the group of the european people's party, let me conclude with a 'viva! for reconciliation, a 'viva! for freedom, and a 'viva! for the spanish constitution of 1978. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank everyone for their participation in this debate and i would like to thank the members who have attended the debate, especially those who are not spanish, for the interest they have shown in this historic event, which was undoubtedly a tragedy. i would also like to point out that we have been joined in the audience by people whose historical memory has brought them here. (applause) i would like to thank
the following is the joint debate on: - the recommendation of the committee on regional development on the proposal for a council regulation laying down general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 (09077/2006 - c6-0192/2006 - 2004/0163 ((avc)) - the recommendation of the committee on regional development on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the cohesion fund and repealing regulation (ec) no 1164/94 ((07890/2006 - c6-0191/2006 - 2004/0166 ((avc)) - the proposal for a council regulation laying down general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund and repealing council regulation (ec) no 17860/1999 (cod) no 162/1999 (cod) no 1782/1999 (cod) no 0186/1999 (cod) no 0186/1999 (avc)) - the recommendation of the committee on regional development and cohesion (a6-06-06-024) - the commission's second reading of the european parliament and of the council) regulation (ec) no 1789/1999 (cod) no 1790/2006 (a6-06-06-02 (cod)) - the european parliament and council regulation (ec) no 1786/1999 (a6-06-06-06-06 (a) of the european parliament and of the council) and of the council on the european parliament and of the european parliament of the european parliament of the european parliament and of the european parliament of the european parliament of the council regulation (agreement of the european parliament and the european parliament and the european parliament of the european parliament of the european parliament and the council of the european parliament of the european parliament of the european parliament and the agendas and
i would like to congratulate the four rapporteurs on the regional funds, not merely out of courtesy, but because they have done an excellent job, with tenacity and ability, which has resulted in the incorporation of a large number of amendments in the final text, which the council has already approved. it has been an honour for me to chair these debates and thus to witness firsthand this success. it is a pity that the governments of some member states have shown themselves to be intransigent and that the council has not been able to adhere to the institutional declaration, which is intended exclusively to open a debate on the surpluses of cohesion policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the discussions in the council last december on the financial perspective and now on the fund regulations, we are left to wonder whether some governments intend to call into question the most successful, the most visible of european policies: cohesion policy. i am convinced that the vast majority of europeans are committed to solidarity and that our parliament, always at the european commission's side - and i would like to express special appreciation for the work of commissioner hübner - will be the guarantor of this essential pillar of european integration and the backbone of europe.
mr president, today we are concluding with this debate the work of parliament on a very important aspect of cohesion policy, a policy which involves more than 300 000 million euros, which clearly shows that we are talking about one of the priorities of the european project. the elimination of territorial differences, support for infrastructure and the economic and social development of our peoples and regions have been the basis of this work. parliament has introduced important changes to the regulations which are used to implement this policy and which have considerably improved its content in terms of the environment, accessibility for people with disabilities and participation by civil society. we have recognised the differences between the regions within the territory of the european union: rural and urban regions, islands, outermost regions, regions losing population, etc. specific initiatives must be taken in each of these areas. we must be satisfied with the launching of a technology fund under the erdf to close the technology gap, and with the facing out in the cohesion fund to make progress on the path of convergence, recognising that while it is true that priority must be given to the countries with the greatest needs, there are also other regions and member states which need to continue on this path. this is reason enough to support this policy wholeheartedly. only then will we advance the idea that more cohesion is also more europe.
mr president, this proposal from the commission and the council, which we are debating today in this house on second reading, is the clear result of the commitment to and with the enlargement of the european union. i cannot and must not express my concern that the requests of the island regions of the european union to recognise the structural problems they suffer, problems caused by their natural and permanent geographical conditions and specificities, which are slowing down their economic development, have not been taken up. the treaty of amsterdam, in its declaration no 30, recognised that the structural disadvantages suffered by the islands should be compensated by specific measures in favour of these regions, with the aim of integrating them into the internal market on equal terms with the rest of europe, improving their access to continental markets and achieving a territorial, sectoral and temporal balance of their economic activity. however, in this case, again, the specific measures necessary to alleviate the natural, structural, geographical and permanent disadvantages of these island regions have not been taken. it is precisely this permanent nature which makes these specific measures necessary to alleviate and correct the inevitable extra costs of insularity. i would therefore like to point out, mr president, that when the regulations on the funds were drawn up, no account was taken of the need to apply a more intensive cohesion policy in those regions which suffer from these natural disadvantages, such as the islands, as was done with regard to the outermost regions, which have been granted this favourable treatment. what we are calling for for other island regions, although not so far from continental europe, are measures similar to those for the outermost regions. it is not a question of granting privileges, but of compensating for the undoubted difficulties facing our islands.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the report which we are now debating is very closely related to what we have just discussed. the impact of restructuring, mainly in the industrial sector, on european economies and, above all, on workers has been discussed so far. the report we are going to discuss next concerns those measures, ways or policies which can have a positive impact in resolving the unemployment situations in which workers in industries which are closing or relocating remain. the report we are now discussing concerns the fundamental factor which influences the possible resolution of these situations and which has a decisive impact on the development of european economies and, therefore, on the possibilities for progress of european societies: it is simply the concept of innovation. innovation is the key word; innovation is the concept which can offer us a possible solution to the problems which have been dealt with in the previous debate and others or, on the contrary, which can take us away from that solution once and for all. in this context and in the wider perspective of revitalizing the lisbon agenda, the commission presented a report which sought to integrate a whole series of decisions that had been happening since 2000 until recently, which affect innovation and which propose a series of measures to improve innovation in european economies. i would like to mention three essential aspects which are dealt with in the report i have drawn up. firstly, education and training, and i would say and add, the mindset 'there is a profound problem of mindsets when it comes to tackling innovation'; secondly, the organisation, for the better development of innovation; and thirdly, funding. as regards education and training, i believe that they are - as some of the colleagues who have spoken in the previous debate have stressed - fundamental. lifelong learning, flexible learning, learning which enables people to adapt to the new needs of the market are absolutely essential if we are to have a society in which there are really effective opportunities for everyone, at all times of change. a society which has relegated the values of entrepreneurship, effort, self-requirement and, ultimately, innovation, which are linked to all of the above, is incapable of surviving. i think that in this respect, ladies and gentlemen, we must be very aware of what we are facing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to do this, it is essential to promote a change of mentality, to put back into place those values which made european societies great societies, which pushed forward and which were at the forefront of everything that was happening in humanity. i think that this is a fundamental point and, of all the aspects we could discuss in this and other reports, i would like to focus on this essential aspect today: we must reach a great deal of agreement, a great deal of agreement, from the european parliament, from the commission, from the council, so that the values of effort, self-requirement, doing, undertaking, are inculcated in europeans from their birth and in their formation. if not, we'll be left behind. time is running here, too. if we do not go forward, european societies will be left behind, and we will bear a large part of that responsibility.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, continuing with the football analogy, we have also seen a team like brazil, which has played with great players, but has not played as a team. here, in innovation policy, we have to play the big and the small together. the team is europe and we need to combine all our efforts to succeed. i would like to congratulate mrs del castillo vera on her excellent report and thank her for her open-minded and inclusive approach in formulating this proposal. i would also like to stress three points. first, in innovation, small is beautiful. if we want to create stable jobs, if we want to instill a new culture of innovation, it has to enter the thousands and thousands of smes across europe. the report therefore recommends that particular attention be paid to this point, to ensure the involvement of these small and mediumsized enterprises and to be able to achieve the necessary change in innovation. secondly, i would like to mention that innovation also means opening up. it means encouraging the flow of information, it means that we need an innovative strategy, one which balances the protection of industrial property with the free dissemination of technical knowledge and free and unhindered competition. this will help to promote solidarity, knowledge and greater social cohesion. finally, i would like to say that innovation is green. innovation means new methods to enhance energy efficiency, ecotechnologies, clean production, to achieve a more competitive economy and create more environmental and social well-being.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the commission on the opportunity to present a document which provides practical and important measures to achieve an effective science and technology policy in order to achieve the lisbon objectives. and i also congratulate the rapporteur on her report, which is a very realistic picture of the obstacles which the european union must overcome if these actions are to achieve the desired results. i shall deal with three points. firstly, the need to create an attractive single market for researchers. it is clear that, in order to achieve the objectives it has set itself, the european union needs more properly trained researchers who know how to use their human resources by promoting transnational cooperation. this requires an effective fight against brain drain, incentives for the best foreign researchers to come to work in europe, the promotion of scientific careers among young people, improved working conditions for research staff, the removal of obstacles to mobility and the promotion of the conditions necessary for women to participate in science and technology on an equal basis with men. the football analogy does not apply here: in order to move forward intelligently, the team must be mixed. secondly, i would like to mention the need to support smes in their research capacities. in this connection, i would like to stress the importance of the instruments proposed in the ipa and the seventh framework programme to improve access to finance for smes, which is their main obstacle when they try to improve their innovative capacity. finally, i would like to highlight the proposal to strengthen the structural funds for research and innovation. the structural funds have been strengthening r & d structures on the basis of a territorial distribution of resources with convergence criteria. it is therefore important to promote coordination between the various community r & d programmes with the fundamental instrument of regional development policy, the structural funds. these are the three points i wanted to highlight in a document which can be very useful for our future work.
the rapporteur. madam president, before i begin, let me make a brief reference to the serious accident that took place yesterday in valencia, in which 41 people lost their lives. as some of my colleagues know, i was born and live in the city of valencia and i would therefore like to begin by expressing my sincere condolences and solidarity to all the families of the victims of this tragic event and, of course, to wish all the injured a speedy recovery. the truth is that a tragedy of this magnitude is incomprehensible in our times and i hope that the specific causes of this accident can be thoroughly understood, so that no family will have to live through a similar tragedy again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the challenges we face do not allow for passivity or a defensive approach, but we must also recognize that the invisible hand of the market will not be enough to respond either. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. europe must strive to remain a major industrial power and must not be satisfied with the development of the services sector alone, the future of which is often closely linked to the existence of a solid industrial base. it is therefore necessary that the member states and regions do not wait for the critical moments to arrive, with their irreversible consequences for the industry, before taking action. we are not talking about a policy of subsidies to large industrial dinosaurs; that model was a bottomless pit for public resources and a barrier to the creation of new opportunities to create stable and future-oriented jobs. the european manufacturing industry is facing several major challenges at the same time, such as enlargement, globalisation or off-shoring. but the greatest challenges are certainly coming from outside the union, especially those arising from globalisation and more specifically from competition from emerging asian countries. these challenges require a change of mindset and the seizure of new opportunities. the current industrial structure of the european union economy as a whole does not put us in the best position to deal with the current process of globalisation. the eu's trade is still concentrated in medium and high-tech sectors and low- or intermediate-skilled personnel, exposing the union to competition from producers in emerging economies. we must find our competitive advantage in knowledge and quality, not in low prices. but this often involves sectoral adjustments with social consequences. although the ultimate responsibility lies with the private sector, these consequences must be addressed through specific resources, such as the european globalisation adjustment fund. this communication recognises that the context and specific characteristics of individual sectors require in each case an adapted use of the various industrial policy instruments. the commission also proposes seven new cross-sectoral policy initiatives of major importance: increased protection of intellectual property rights and anti-counterfeiting, the creation of a high level group on competitiveness, energy and the environment and support for fair and reciprocal access of our products to new markets. this new policy must necessarily be complementary to the work done in the member states and, in this connection, we have noted that it will be necessary to study the problems of the new member states in depth. the new approach should seek consensus by involving key actors, social partners and states, in the policy decision-making process at an early stage. the new industrial policy must encourage investment in the skills and equipment of people so that they can adapt to change and take advantage of the new opportunities it offers. it is precisely training and flexibility that are the most important resource and competence parameter of the union. we are talking about competition based on r & d, innovation, quality and design, infrastructure, new ways of organising production and investment in advanced sectors. the urgency of these measures should be noted, as competitors of the european industry are moving rapidly in this direction. finally, i would like to stress the need to increase the transfer of knowledge and the application of research results to new products and processes. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
mr president, in fact, today, in all the debates on reports that have taken place, we are discussing the same thing. firstly, on the restructuring and relocation of industry and the impact of funds to remedy that situation; secondly, on innovation; and now, again, on the strengthening of manufacturing industry in the european union. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that european industry is currently facing a process of economic globalisation which is making the conditions of competition increasingly harsh. in my view, there is no doubt that the greater the competition, the better the final prices for citizens. and yet, jobs in some european industrial sectors, especially in smes, are threatened by structural problems that need to be addressed. the european commission's communication is an important step towards the lisbon strategy reaching out to the manufacturing sector. europe has a reasonable degree of external openness, but community exports are mainly from medium-technology sectors, unlike those of north america or japan, where high technology predominates. on the other hand, our specialization rates differentiate us from our main competitors and make us vulnerable in a number of sectors. we have recently seen how textiles, footwear, furniture, construction and ceramics, for example, were in such a disadvantaged position. political and inter-sectoral initiatives are certainly needed to improve conditions in this sector in the areas of research, training, innovation, patents, access to third markets, the fight against unfair competition when it occurs and reciprocity in external trade. i thank the rapporteur and the other colleagues very much for the new ideas they have brought to this document.
(pse). - mr president, the passion for football, which has become global and european this evening, gives me the opportunity to carry out an act of pure european militancy also within the transport sector. i am speaking as a member of parliament for a member state, spain, which unfortunately lost the navigability of its rivers a long time ago and is suffering from a drought which is becoming structural, making it increasingly difficult to restore that navigability. i therefore speak out of the healthiest european envy for those countries which do have navigable waterways, both for passengers and for goods. as a german spouse, i still vividly remember the admiration and impression i had when i met the rhine a few years ago, because until then i had heard about the river motorways, i had even worked on them, but i did not really know what they were. it was the impression of seeing the rhine with such regulated, organized, slow and at the same time efficient traffic that taught me what we were talking about and how europe was taking over these important routes. i am therefore pleased as a european that this debate is finally coming to a successful conclusion, thanks to mrs sommer and also to my colleague ulrich stockmann. this will make it possible to harmonize navigability on rivers, both in terms of social safety and environmental standards, including a proposal for non-regression in those countries where such a danger exists. i can only hope that my city, which will be hosting the international exhibition in 2008 on the subject of water and sustainable development, will be able to carry out projects to restore the navigability of the ebro river, among other rivers, as a means of collective passenger transport and, of course, to facilitate its use for sport and tourism. that is why i am glad that the safety and social standards are also being applied. let me dream that perhaps in the not too distant future, goods crossing the pyrenees from spain to france through a central tunnel will then go through the canal du midi and the french canal network and finally to the rhine, whose optimal and wise regulation we have today made into european law.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague and rapporteur, mr stockmann, for the generosity he has shown in recognising the value of brian simpson's early work. i would like to pay him a sincere tribute tonight for having brought him to the right 'airport' with a tenacity and flexibility worthy of the excellent success we all want. at the beginning of this debate, which i had with brian in another capacity, i still remember how we received a text to harmonize the technical rules and administrative procedures for civil aviation, that is, to move from jar-ops to eu-ops, and to our surprise we noticed that it was a text in which a black hole appeared: there was no subpart q, precisely concerning the limitations on flight time and activity and rest requirements. and so began one of those fascinating stories of european construction which, if one day i could find a good storyteller or a good filmmaker, would surely serve to rekindle the europeanist passion in our citizens. there was a text in a drawer of the commission that was growing in the dark, that was getting better, but we didn't really know what was in it. and there was a group of european pilots and cabin crew who wanted this text to finally see the light of day and some companies who did not think it was a priority, pressured by increasing competition, an exploitation of the sector that gave rise to new competitors and that made any proposal for limitations, even in the name of safety, a serious burden. and they had the support of their member states. the solution seemed difficult, but we have almost succeeded, thanks to the passionate and joint work of all, to the will of the european parliament to adopt a comprehensive text, with essential aspects of safety, which has as its depositaries people, pilots and cabin crew, with training requirements, professional recognition, strict respect for flight time and rest, which must be ordered and harmonized to ensure fully, and without possible retreat, safety in an exponentially growing and fully open and competitive sector. that is why we welcome this prior commitment tonight, which will eventually become a first step towards consolidating the necessary confidence of european citizens in the civil aviation sector. it is also a mandate of responsibility for the european aviation safety agency, from which we expect a prompt implementation of all the recommendations of this european parliament.
i am glad that after more than a year and a half of debate in parliament, mr seppänen's report has finally been voted on in the house. in committee we have found a large majority of consensus in drawing up the amendments needed to improve the commission's proposal, which we believe the council is prepared to accept. i would like to highlight in particular the new system for the notification and authorisation of shipments of radioactive waste and spent fuel, which in my view maximises the usefulness of the automatic acceptance procedure, which was already highlighted by the european economic and social committee as an essential element for the proper functioning of the internal market. the amendments voted in committee are also fully in line with the initial objective of the proposal, which is to bring the legislation in force into line with the joint convention of the international atomic energy agency. in this connection, parliament has insisted on the faithful reproduction of the definitions of the convention and the scope of the directive. as regards the amendments tabled by mrs harms, i would like to make a couple of comments: firstly, that the convention makes very clear the conditions under which member states are allowed to export radioactive waste and spent fuel, and secondly, her insistence that information on shipments of these substances be made public runs counter to much of her argument in committee when she warned of the danger of these falling into unreliable hands. i'm sure mrs. harms understands the risk that would be involved if this sensitive information were made available to the world. mr president, i would like to thank mr seppänen for his excellent work and all the alternative rapporteurs for their excellent work and cooperation throughout the process and to reiterate my support for the amendments adopted in committee. i hope the house will be aware that what is being voted on tomorrow is not a question of 'nuclear yes' or 'nuclear no', but a proposal to make the transport of these substances safer.
the agenda now includes the council statement on the presentation of the finnish presidency's programme. we welcome the prime minister of finland and his secretary of state for european affairs, as well as the president of the commission. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr vanhanen, for his excellent report.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech i shall deal with three points in your speech and i shall add a challenge. first of all, i would like to congratulate the finnish government on having fulfilled its promise to the presidency by ratifying the constitution, which has already been supported by the majority of the european states and peoples. that is a fact which must be emphasized, because we all agree that it is necessary, not only to enlarge, but to function. secondly, i would like to thank you, on the subject of security and the fight against terrorism, for the support you, like other members of the european council, have given to the beginning of the process of overcoming violence and achieving peace in my country, spain. thirdly, i would also like to stress that the process of creating a community immigration policy - and you have mentioned the case of the canary islands - began in tampere and we have to speed it up in a serious way. and finally, mr president-in-office of the council, i had the opportunity to meet mrs lehtomäki, minister for foreign trade and development, last week in geneva, at the doha development round negotiations. this is a very important challenge and it must be tackled during the finnish presidency. i think that this should be included prominently in the agenda, to ensure our future and to assume our responsibilities.
mr president, i agree, mr prime minister, with the europe of results. for many, war is far away and they take peace for granted. the european union must therefore win the confidence of its citizens by delivering tangible results in the face of today's problems. i certainly hope that your presidency will achieve the greatest successes, the best results. the european union must be used to tackle transnational threats such as terrorism and organised crime and to reassure citizens about the fears that globalisation arouses in them. it should also help to manage migration flows appropriately, including effectively combating illegal immigration. it is a matter of dramatic actuality in my country - you have mentioned the case of the canary islands - and in others in southern europe. and it causes much suffering and even loss of human life. i therefore hope that this semester priority will be given to this problem and not just to russia and energy. i think it is very appropriate that finland now takes over the presidency and makes progress on a european immigration policy. the tampere european council was a historic milestone in the construction of the area of freedom, security and justice. mr president, the conclusions of the seville and thessaloniki european councils already established that the question of migration flows should become a major issue in the european union's relations with third countries. this seems to me to be a basic element in the line to be followed. the union must demand that countries of origin and transit cooperate firmly to combat the tragedy of illegal immigration and to manage these flows in an orderly manner. it must ask them - and help them to get - better border controls and surveillance, more effective fight against mafias and readmission agreements. there are also things to be done in our own countries, such as refraining from unilateral measures of regularization and improving the material and human resources at our external borders. funds are also needed, and i regret that of every 100 euros budgeted in the financial perspective only 50 cents are allocated to immigration matters. finally, i would like to mention briefly another priority of your presidency: enlargement. this semester will be the final stretch of romania and bulgaria's efforts to join the union on 1 january 2007. it is the common objective that we all share and i hope that the report that the commission will present at the beginning of the autumn will confirm this date.
president of the council. mr. president, i was politically silent about football. but it is our task - the council's, parliament's and the commission's - to ensure that in sectors other than football, the four best in the world are european, preferably twenty-five, and that is our joint responsibility. i sign a lot of reviews and opinions about both my speech and my presentation style. i may be a little bureaucratic and may be making lists, but i'm not going to change my style. i know that i can't handle the rhetoric with nearly all of you, and i don't even try. but even this discussion showed that many of these european issues involve passions that may require some coolness to coordinate. it may be that it works better than strong rhetoric. (applause) i would like to thank the i got a lot of really good advice and guidance here. i cannot comment on all your speeches at this time. i would like to start with mr titley's speech, however, because he is our godfather of sorts. he was the first member of the european parliament whom i briefly met when we were both members of the finnish parliament and of a european parliament committee. he gave me some good advice: action, action, action. i hope that this will also be a good sign of finland's presidency. poettering was right to describe the fact that the presidencies form a six-month chain. it is therefore natural that the same things that you have heard many times will also appear in the programme of the finnish presidency. i believe one of you complained about this. this chain is what we need. you will sit in the european parliament for five years. the commission is serving a five-year term. you're going to have a natural longevity. the council must ensure that the presidencies cooperate with each other in order to ensure continuity. it's a lot of money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i agree with mr schultz's strong view that the union needs the instruments with which to respond to all the challenges that are important to us. in his view, there is no contradiction whatsoever between myself and commission president barroso on the need for enlargement and a new agreement. we have the mechanisms for enlargement, but everyone knows that in the short term, we also need a new agreement. i would like to thank mr schultz and mr watson for their support and also for the strong and healthy pressure that they put on us to make progress on the third pillar of decision-making. cohn-bendit criticized the fact that i didn't bring up legal immigration. it's a strong part of our program, and i mentioned it. i mentioned it in connection with the factors for european success. we also need legal immigration for the sake of europe's success. it is one way of ensuring that europe will also be able to compete in the global arena in the future. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. we respect them, but we also respect finland's right to express its own opinion on the negotiated agreement, on the broad compromise that was reached in due course. (applause) i would like to thank the we are also entitled to express our own views on this, and we do so on the basis of our own constitution and the procedure for its consideration and ratification. crowley specifically mentioned new sources of energy, and i can fully agree with what he said in his speech. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's asylum policy is not disrupted. it's not a problem. on the contrary, we need a common policy on asylum. that is what europe needs, as well as many other things which are essential in the field of internal affairs and justice. (applause) i would like to thank the it is precisely in these areas that we need an area of freedom and justice, common standards, common rules and action in this direction. we need both cooperation between states and a clear mandate for the european union. paasilinna raised a very sensitive question as to whether energy policy is a weapon for some in the world. that question comes up very often. our answer is that energy policy must not be used as a weapon in world politics. on the contrary, the eu's policy should be that energy policy is a normal part of business. it must be based on business, and it must include clear reciprocity and equal rights. it must be based on long-term, reliable contracts and market prices. this is how we can benefit from each other. in particular, the eu-russia energy policy is part of the strategic partnership. russia needs european technology and our payments, and we need russian energy. through this cooperation, we can improve both the eu's and russia's performance in the world. the iceberg was particularly concerned with transparency, and i can fully agree with what he said when he said that the most important thing is the publicity of documents. we are waiting for the commission to submit a discussion paper on the revision of the community regulation on transparency, including the publication of documents, and we will also submit it to the council during our presidency. the commission is also taking into account all the points made in the debate on climate change, including those made by mr hassi. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. this is also an essential part of this better regulation policy. the commission, the council and parliament, all those involved in the legislative process, have a responsibility in this. we must base our legislative work on impact assessments. as i said in my speech, they relate to both the impact on our competitiveness and the environmental and social impact. this should be part of the normal legislative process. swoboda's speech on turkey was a wise one. as regards the negotiations with turkey, i fully support what commission president barroso emphasized in his own speech. pflüger described finland as neutral. i must correct him on the point that finland is a member of the eu. we were once a politically neutral country under the iron curtain. we are now members of the union, part of this community of values, with a common policy and also a common foreign policy. (applause) i would like to thank the he criticised the fact that we were taking the union on a military adventure and cited as an example the operation we had launched in the democratic republic of congo. it's about securing a democratic election. that is precisely the task in which the union must play its part. it's a strong endorsement of the very values that we exist for. (applause) i would like to thank the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy the benefits of the single market. this is a demanding task as we make reforms. in responding to the challenge of globalisation, we must be able to reform in a way that is also at the forefront of the world in terms of the economy and employment, but in a way that people also trust. in this respect, the social partners have a particularly important role to play. we are going to tell you something at that summit about the consensus model that finland has been able to use to achieve some kind of achievement. finally, mr estrella, on the question of equality: we are currently debating the regulation establishing the equality institute. i hope that's the solution. we will also be drawing attention to trafficking in women and violence against women, among other issues, during our presidency. in fact, buzek highlighted the most important priority of the finnish presidency: innovation policy. the seventh framework programme is an important part of that. the eit is an important initiative, and we need to find a suitable format for it. in general, during this six-month period, you will hear the word innovation policy over and over again. that is what we want to instill in the thinking of the union. and if there is one thing i hope the finnish presidency will be remembered for, it is that we were able to talk about innovation policy and its importance. in fact, mr buzek has just described in a very illustrative way what parts of innovation policy are involved. the second point is mr brok's speech on the importance of the baltic sea region: it is now a common sea. i was pleased to note your speech, and we are going to focus on the baltic sea issue. the fact that we are making progress in the northern dimension will also provide the means to improve the situation in the baltic sea. (applause) i would like to thank the i can tell mr högmark from sweden that we were in the same country with sweden for 700 years and that a few years later we are celebrating our separation. now, for the last 11 years, we have been part of the same community within the union again and our cooperation is very close. i would like to end my reply with a comment on the speeches by mr monti on the situation in the canary islands. i hope that there is some symbolism in the fact that finland, as the northernmost country in the union, has also wanted to send border guards and a surveillance aircraft to the canary islands to help and show solidarity and to show that the problems we have in different parts of europe, including illegal immigration, are common. we must show solidarity within the union. these are common things. i would like the finnish presidency to act in this spirit in the union for the next six months. i thank you, mr president, for the opportunity to speak in this house and i hope that the next six months will be as fruitful as possible for cooperation with parliament, its committees and political groups. (applause) i would like to thank the
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think the main points have already been made. but let me make one or two points, particularly by referring to some of the issues raised in the debate. firstly, we are very much in favour of the so-called europe of results approach. but let us be clear: the europe of results is not an alternative to the europe of values, on the contrary, it is the way to strengthen this membership. it is a matter of following two paths at the same time that can reinforce each other. our vision of a europe with concrete projects is based precisely on the idea that we must strengthen the conditions for a europe which has a dimension of social cohesion and justice, a europe which has a political vision, a europe which is ready to use its weight, to exert its influence and to assert its values in the world. that is why we think it is important to go down both paths at the same time. in reply to the question i was asked about the link between enlargement and constitutional reform, i have said it many times: nice is not enough. we need, in an enlarged europe - and we are already an enlarged europe - a reform of the institutions to make them more efficient, more democratic, but also to strengthen the coherence of europe's action in the world. moreover, the constitutional treaty that has been negotiated between the member states has already been negotiated for the europe of twenty-five, reinforcing the idea that a europe of twenty-seven or more will need institutional reform. that is indeed the commission's position. as regards the concrete priorities of this presidency, i would like to stress what has emerged clearly from the debate: the importance attached to innovation. we believe that the lahti summit can be a great moment for europe if indeed the heads of state and government agree now to produce concrete results in the framework of the innovation agenda. as many of you have pointed out here today, europe has excellent universities and excellent research centres, but it lacks the capacity to translate all this activity into more concrete results for the economy and for the competitiveness of our continent. we must therefore improve the link between knowledge, science and research on the one hand and practical results on the other. innovation is the key to this. finland, with its experience and specific vocation, can help us to achieve these concrete results. another area in which our action will be judged at the end of these six months is justice, security and freedom. this debate has clearly shown a broad support for the idea that we must do more at community level too. there is of course an intergovernmental dimension, more can be done in terms of intergovernmental cooperation, but we need a community dimension in certain areas, for example the management of immigration, legal or illegal. the problems facing some of our member states today, spain for example, are not just their own problems, they are problems facing the whole of europe. it is clear that in these circumstances we cannot separate legal immigration from illegal immigration and that we need a european approach in this area. i believe that in this area we will all be judged at the end of this semester, the finnish presidency, we member states, on our willingness to produce, on the basis of the existing treaties, more results in the area of justice and security, including, of course, immigration. another issue which is a high priority for this parliament, and which is also a priority for the finnish presidency, is energy. we must be clear on this, particularly in relation to relations with russia. firstly, we are in favour of a constructive partnership with russia in the field of energy, but what we are proposing - and this was clearly stated in the strategy paper that the commission produced - is not just to develop good relations with russia, it is diversification. the solution to europe's energy problem is diversification: diversification of the country of origin, of the country of supply, diversification of the countries of transit and also diversification of energy sources, in particular by increasing investment in renewable energies. so the solution for energy is diversification and not to lock ourselves into a relationship with one partner, however important that partner may be. secondly, let us be clear about relations with russia. in the negotiating mandate for our relations with that country which we have presented to the council, the first point that appears is not energy, it is not even trade, no, the first point concerns human rights, respect for democracy, respect for the principles of the rule of law. this is the condition for developing a special partnership with a country with which we of course want to develop our relations, a country which also wants to develop its relations with us. a final point, if i may, on the continuity of which prime minister vanhanen has spoken very well. it is true that we, the european parliament and the commission, have a five-year mandate and that the various presidencies each have a specific vocation, but there is sometimes a problem of continuity over time, which was also identified during the negotiations on the constitutional treaty. i believe that we are beginning to make progress on this point, as the austrian presidency has shown. the presidencies are changing and it is very positive that the constitutional question of the granting of a mandate has been clearly raised. in this respect, i support the pragmatic approach determined by results, but also the constructive approach chosen by the finnish presidency. ladies and gentlemen, when we talked about europe of results, we did not know that, so quickly, with football, we were going to show europe's ability to be the best in terms of results. some of you have been tempted to bring up the world cup to show that we can be proud of our achievements in this area too. but i believe, as you have pointed out, that in terms of the economy, competitiveness, our model based on competitiveness, and also our values, we can and we must show more results. i am sure that during the finnish presidency we will be able to do so. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 142) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr claudio fava, and the secretariat team who have supported him in this magnificent task. contrary to what may appear and may be deduced from the words of the council representative in her brief speech, we are not looking at washington here, we are looking at the european capitals. we look to the council in brussels, hoping that it will make a commitment to the truth that has not yet come, to explain to us the why and the how of what we now know. because, just as archaeologists who progressively unearth small pieces with small excavations and then put all that information together are able to draw up a map of a city that was hidden and that no one knew exactly where it was, this commission, with the invaluable support of other people, ngos, in collaboration with the council of europe, etc., has managed to draw up that map, to discover and bring to light that hidden city, which is a plan built for the systematic violation of the fundamental rights of citizens under the theoretical excuse of protecting our own fundamental rights: we protect our rights and our security by violating the rights of others. that's the scheme we've been working with. this is something that would hardly have happened without the active support or the conscious passivity of the member states of the european union. that is our conclusion. that is our moral conviction, which no one, with or without votes, can deprive us of. it is a great puzzle in which it is not enough for this or that state to say that there was no crime on its territory, if, for example, it turns out that the role assigned to that state in this overall plan was to provide logistical support for the planes so that the actors of this great drama would rest sooner or later. we are therefore still waiting for coherent explanations from the council and the member states in order to know the truth and to protect respect for the essential values of the european union, for which we are all supposed to be fighting.
mr president, i also join in congratulating and praising the rapporteur, mr fava, and i reiterate our full support for the main thrust of the report he has presented. in the hearings we have held over the past few months it has become clear that we cannot continue to talk about alleged practices, but that we must talk, analyse and ask for responsibility for concrete facts, as other colleagues have also said. as the report emphasizes, it is beyond belief that the governments did not know what was going on, and i would therefore like to reiterate my surprise at the repeated insistence of some governments - including my own - in denying facts which the cia officials themselves have demonstrated and acknowledged. the arrest made in italy today is just the tip of the iceberg, and we hope the rest will soon follow. it is not a question of whether these practices have occurred, but of who in europe knew about them, and even collaborated in them, and also of who, should they have known, shied away from responsibility. the conclusion of the report is clear: the work we are doing is necessary and must continue. it is true that we are not investigators or prosecutors; we have neither the power nor the means to carry out this action or these investigations, but we can ask the relevant questions and put the important questions on the table. it is precisely in order to do this that research must continue and that is why i would urge you to support this report.
mr president, mr fava, like mr dick marty in the council of europe, has the courage to coordinate an inquiry with a very clear objective: to establish the truth. above all other logic, whether of state or government, it is a question of establishing the truth. at this stage of the investigation, it is clear that no one can claim that european governments did not have information regarding this grand, comprehensive plan of the american intelligence services. i call on all the governments of the european union - all of them - at this stage of the investigation to intensify their cooperation with the investigation being coordinated by mr fava. in this sense, i do not understand how the intelligence services of my country - spain - have not yet appeared in this committee. i believe that in the second phase of the investigation it is imperative that the director of spain's intelligence services appear to give all the information he has, as he has done in the spanish congress of deputies. i believe that we must support, sustain and encourage this inquiry effectively, so that it continues to the end, until the truth is fully established.
mr president, i would like to join mr fava in his report, which i hope will be supported tomorrow to continue his inquiry. what has happened with the abductions of people on so-called 'cia flights' is terrible and intolerable for europe and for this parliament. thanks to the tenacity and rigor of the american press, we know that at least 480 people are being held in the sinister prison at guantanamo, without any judicial guarantees. it is a moral and legal monstrosity. some of these prisoners have been illegally detained in europe; others have been kidnapped and released and have testified before us here. there is no doubt that the usual practice of aberrant performances. this generation cannot and must not tolerate this situation, as did other ancestors who did not face the existence of death camps. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are governments, the spanish and german governments, for example, which have offered to cooperate with the committee chaired by mr coelho, and we should be grateful for that.
president of the council. mr president, as was pointed out earlier this afternoon in the debate on the cia prison flights, the activities and information of the intelligence services are in themselves within the competence of the member states, but it is certainly useful that in a situation like this of kidnapping, very smooth and thorough cooperation can be established to find solutions and to clarify the background to the problems raised by the questioner.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has adopted and will continue to adopt a comprehensive strategy and approach to migration, both in its internal policy and in its relations and dialogue with third countries. the strategy and approach shall cover all aspects and dimensions of migration, such as legal migration, preventing and combating illegal migration, trafficking in human beings and smuggling of persons. the european union naturally acts, as always, within the limits of the powers conferred on it by the treaty. as regards the action taken by the union in response to the recent events in the canary islands, i would ask the honourable member to examine the replies to the council's oral questions h-0440, h-0455, h-0460, h-0473 and h-0478/2006. this number of questions and answers shows that this is a major issue which must be discussed and action taken on.
thank you very much, madam president-in-office, for your reply. the problem we have with immigration policy is the lack of economic means. it seems that we will only have some five million euros this year and that there will be no more resources until next year, when the new financial perspective is adopted. how can immigration policy be linked to the recently adopted financial perspective for the period 2007-2013?
president of the council. mr president, the purpose of this common consolidated corporate tax base initiative is therefore to create a corporate tax base that is simple. the initiative does not address the level of the tax rate but the tax base. we're in the middle of some technical work. the finnish presidency is not to discuss this matter in the council, but to hear about the progress of the technical work.
madam president-in-office of the council, in the basque country we have our own tax system, historically separate and distinct from the spanish one, that is to say, in the spanish state there are two tax systems. the commission does not seem to understand this and wants to change it. would the council agree if a uniform tax system were to be imposed on the member states without their consent, without their agreement?
mr president, i speak on behalf of the socialist group to put the question put by mr schulz and mr roure on behalf of the socialist group. this question is in addition to the reports drawn up by mr gaubert and mr lambrinidis on immigration issues. i would point out that these two reports make an important contribution to the problem of immigration. the fundamental concern is that there should be a comprehensive immigration policy. we have only fragments of policies so far, and let us hope that the resolutions of the last brussels summit will enable us to make such a comprehensive policy. but comprehensive immigration policy has to start with the countries of origin. i mean, what are we doing in the european union to prevent immigration from being, in many of these countries, the only source of income for their inhabitants? this is the first thing we have to consider. secondly, on the basis that the problems of developing countries cannot be solved in the short term, what measures are we taking to protect our external borders, including, of course, a legal immigration policy - which has been included in the hague programme since december 2005 - so that those citizens who want to come to work in our union, if there are jobs available, can do so legally? thirdly, it must be remembered - as has just been said in previous reports - that at present, in the absence of a union policy on immigration, each country has to bear the costs and the efforts of that policy. at the moment there are a number of border countries, not only in southern europe but also in central europe, which are bearing an excessive burden in terms of the humanitarian attention to be given to these illegal immigrants. so far, the means at our disposal have been minimal. it seems that we have only about 5 700 000 euro available for this year. we hope that with the adoption of the financial perspective, as from 1 january 2007, we will have additional resources. we must also bear in mind that these immigrants are not extraterrestrial beings, not robots, not machines, but people who have to live in society, who have family and emotional needs that must be met. and above all, what europe cannot allow is that there are two kinds of citizens within it: those who - as a section of the french far right has said - are of souche, that is, of european origin, and those who are not, because that, as we have seen recently, is the source of a number of social problems which are very difficult to solve. we must integrate immigrants into our societies. they cannot be kept out of the mainstream of our society. an immigrant, the children of immigrants and the grandchildren of immigrants have the right to live as persons on an equal footing with other citizens of the union. it is also important to remember that the flow of immigration does not have to be completely irreversible. the heart of every immigrant harbors the desire to return to his country of origin. what are we doing to ensure that immigrants have the possibility of maintaining a link with their country of origin, that they can return to their country of origin without having to resort to these horrible illegal immigration procedures, that their stay outside their country of origin is regarded as nothing more than a transitional stage, so that when they return they can enrich the society of their country of origin? it is something that in some countries of the european union, such as spain, italy, portugal and greece, was done at a time when staying abroad was simply a procedure to return to one's country of origin and strengthen its economy. i hope that commissioner frattini will help us in this respect - we have a great task ahead of us - and that the institutions of the union, the commission, the council and parliament, will be able to develop this necessary immigration policy, which is so essential at this time.
mr president, mr frattini, i congratulate you, but only you. let us look at some of the aspects identified. the european union is aware of the problem and is alarmed by every visible crisis: lampedusa, ceuta, melilla, malta and the canary islands. but it does not have the common policies needed to prevent or manage migration flows properly, neither legal nor, much less, illegal. the countries of the south add drama to the pressure and the violation of the union's borders. the dead are so many that they cannot be quantified with precision. i have said a thousand times that this great question has five essential aspects which are interrelated: legal immigration, illegal immigration, asylum, integration and subsidiary protection. this includes the causes, both remote and immediate: origin and transit, structural poverty and the irresponsible calls which are translated into all the poor languages with the dangerous phrase 'at the end, sooner or later, paper for all'. and in the meantime, how do we witness this spectacle of incompetence and incapacity? i'll give you two examples; i'll tell you what's going to happen this weekend. tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in brussels the council at technical level will say that it has begun to discuss the breakdown by country of the three new integration funds: border control, illegal repatriation and integration. but what's the matter? meanwhile, spain, greece and the netherlands are fighting over the criteria for allocation: migratory pressure, border kilometres or number of air entries. we are not discussing funds, we are discussing little funds. this morning, mr millán mon said that in the financial perspective, only 50 cents out of every 100 euros is allocated to immigration. that's the big tip. that is the great truth. another negative example, mr president, is that the council - which i strongly criticise - will also be responding to this by adopting a comprehensive approach to immigration the day after tomorrow. that is all the council will be proposing: a global approach. finally, mr frattini, it is very important to involve the countries of origin and the countries of transit, it is very important that mr solana goes to those countries of origin and those countries of transit. frontex is not the answer. frontex is a newborn baby. frontex will not do anything without the carabinieri or the civil guard. so no complacency and all the common demand in the face of this very serious problem.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, i would like to thank mrs carlotti for the excellent cooperation we have maintained in negotiating a number of amendments which will allow the european people's party group to support this report. however, we have been talking about this issue for a long time - the commissioner has reminded us today of the many times we have dealt with it - and yet, so far, progress has been rather meagre. it is a clear example of the paralysis that is afflicting us and defines the moment that european policy is going through in relation to one of our most serious problems. the council has not been able to reach a common position, nor does it appear that it will, as each member state adopts unilateral, often contradictory measures and then asks the council for help, as if the council were a stranger to it. the commission says that it is doing what it can, but that this is a matter for the member states and that it is absolutely right. in addition, it lacks a sufficient operational budget at the moment; we are working on the extension of a budget which expired almost a year ago. meanwhile, thousands of irregular migrants are crossing our borders, and in some countries this happens on a daily basis. there is no doubt that we can do a lot, as mrs carlotti's report shows. the remittances from immigrants triple - not double, as has been said - the total volume of official development assistance worldwide, and yet these investments do not become an economically productive injection into the countries of origin. article 13 of the cotonou agreement is applied little, if at all, in most cases. article 42 of the treaty on european union would allow for measures to be taken in the fight against trafficking in human beings; after three years, the commission also told us in vienna a fortnight ago that it is assessing the matter and that it will make some proposals in the future. i could go on with more examples, but these are enough. i think it is time to act and to put declarations of intent to a later date and to less serious matters.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague, mrs carlotti, on the work she has done, particularly because i believe that she has brought development policy to the centre of foreign policy, also when we are dealing with the phenomenon of migration. the future is certainly not so much about curbing migration as it is about regulating it, so that human movements today, as they have always been, benefit countries of origin, transit and destination. states know that their objectives and interests can be better achieved if there is collaboration and if they coordinate their actions. the euro-african summit on migration will take place in rabat next week. development cooperation is a priority on their agenda. we ask that this opportunity be used to establish concrete measures for the development of african countries and we call on the union to commit itself decisively to democracy, peace and security in the countries of origin of migration, breaking the logic of realpolitik. perhaps what we should do is to promote education, which always brings freedom and development. we must improve and extend the union's presence at political and institutional level. but the right to development is comprehensive and means economic and cultural exchange, conflict management, the fight against terrorism, environmental protection and policies to promote equality between men and women. migration certainly brings benefits, but the benefits of international migration, not only for migrants but also for the societies that receive them, will only be possible if we maintain respect for the rights of workers, which are the universal guarantee against exploitation. the rights of all workers, regular and non-regular, must be protected. the measures we are considering must absolutely respect the rights of those who approach our borders, including the right to asylum. in this respect, the european union should ensure that asylum seekers are not prevented from obtaining the international protection they need. as we all know, mr president, migration, movements, are unstoppable. let us ensure that the rights of migrants are respected.
author. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the outcome of the wto ministerial meeting held in geneva from 29 june to 1 july is a clear disappointment. we went to geneva the week before to hold the steering committee meeting of the wto parliamentary assembly which we have set up with the interparliamentary union. the director-general, mr lamy, told us that it was the moment of truth and we have found that the result is, as he himself has said, that we are in crisis. the chinese -- and i think it applies to the current situation in the wto -- have a symbol to designate the idea of crisis: the top is "death threat" and the bottom is "opportunity". i think we are in a situation where what is at stake is the continuation of the wto as a multilateral platform to consolidate world trade, the process of globalisation, so that we do not find that the wto is failing and we go back to bilateral approaches, which may be interesting in a multilateral framework, but which, as an alternative, would be absolutely destructive in the long term. we are in this situation and, moreover, time is running out in connection with the authorization given by the united states congress to the president of this country to negotiate, what is known as the trade promotion authority. i have to say that i think these meetings are going to be negotiated. not the best method the newly appointed mrs schwab, the us trade representative, chose: to meet on capitol hill and take a picture before going out with 56 senators and representatives of the american farm bureau federation, which is the most important agricultural lobby. that may be valid for going to play the world cup but it's not the best method for going to a negotiation of this kind. i think we need to remind our colleagues, the congressmen of the united states. the fact is that we are in this situation and the director-general, mr lamy, has been given a mandate to try to find concrete arrangements in relation to the agreements reached in hong kong. in this connection, i understand that mr lamy is being asked to find a way out of the situation by means of travelling diplomacy - not a fact-finding mission - by means of what we in the institutions of the european union call the confessional system, that is, by trying to discuss, through bilateral meetings with the interlocutors, the things that nobody dares to raise at a table, whether in the green room or at the general meeting. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this sense, i think we must continue to support this process. from the point of view of parliament, as the commissioner, mr mandelson, knows, we are following the process very closely: a delegation from parliament went to geneva, after having done so the week before the assembly. i have to say that we have had an interview with the outgoing and incoming presidency of the council, although it is not what we had in cancún, which was talking to commission 133, and that our cooperation with the commission has been very positive, both with commissioner mandelson and with commissioner fischer boel. not only have they given us important information, but we have also been able to collaborate together, building bridges and holding interviews. i must say that even in the council building we were offered excellent coffee. it is now up to the commissioner to explain why progress has not been made, particularly in agriculture and nama, the other products, and also to what extent we can make progress in services. i also think it would be useful for the commissioner to explain to us how he has kept within his mandate, because that is one of the criticisms that have been made of him and that i assume will be made of him. i think you have done well, but in any case, madam president, these are the questions i am asking on behalf of the european parliament.
mr president, on behalf of the rapporteur, mrs beer – who cannot be here at this moment, for which i pass on her apologies – i would like to give a few words of explanation before the vote on her report. mrs beer asked me to pass on her thanks to the various political group coordinators and to the council and commission for their good cooperation in the fruitful compromise negotiations. today we will vote on a first reading compromise agreement. however, there are five important agreements that were reached during the negotiations which are not reflected in the amendments in front of you, but which nevertheless form an integral part of the compromise achieved. they have been documented in a letter by commissioner ferrero-waldner. amendments 108 to 112 take account of various documents concerning the following issues. firstly, the commission reacted to parliament’s demand for enhanced involvement in the policy level, which is closer to the implementation phase. commissioner ferrero-waldner gave formal assurance that the commission would enter into regular dialogue with parliament on the content of the draft country, regional and thematic strategy papers and guarantee to take due account of the position of parliament when implementing the strategies proposed, the ‘declaration on democratic scrutiny’. secondly, concerning exceptional assistance measures, the commission gave the guarantee to treat the european parliament at the same level as the council, which means informing parliament in a timely manner of exceptional assistance measures which it has adopted. thirdly, the commission gave its word that anti-terrorism measures will be based on full respect for human rights and humanitarian law and that the commission engages to ensure compliance with these principles through careful monitoring. fourthly, as a result of the demand by parliament and civil society for better coordination of the eu’s peacebuilding capacities, the commission agreed to establish a peacebuilding partnership. the commission’s written explanation also reflects the long-standing demand by parliament to advance the idea of a european civil peace corps. lastly, in view of the severe financial cuts that the stability instrument underwent in the course of negotiations for the new financial perspective, commission ferrero-waldner confirmed in writing the commission’s engagement to secure additional resources if needed, via various budgetary options, including the emergency aid reserve and the flexibility instrument. our legal service has asked us to state that there are still a small number of purely linguistic and technical variations between the texts adopted by the council and the text recommended for adoption today. this is a purely technical issue linked to the fact that, in a first reading agreement, the normal process of legal revision and verification can only take place after the vote. however, any variations should take full account of the intention of the house.
author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on international trade of the european parliament, noting what the commissioner has just said about the excellent climate of cooperation and joint work we have between parliament and the commission, i would like to express my regret in this case for a small incident relating to the formal transmission of this proposal to parliament for information, which has prevented us from reacting in a timely manner, although we are still in time. i know that this proposal was referred to in commission documents 133, which were, as usual, forwarded by the commission secretariat to the international trade committee. i would point out, however, that for practical reasons as well as for reasons of principle, informal transmission does not replace formal notification to parliament for information. in any case, commissioner, i want to make it clear that we understand that the commission has not acted intentionally, and therefore we can get down to the substance of the matter, which is very important for europeans. first of all, on the substance of the matter, i would like to say that i appreciate and appreciate your proposal to establish a compulsory country of origin marking system in the european community. i think this initiative is going in the right direction. in short, the proposed system of origin labelling will enable european consumers to know exactly which country of origin the products they buy come from. it is in line with what we have already approved, for example the traceability of agricultural products. the european commission rightly considers consumer rights to be an important, i would even say constitutional, priority. however, there is little point in having rights when the information needed to give effect to them is not available. there is no such thing as free choice if consumers are not in a position to exercise it properly. to have confidence, consumers need to be satisfied with their level of information and protection. in fact, there can be no trade without trust. the unambiguous mark of origin will not only benefit consumers, as this proposal for a regulation will also have beneficial effects for european industry. our production, more and more, has to be associated with a high level of quality and style. this is what can enable us to survive in the globalised world, for example in sectors as skilled as textiles, clothing, jewellery, footwear and even the car, in terms of design and quality, because this is another sensitive sector. consumers around the world are often willing to pay more when they know that the product has been made in the european union and this is one of the 'natural' advantages we can defend. even - and i say this in connection with this weekend's wto negotiations - a matter as sensitive to europe as geographical indications falls within this philosophy: we must defend what characterizes us at the global level. so it is a point on which we clearly support the commission: we do not understand the attitude of many of the states of the european union which are currently blocking the decision in the council. we believe that this is an important step towards improving our global presence and competitiveness and i believe that this is part of our collective responsibilities. the commission and the member states should not listen only to importers, wholesalers or companies, however respectable, who have already moved their production to other continents. they should also listen to the legitimate demands of consumers and european industry, which needs to affirm that characteristic which is the trademark of origin. it is also a question of justice. our main trading partners are imposing the 'made in europe' on us, so why are we not doing our part to make this brand more prestigious? globalization does not mean giving up our heritage of experience and capacity, it means empowering it. i hope that the member states which oppose this fair initiative in the council will understand this.
author. mr president, i would like to start by recalling the declaration of the world information summit, held in tunisia in november 2005, which placed great importance on the information society in relation to human rights and fundamental freedoms and, in particular, freedom of expression and opinion, as well as freedom to receive and have access to information. that is why it is so sad and regrettable that today we have to remember that dozens of people are in prison in various countries of the world, but especially in china, for the simple and only reason of wanting to communicate and express themselves through the net. however, while the primary responsibility certainly lies with the censoring governments, it must also be remembered that in many cases it is western companies, many of them european, that provide those governments with the tools and the capabilities to be able to carry out control and censorship. this is the case, among others, of companies such as yahoo, google, microsoft, cisco systems, telecom italia, wanadoo and some subsidiaries of france telecom. we therefore want to condemn in this resolution, without fail, the restrictions on freedom of expression imposed by some governments via the internet and, in particular, the acts of persecution and detention carried out by some. we therefore expressly ask the council and the commission to raise this issue in their bilateral meetings with the countries mentioned in the resolution and, in particular, with china. secondly, we also want to call on the council and the member states to make public, in a joint statement, their commitment to the protection of the rights of internet users and to freedom of expression on the internet. thirdly, we call for limits to be placed on certain companies which make profits in certain countries at the expense of human rights. in short, in today's world, one way to promote and respect human rights is precisely to guarantee freedom of expression on the internet and avoid censorship, persecution and imprisonment. we must therefore ask the commission and the council to take account of the need to pay attention to these particular issues when drawing up their aid programmes.
mr president, after listening to the commissioner's explanations and to demonstrate the good will of parliament and the willingness of the committee on international trade to cooperate, the adjective 'even' should be deleted from paragraph 2 where the commission is mentioned. we also wish to insert the word formally, so the text concerned will read: (...) the commission did not send the proposed regulation formally to parliament (...). so we add the text formally to the parliament. i think that will improve our relations with the commission.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 6 july 2006.
ladies and gentlemen, since we parted company before the summer, there have been a number of events which i would like to mention in order to give you an idea of our work and to inform you of the activities of the parliamentary bodies which have taken place during the summer. firstly, with regard to the war in lebanon: in the face of the tragic events that were taking place, i felt that parliament could not remain on holiday and had to react. a special conference of presidents of political groups was therefore convened on 20 july. the conference of presidents adopted a clear and much more forceful declaration than that of the union's foreign affairs council on the 17th, in which we called for an immediate ceasefire in the region; we were also the first to call for the deployment of an international force within the framework of the united nations and with a strong participation of the european union. the presidents of the political groups unanimously called for the institutions of the union and its member states to speak with one voice, which unfortunately did not happen. on 1 august, in the face of the continuing escalation of violence and attacks against civilians, the conference of presidents held a new extraordinary meeting, this time open to all members. the conference of presidents clearly condemned attacks against civilians, such as those which had just taken place in the lebanese city of qana. we again appealed to the council to call for an immediate ceasefire. in accordance with the resolutions of this conference of presidents, i negotiated a declaration by the bureau of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly which was published on 7 august. it was the first time that european and arab political leaders had spoken with one voice in relation to this crisis. on 24 august the apem bureau met in brussels, having previously convened all the members of the european parliament who are members of this house. the apem bureau adopted a declaration calling for european participation in the intervention force and decided to send a delegation to lebanon, israel and the palestinian territories. finally, on 25 august, as you know, the governments of the member states decided to respond to our calls for action and to those also addressed to them by the united nations, by sending a considerable contingent of troops from european countries to the area. as you can understand, these meetings have had to be called at very short notice and not all members who had decided or wished to participate in them were able to hear about them in time. i apologize for the rush in the timing of these meetings and i am therefore also glad that we are including a debate on this matter on the first agenda. it is clear to everyone that the european union is undertaking the largest military mission ever undertaken, that it is a challenge to our political credibility and that beyond the role of peacekeepers in an area which affects us very directly, the union has the opportunity to support diplomatic action in the region as a whole and to relaunch the peace process between israel and palestine. the second theme of the summer was the influx of illegal immigrants from africa, particularly to the coasts of the canary islands and lampedusa. i have been in constant contact with commissioner frattini, whom i would like to thank for the decisions he has taken and the impetus he has given to cooperation between european countries to resolve some cases, particularly dramatic from a humanitarian point of view, relating to illegal immigration. but let us be aware that this summer 10 000 people have arrived in lampedusa and 20 000 in the canary islands, almost 2 000 more yesterday alone, that is to say four times as many as last year, and hundreds of people have died at sea trying to cross. let us also be aware that these people do not want to stay on lampedusa or lanzarote, they want to go to europe. what is happening there therefore affects us all, it affects europe as a whole, both in its immigration policy and in its development policy. i would like to draw the attention of parliament, of all of us, to the fact that we are not facing an emergency, we are not facing an exceptional problem that occurs once in a while: we are facing a structural problem that is going to recur more strongly every summer because the income and demographic differential between europe and africa will cause this immigration to increase, and in the face of this europe must put in place a policy of development in africa and cooperation between european countries, developing for this purpose a common immigration policy. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to point out, as you know, that the summer was also marked by the preparation of a major attack on the air routes linking the united kingdom and the united states, which reminds us of the continuing terrorist threat. we are also reminded of the deadly attacks in turkey, which have claimed the lives of european citizens. this must increase our efforts to deal with the phenomenon of terrorism by means acceptable to us and respectful of our freedoms. in this part-session on thursday we shall have the opportunity to discuss the sensitive issue of passenger data on commercial flights, which continues to concern us. and in this connection i must inform you that ireland has brought an action against the directive on data retention, which jeopardises the delicate balance we had struck between the council and parliament. these are the facts which mark the parliamentary work we must carry out from now on.
i am sorry to inform you that we will not all be present at this parliamentary work which we are now beginning; one of us will be missing, our colleague, the hungarian member of parliament istván pálfi, aged 40, who died on 15 july. as a member of the epp-de group, mr pálfi proved his parliamentary commitment by taking an active part in the committee on regional development and in the delegation to the eu-russia parliamentary cooperation committee. i sent a message of condolence to his family at the time, on behalf of all of you, and now you have a book of condolence at your disposal in front of the chamber for those who wish to express it personally. ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to observe a minute's silence in memory of our colleague, mr pálfi. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 31 august. the following amendments have been proposed: thursday: i have received a request from the socialist group for the point on zimbabwe to be replaced by a point on transdniester.
does anyone wish to speak in favor?
i see that we have started the parliamentary session with a disagreement between the two major groups, as it should be. we'll settle it through the vote. (parliament rejected the proposal)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
so we'll do it again. all the european institutions, and in particular the presidency of parliament, will do what they can to help resolve this unfortunate issue.
mr president, this weekend there was a fire at a chemical plant in the galician town of caldas de reis, which was storing chemicals, and as a result toxic waste was dumped into the umia river. the galician authorities reacted immediately and promoted emergency measures to control the spill, guarantee the water supply to the population of the salnés region and protect the natural and seafood wealth of the estuary. in a short time, effective action has been taken in an atmosphere of excellent cooperation between administrations. i would like to send a message of solidarity and support from the european parliament and ask the community's leaders to follow the process and to assess the relevance of any initiative or proposal for community protection against these risks.
we will pass your question on to the commission.
mr president, you have referred in your speech to one of the problems of this summer, which has been the mass arrival of immigrants to lampedusa and the canary islands; we are talking about tens of thousands of people. in this respect, the european union has decided to act through frontex and through collaboration between governments, but unfortunately it seems that this has not produced results, that is to say that at the moment, instead of the number of immigrants being reduced after the european union's action, immigration has increased and the problems have not been solved. this means that the european union is not currently applying the necessary means and we therefore believe that it should redouble its efforts to ensure that this phenomenon of illegal immigration is brought to an end, because of its consequences both for the european union itself and for the fate of the africans concerned.
mr president, this august françois lamoureux left us at the age of 59, too soon. i met him as director general of transport and energy. his door was always open, always curious, to listen, to advise and to give his opinion. his lucidity and intelligence, his professional rigor and exactingness, his profound coherence, even the impertinence of the most lucid: he has left us one of the best examples of a european public service based on vocation, founded on a federalist, europeanist and genuinely progressive conviction. we owe it to him that the delors white paper was made a reality in the transeuropean networks and also, ironically, the opening up of the railway sector in the best possible way, the galileo project, the motorways of the sea and the current logistics project. it has not given it the 'last chance' to formulate and implement a european energy policy. it won't be the same one you get. i wish to pay tribute to him now, at the very moment when we will need him most. i am sure he would smile through the glass of his glasses when he learns of the controversy and the europeanist review that his absence is provoking. in his honour, i believe we must continue to work hard for more progress and more europe, a europe which really serves the common interest. (applause) i would like to thank
this closes this spot.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to present to you today the proposal for a regulation on the financing of measures to combat pollution caused by ships. the purpose of this regulation is to provide the european maritime safety agency with the financial means it needs to carry out the new tasks assigned to it in the field of the fight against pollution caused by ships. since the agency's responsibility for pollution control is intended to be exercised in the long term, this text defines a financial envelope to be charged to the community budget on the basis of a multiannual commitment. the effective performance of the tasks is only possible if there is financial security based on a multiannual commitment. the purpose of the proposal is therefore to lay down the procedures for the community contribution, set at eur 154 million 2004 reference amount for the period 2007-13. the proposal provides that the financial means made available to the agency are to cover all the pollution control activities of the agency as listed in its action plan adopted in october 2004. among these activities, i would particularly highlight operational assistance to member states wishing to strengthen national pollution response mechanisms by means of specialised vessels: in fact reserve vessels equipped for the recovery of pollutants at sea which the agency will make available to member states. another activity was the development, in addition to aerial surveillance, of a satellite imaging service to enable pollution to be detected and thus assist the member states in their fight against illicit discharges and accidental spills of hydrocarbons. another activity is the development of a capacity to react to accidents involving harmful and dangerous substances. i thank your rapporteur and the committee on transport and tourism for seeking and succeeding, mr president, in reaching agreement with the council at first reading. this constructive approach between the two institutions should make it possible to adopt the regulation quickly, so that a viable system for combating pollution at community level can be established without delay. i would like to thank mr luis de grandes pascual and the committee on transport and tourism for their work. the compromise you have reached clarifies the commission's proposal on a number of points. the commission therefore fully supports and accepts all the compromise amendments proposed by parliament. i thank you for your attention and will now follow closely the sensible remarks of the various speakers.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left behind. i have tried to reach basic consensus through dialogue with all those who have shown an interest in this work. at the same time, as you have said, mr commissioner, we have had a fluid and fruitful relationship with the commission and the council, which has resulted in compromise amendments which will allow this report to be adopted at first reading and, consequently, to avoid delay in the measures envisaged in the context of the new tasks entrusted to the agency, to combat pollution from ships more effectively. i shall briefly outline the main features of the report. firstly, it is a financial regulation, which allows the agency to carry out the new tasks assigned to it on the basis of a seven-year multiannual commitment, covering the period 2007-2013, in accordance with the new financial perspective. the new tasks assigned to the agency are aimed at increasing maritime safety and preventing pollution from ships in the waters of the member states. the commission initially set the amount of the commitment at eur 154 million, an amount which was consolidated by parliament in the financial perspective and which has been maintained without any reduction in the interinstitutional agreement reached last may. it should be noted that this amount was originally indicative and has now been agreed by parliament, the council and the commission. this is the minimum staff needed to carry out the new tasks assigned to the agency. it should be recalled that the purpose of the agency is to provide the appropriate framework for the development of concrete actions to increase maritime safety and prevent pollution by ships in the waters of the member states, and to provide the states with additional means when national response means are insufficient to deal with a large-scale disaster. it must therefore be stressed that the agency is not intended to replace the action of the member states, but to make up for the lack of resources of the states affected by disasters and to complement their action. the additional means in question are essentially long-term chartering of vessels through availability contracts with commercial shipowners who have vessels with sufficient capacity to adapt to pollution control operations. in response to a request for assistance from a member state, these vessels would interrupt their usual commercial activities in order to deploy in the disaster area. as regards the criteria for selecting priorities for the deployment of vessels by zone, as a result of the amendments submitted and the agreements reached with the council, the agency should pay particular attention to the areas declared to be more vulnerable, as they are susceptible to a higher risk of accident or deliberate spillage given their characteristics and precedents, without prejudice to the possibility of providing assistance in any other area within community waters that needs and requests assistance. in 2005, the first contract for support vessels - a total of seven - for oil recovery was awarded by means of a restricted tender. before the end of this year, 2006, the second tender will be closed. the agency is now seeking to award four new contracts for vessels, covering preferably the two large atlantic areas and the mediterranean area. the rapporteur believes that this should be the occasion to fulfil the commitment made to galicia. in any event, before the agency starts to contract support vessels, it shall first take stock of the means available to the member states in order to optimise in complementary terms the needs of the member states which the agency is to serve. it should also be noted that the rapporteur's aim of extending the scope of the regulation so that the agency's actions take account not only of pollution by oil but also of pollution by harmful and dangerous substances has been achieved. on this point, consensus has been reached by using the term 'pollution from ships' to describe pollution caused not only by oil but also by harmful and dangerous substances. it is also worth noting that it was agreed that the agency would play an important role in the development of a centralised satellite imagery service for monitoring, early detection of pollution and identification of ships responsible, increasing the availability of data and efficiency in the fight against marine pollution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. we have noted that in the past other agencies have been accused of acting with a certain opacity and away from parliamentary control. in order to avoid such detrimental features, it has been agreed that, independently of the four-yearly evaluation provided for in article 7, the european parliament will be regularly informed on the financial implementation of the resources allocated to the agency. ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that the new practices of transparency will enhance the prestige of the agency, and will remove from it any image of a mere bureaucratic instrument. i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by asking for support for this report, which is not the work of this rapporteur alone, but the result of the involvement of all the political groups and the consensus between parliament, the commission and the council.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the european maritime safety agency is ready to get involved in the fight against marine pollution from the thousands of ships that ply the community's waters every day, but it must be acknowledged beforehand that there is an inability of the member states to respond to the great ecological disasters we suffer from time to time, such as the sadly remembered cases of the shipwreck of the erika and, above all, the prestige. it is right to recognize that it cannot be required that each and every coastal member state, regardless of its size and wealth, should be permanently equipped with sufficient physical and technological means to respond immediately and effectively to major accidents and disasters. it should also be noted that ships transport goods and merchandise which not only originate and are destined for coastal states but which are also part of the supply and trade chain of other continental or non-maritime states and therefore share a share of the risks of maritime transport. it is therefore appropriate and necessary to adopt community measures to supplement and support those established by the individual member states, without thereby relieving the latter of their primary responsibility both in preventing and responding to marine pollution. among those support measures, the european maritime safety agency shall establish a system for the collection and analysis of information on pollution from ships, which would include satellite photographic monitoring, scientific and technical assistance and operational assistance, by vessels distributed over various maritime geographical regions and ready to intervene in the event of accidents and disasters at the request of the member states concerned. this regulation is intended to provide financial cover for the costs of these new services during the next seven years of the 2007-13 programming period, and the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe supports the proposal with the compromise amendments shared with other parliamentary groups, while congratulating mr de grandes on his good report and the consensus work he has done to get this regulation adopted at first reading. however, i would like to say that i am convinced that the greatest pollution at sea is not caused by accidents and disasters, but by a great lack of environmental awareness and a superiority of economic objectives on the part of unscrupulous people who consciously and voluntarily clean the tanks and bilges of ships on the high seas. satellite photographs may help to reduce these cases, but i doubt they will do much good on cloudy and low-visibility days. i therefore support the introduction of automatic mechanisms on all ships which monitor the levels of tanks and bilge tanks at regular intervals and which are used to determine whether or not the waste has been emptied in the waste dumps provided for in the marpol regulations. this should be mandatory, like the black box in airplanes or the tachograph in trucks. it would be the best measure to put an end to the voluntary dumping of pollutants, which i believe are the most numerous and harmful.
mr president, as our coordinator, willi piecyk, has already said, the socialists support this multiannual financial framework for the european maritime safety agency and we are also pleased that an agreement has been reached. the agency was set up following two major disasters - the oil spills from the erika and the prestige - and was created with the mission of providing disaster relief to coastal states when requested by them. i would like to say in this connection, commissioner, that in my region, galicia, on the atlantic coast, which has been particularly hard hit by the major catastrophes of the last twenty years, the location of the vessels on alert for the collection of hydrocarbons assigned to the agency has been a watershed. although the commission expressly recognised that the area most affected by large-scale oil spills over the past 35 years had been the galician coast, with more than seven spills of more than 10 000 tonnes, of the seven anti-pollution vessels contracted by the agency, not a single one was located in galicia: five in the baltic, one in the mediterranean and one in the north atlantic area of the english channel. but, to be fair, i will also say that one of the commitments that this parliament took from the commission after the prestige disaster was the presence of a pollution control vessel based in galicia, and in this connection i have to tell mr barrot that the smooth dialogue with the commission, both with the director of transport and with the director of the agency itself, has given us peace of mind. amendment no 13, which divides the atlantic coast into two zones, as mrs ayala and i had requested, mr de ruiter's visit to galicia and the good communication between the regional government and the agency ensure that the european union's commitments to galicia in relation to the deployment of a pollution control vessel on the galician coast will not be ignored.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr de grandes. i'm glad you look in such fine and enviable health. i have to say that you have done a magnificent job in cooperation with the council in getting an agreement at first reading, because it was important to ensure the stability and the work of this maritime safety agency. the proposals you have put forward together contain two of the requests that mrs miguélez ramos and i put forward. one of them was precisely that, as this new programme extended the control of the agency to dangerous substances, the fact that oil was at its base should not be forgotten. secondly, as regards the division into zones, mrs miguélez ramos has already referred to this, and i would like to see the initial shortcomings on both sides of the border resolved, since the terms of the contracts were not very encouraging to shipowners in the area, who were not interested in making ships available, and the agency's insistence was not very strong. i think that, as mrs miguélez ramos has very well said, that is now over and we are facing a much more practical and better organized future. we would like to inform the agency and the commission that in this multiannual programme the committee on budgetary control will also be very attentive to ensuring that the actions, the action plan and therefore the presence of the vessels are precisely adapted to the needs and that there are therefore no more shortcomings that we have seen in the past. i shall end with a thought and a request to vice-president barrot, who i know is a man who is distinguished by paying close attention to the requests of this parliament. in these days when the maritime borders of my country, italy, malta and greece are proving to be extremely weak, we would like the frontex agency to have at least the same deployment of vessels and means to control and protect our maritime borders that we are today approving for the maritime safety agency. i would ask vice-president barrot to help his colleague mr frattini in the commission, so that frontex can have the necessary resources as soon as possible, which we are missing so much this summer.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking mr de grandes pascual and your committee on transport and tourism for their excellent work, which should enable us to achieve adoption at first reading. i am glad of this because, as you have both said, we must never forget the disasters of the prestige and erika. it is therefore absolutely essential that all the necessary means be used, and since parliament and the council have decided to bring their texts together, we shall reach this agreement at first reading. the commission naturally supports the compromise reached in the informal trilogue with the council. in this spirit, it accepts the compromise amendments which you propose, mr de grandes pascual, and which are supported by the various political groups. these amendments reflect the compromise reached in the informal trilogue with the council. i am convinced that tomorrow the members of the european parliament will support this approach, even if the financial envelope of 154 million should be considered a minimum, as a recital in the rules of procedure states. i should like to take this opportunity to respond to some of the comments that have been made on the agency's missions. we may consider this extension in the context of the revision of the regulation planned for 2007. i am thinking in particular, mr president, of what is happening on the lebanese coast, where we would like to be able to respond more easily to the needs of our lebanese friends. i have also noted your concern to ensure that the efforts of the agency in the field of pollution control will not be reflected in a disengagement on the part of the member states. we must be very clear on this point. i thank you, mr president: the quality of this debate, like your various suggestions and proposals, shows how much parliament feels involved in this effort to combat marine pollution and protect our european maritime area, which is one of our riches. i therefore thank parliament and i hope that all this will enable us to adopt this excellent text quickly.
member of the commission. mr president, i am very pleased that we are having this debate tonight and it happens to be a continuation of the previous debate on a similar subject. i should like to say that in the first months of this year the european union's civil protection mechanism was activated 11 times and in particular, following requests, it intervened in the floods that we had in the spring in various european countries and especially in the countries that requested it, slovakia, hungary, bulgaria, romania and, outside the european union, algeria. we have also recently had the crisis in lebanon and the related problems created by the hostilities. both lebanon and cyprus have requested the european union to intervene on three issues: the first is the dispatch of humanitarian aid to refugees and displaced persons. the second was the evacuation: the evacuation of citizens from the european union countries from lebanon, their transfer to cyprus, their reception there and then their repatriation. the third problem that was created was the problem of oil spill contamination due to the bombing of oil tanks in southern lebanon and the fact that about 10 to 15 thousand tons of oil fell on the coast and then into the sea, polluting the entire length of the lebanese coast. in this case, the european union immediately sent experts to both cyprus and lebanon and:- firstly, we mobilized the civil protection mechanisms of the european countries, coordinated the dispatch of aid and dealt with the specific problem of transporting humanitarian aid, since some of the countries that offered aid did not have the means of transport - and this is a more specific problem that we have to look at in the future. secondly, as i have already said, the swiftest possible transfer of european citizens and citizens of third countries from cyprus to their countries. this was a very difficult undertaking if you imagine that about 45,000 citizens of other countries left lebanon, went to cyprus and had to be repatriated. the european union, through the civil protection mechanism, coordinated the transport and the timing of the arrival of the planes so that the citizens of the various countries would spend as little time as possible in cyprus. i must note and underline the extraordinary efficiency with which the cypriot authorities and many volunteers have dealt with this crisis. and of course, with our participation. the third big problem that came up was the oil spill problem. as i said before, we immediately sent experts who are still there as the problem still exists: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the baltic sea is not affected by the pollution of the baltic sea, and that the situation in the baltic sea is not affected by the pollution of the baltic sea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. from these countries, spain asked the european union for help and, within a few hours of the spanish government's request, firefighting planes, fire engines and firefighters from several european countries were provided and with the assistance of the european union, the actions of the spanish government and the change in weather conditions and rainfall, the fire was finally extinguished. we also had a big problem in ethiopia with floods that are still threatening the country; we had hundreds of dead and many thousands of refugees. the european union's experts and specialists are there and the european union countries have offered some supplies and materials to deal with the drama in this country which - i stress - is still in crisis. the european union has also sent aid through the commission's civil protection mechanism to indonesia following the earthquake last may. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the forests are protected, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the forests are protected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. policies at european level are intended to reinforce the respective policies of the member states. these include the funding programmes we have available either under the new rural development regulation which will have the possibility of financing actions for forest protection - this is the regulation 'forest focus' - or under the new life+ programme which explicitly provides for the financing of various activities previously financed by forest focus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that in matters of civil protection against natural disasters we can never be satisfied. many crises and natural disasters cannot be prevented. but we can be better prepared. and although the civil protection mechanism has proved to be of added value and very important, there is still a lot of room for improvement, a lot of room for us to be able to make it more effective. the european parliament has always been a party to the european convention on human rights, and it is not a party to the convention on the rights of the child.
i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the house, and i would like to thank the other groups who have supported this initiative and allowed us to have this debate today. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his presence and, above all, for his work and commitment in this area. however, some colleagues have rightly told us that we are doing the same as last year, that we are in the same situation as last summer. i would like to answer that no. it is true that we also discussed the fires last september, it is true that we visited the affected areas with some of our colleagues here - and this, of course, not without difficulties created by some of the instances in this house - and it is true that we held a hearing at which the relatives of the victims were able to address us all in an emotional way, but we are not in the same situation, because since then the european parliament has put clear and concrete initiatives and proposals on the council's table. for example, in the context of the berend report, the house adopted a set of amendments to update the european union solidarity fund, we have also asked the european commission for a specific directive on fires and drought, since there is a directive on floods, and we have asked the council for a committed response to the report by former commissioner barnier, which was presented, as everyone knows, at the last european council. so we are not, or we should not be, in the same situation as we were a year ago. we have a package of proposals which should enable us to be much more effective in fighting fires. what we lack is a reaction from the council, and that is as much the fault of the presidencies we have had this year, which have done practically nothing, as of those member states most affected who have made no demands. some competent public authorities hide behind the drought to justify failure, or behind the fires they cause. it is true that there is drought and it is true that there are criminals, as there were in the past, but we should ask the authorities what they have done this year in the field of prevention and whether, when the inevitable has happened, they have coordinated well within and outside their borders. for example, the commissioner referred to the most important fire of this summer, the one in galicia. i would ask you to tell us when you received the formal request for assistance from the spanish government, on what day exactly you were asked to activate the civil protection mechanism. ladies and gentlemen, we simply ask for more prevention and more coordination. we are not inventing means or funds that do not exist, but simply applying the european union solidarity fund, which would have been much easier, by the way, if the european parliament's proposals had been taken into account. we are not asking for more powers for the european union either, but for more foresight and coordination in full respect of subsidiarity. let's see if, by helping those in need now, we don't have to repeat this debate next year.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the freshness with which mr galeote is trying to claim authorship of this resolution will not prevent me from telling you all that the socialists, from the very beginning, that is to say, from monday last week, were very clear and very determined that we wanted a motion for a resolution and that we wanted it in this house and we wanted it on this matter. because, ladies and gentlemen, the fires in southern europe are, like the floods in central europe, a recurring environmental emergency. and its causes are well studied: over 80 percent are due to human actions, whether negligent, intentional, or harmful. but we're talking about starting a fire, and starting a fire is one thing, and spreading it, the surface being calcined, is another. because other factors are already at play here, such as the climate, which this summer was very extreme with very strong winds, very high temperatures, with no or very little rainfall, or the state of the mountain which, for socioeconomic reasons, is abandoned, full of highly combustible weeds that help it to spread, as well as the planting of inappropriate forest species and the abandonment, for decades, of a real forestry policy. in the southern mediterranean countries, there has been a huge investment in means of extinction. in all southern europe we have very efficient fire-fighting mechanisms, but the means are always insufficient: suffice it to say that in galicia, ladies and gentlemen, there have been over 7 000 people and over 60 aircraft dedicated to fire-fighting this summer, but how can we fight 300 fires a day? in this respect, what we socialists are asking the commission to do is very clear. on the one hand, we want the commission to facilitate the implementation of the solidarity fund in this case by means of the political criterion: we want the solidarity fund to be applied to the populations and regions affected in the european union. and, besides, we ask you two things. one has to do with forest focus. we have a warning system which is effective, but not sufficient. it is effective because it does allow us to see the areas of climate risk or the areas of risk of outright natural disaster, but it does not allow us to see what the areas of socioeconomic risk are. and we socialists say that behind these fires there is a profound abandonment of the more traditional rural work and also an ageing of the population currently living in rural areas. we also ask you to mobilise the european forestry strategy. we believe that commissioner dimas must find the money and the instruments to implement effective policies which will enable us to keep the population in the countryside through this forestry plan or strategy and which will also enable us to take care of and extend our forestry masses.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, when an oil tanker sinks, we are all very aware, first of all, of the gravity of the situation, of its environmental impact and of the need to tackle its response together. however, when we are faced with fires or floods, we in fact continue to act, in the european union, as if they were isolated episodes that do not deserve or need a truly global response and that do not have, in the perspective of some, a true european dimension. and that is absurd. and because of this lack of a comprehensive vision and policies consistent with that comprehensive vision, we lack a real provision of instruments to fight. i think there are, in fact, three dimensions to this kind of disaster that need to be addressed. the european union could do much more to strengthen its rapid response measures to civil protection crises and it does not do so; the european union, in particular the council, has refused or is still refusing to implement what was proposed to it in the barnier report, with specific proposals for the creation of a european civil protection response service, and that is what has to be put into practice for pure emergency situations. but obviously, after the immediate coordinated response to the emergency, which does not work because the planning instruments do not exist or are not well implemented, there is, of course, a lack of after-care for the victims. that is the second element to be considered. and that is where my group joins the call of other groups, stressing the importance of applying with political vision, 'keeping its rules, no doubt, but with political vision' the european union solidarity fund, which was created for that purpose. a fire, a flood - and i am speaking specifically of the situation in galicia - completely destroys the already scarce resources available to a region for its development, and it is therefore obvious that we are facing a situation which calls for the urgent application of the solidarity fund to help these populations, this territory which has been reduced to ashes in terms of tourism and the economy - and in this case its source of income is not a metaphor. we reach the third dimension, to prevent the first and second from repeating, although we know that they can never be avoided completely. it is logically a matter of prevention. we need a real european forestry policy, which does not exist because it remains fragmented. since forest focus was developed, there have been more fires and on more land. and we hope that the european commission will take this into account in the report it has to present before the end of 2006. biomass needs to be stimulated. we must really believe in the consequences of warming in this case and the rise in temperatures. the european rural development fund must take account of the consequences in the forestry sector. that will change the situation and we will no longer have to deal with problems like this every year after the summer.
mr president, as a member of the european parliament for the galician electoral coalition, i wish to represent today the galician nationalist bloc, which has asked me to convey its concern and political rejection of all the fires that have occurred this summer and, in particular, those that have devastated large areas of forest, including the natura 2000 network in galicia, and which have also claimed several human lives. i would like to express my deepest sympathy and solidarity with the families of the victims and with all the people affected. in galicia there has been a new environmental tragedy, which is added to other ecological disasters, such as that of the prestige ship. that's why today we have to shout "never again". "never more lume", which means, never more fire. unlike the prestige case, i believe that today there is nothing to be said against the management and response given to the disaster by the xunta de galicia and the state government, but the dimensions of the fire were such that they highlighted the need for greater solidarity and for european means to assist the member states in extinguishing large fires, or to tackle floods, as we are going to approve tomorrow for the financing of the fight against marine pollution. but at the same time, we must not ignore the analysis of the influence they may have had on these fires, which are considered to be largely caused by the extensive planting of non-native species during previous decades, the confusing changes in the use and urban requalification of the burned areas, the interest of the pulp mills in obtaining cheap wood, or the supposed revanchism of former forest guards who this summer have not been hired for surveillance. we must also examine how much responsibility we all have, together with the common agricultural policy, for the forced abandonment of traditional agricultural activities by those who, lacking alternative employment, have depopulated the countryside and upset the balance of land use and, of course, no longer take care of the forestry masses, nor give early warning, nor tackle fires. we need a reflection on all of this.
mr president, i would ask the commissioner to pay particular attention to the development and conclusions of the committee of inquiry of the galician parliament on this latest disaster. in recent years, galicia has been particularly affected by disasters such as the prestige. in recent years, too, three hundred and fifty thousand hectares of forest have been destroyed by fires, and this summer, nearly eighty thousand. we must therefore be very attentive to this research, to take account of the calls for major legislative changes, which will undoubtedly have to be made. these days, we are witnessing a new catastrophe in galicia: the umia river is being polluted by a chemical industry; it should never have been allowed to be located precisely next to the umia river. i therefore ask the commissioner to give me that special attention. why would you do that? because the specific nature of this latest disaster indicates that these are fires started by professionals. what hand is behind this natural catastrophe? there is no doubt that if we are to increase penalties, if we are to amend european legislation, we must do so and above all we must be attentive to this investigation, because there is indeed a hand behind it that must be brought to light.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by sending a message of sympathy from the european parliament to the families of those who died, and to express our condolences and solidarity with the victims and the inhabitants of all the territories of the union where fires and floods occurred this summer. the extinguishing of the fires in galicia has occurred under extreme circumstances, the conditions of the 30th: there were more than 30°c of temperature for many days, a wind of more than 30 kilometres per hour and a humidity of less than 30%. and this extinction was achieved thanks to an unprecedented mobilization, under the presidency of the regional government, in which national and international collaboration has been decisive. i would therefore like to thank the european union and its member states for their support. there is a lot of work to be done and we must continue to work together in three directions. to help the victims, the xunta de galicia has set an example, allocating 13 million euros for the most serious damages; the spanish government's programme will provide between 40 and 60. it is necessary to add european funds from the solidarity fund, as my colleague mrs miguélez has pointed out. the xunta de galicia has already launched a plan worth 126 million euros until 2009 to restore the environment and, in addition, to move towards adequate forestry development, for which the other community funds must be open and mobilised. the fires are the first threat to european and mediterranean forests, and as galicians we are very vulnerable. i call on the commission to draw up a proposal for a fire directive, to launch a community programme for the period 2007-13, to activate the galileo system and the technological means for detecting and fighting fires and to strengthen civil protection by creating a european civil protection force.
mr president, commissioner, in galicia this summer the fires were extinguished late and badly. the result was a catastrophe. the commission's sources say that in mid-august, 88,473 hectares were burned - i would like the commissioner to update me on this today - not counting the burnt areas of less than 50 hectares, which are numerous in the small-scale region of galicia, so that the total burned area is well over 100 000 hectares, which is 80% of the total burned in spain and half of all that has been burned in europe. four dead, 514 injured, 35 population centres displaced, the main communication routes cut off, a multitude of dead and injured animals: in short, a real tragedy, an unprecedented environmental and human catastrophe, with incalculable economic and social consequences. without a doubt, the worst environmental catastrophe in galicia. the crisis caused by the prestige, which we have discussed here, did not cause any human casualties and galicia recovered quickly, thanks to the rapid action of marine regeneration, but this leaves us with human casualties and a burnt-out territory which, according to all the experts, will take twenty, thirty, or perhaps more years to recover. how will it affect the climate, biodiversity, groundwater, the devastated spaces of the nature network? commissioner, what has galicia failed to do this year? do you know? do you think that the fire in galicia has been effectively put out? you told us here that the spanish authorities asked for help and that the european union responded quickly. can you give us, as requested, the date on which it was requested? could that cooperation have been improved? the european dimension of this catastrophe means that we must emphasize its magnitude here and, also from here, call for the necessary means and the aid available to alleviate its dramatic consequences in the short, medium and long term, and work together to ensure that we also know what has gone wrong, so that it does not happen again. we therefore call for the urgent mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for galicia, which has been devastated by fire and is facing a very serious ecological, economic and social situation.
mr president, this summer there have again been numerous fires in several countries in southern europe. they have been particularly devastating in spain, particularly in galicia. this year in galicia the fires were met with the lack of foresight and the inefficiency of the regional government. the consequences of the disaster were thus greatly aggravated: 4 dead, more than 500 injured, more than 100 000 hectares burned, 4% of the galician forest area burned, serious environmental damage and, also, it has had serious repercussions on livestock, the tourist sector, etc. this black august has also caused deep alarm throughout galician society. cerdedo, soutomaior, ponte caldelas, pontevedra, meis, santiago, padrón, muros, vimianzo, avión, quiroga, are some of the many municipalities affected by the fires in galicia this summer. the galician people are european. you know that, as goethe said, europe was made on the road to santiago de compostela, and as an objective 1 region, galicia is aware of the role that the structural and cohesion funds have played in its development. i would also like to stress that in galicia the number of votes cast in last year's referendum on the european constitution was well above the average for the rest of spain. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: but more measures are needed to prevent a repetition of these disasters. we must therefore make progress in building a european civil protection system capable of responding quickly and effectively to the disasters that occur almost every summer and that particularly affect the forests of southern europe. the european union also needs to pay more attention to the continent's forest wealth from the point of view of fire prevention. and in this sense i do not know if it is good news the forthcoming dissolution of the forest focus programme within the life+ programme. in addition, as this parliament has repeatedly said, a european directive on forest fires and drought is needed. neither galicia, spain nor europe can accept the fact that our forests are disappearing, as if it were an inexorable fate.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers for their very positive contributions to tonight’s discussion. a very wide and rich range of issues was raised, from trans-boundary pollution – fires in russia, which should of course be raised in the framework of eu-russia cooperation – to stricter criminal laws regarding arson and arsonists, which lie within the exclusive competence of the member states. the european union mechanism for civil protection is a relatively new instrument with limited resources, limited means and competences, but recent experience shows that it works: it is a real example of european union added value. having said this, when dealing with natural disasters there is no room for complacency and it is clear that our prevention, preparedness and response activities can still be improved. this is why earlier this year the commission prepared a legislative proposal to reinforce the mechanism both politically and operationally. for example, the proposal will allow for the mobilisation of extra transport equipment and will provide a platform upon which to contribute to the development of early warning systems. in april 2005, the commission also presented a proposal for a council regulation establishing a rapid response and preparedness instrument for major emergencies. one part of this proposal provides the legal framework for the future financing of civil protection operations and will result in a budget of eur 119 million over a seven-year period. this is an improvement on previous levels of funding but, as i have mentioned many times before, the commission can only respond to the ambitious requests made by other institutions if sufficient resources are made available. mrs estrela, we have an ancient proverb, δεί δή χρημάτων – money is needed. otherwise, we cannot deliver more! both these instruments are currently being negotiated by the council. the commission would like to have them adopted by the end of the year once parliament’s opinion is available. i would also like to offer specific thanks for parliament’s initiative to earmark an additional eur 6.5 million in the civil protection budget for 2006. this has allowed the commission to launch an initiative to design, develop and test european approaches to joint civil protection intervention. this cooperation and coordination will make our fight against natural disasters – such as the floods in several european countries, or the summer forest fires in spain, for which assistance was requested by the spanish authorities on 9 august – even more effective. on the specific question of forest fires, which was raised by a number of members, it is necessary to note as i have before that forestry matters are a member state competence. member states are responsible for launching actions to protect forests threatened by fire, as well as restoration efforts. the main aim of the measures we take at european union level is to reinforce the member states’ policies. these measures include the possibility of financial support available under the new rural development regulation, the forest focus regulation and, from 2007, the commission’s proposal for life plus, which explicitly provides for the possibility of financing forest monitoring programmes and forest fire prevention activities in order to continue the work of the forest forum. let us look towards the future. the commission is preparing a study to look at the effectiveness of community measures for forest protection and at options to improve the effectiveness of these measures. the results of these analyses are expected by the end of 2007. the commission has proposed a directive under the codecision procedure on the assessment and management of floods, which i hope will be adopted soon. the commission has also undertaken preparatory work with regard to the threat of droughts, which become more intensive and frequent each year, particularly, but not only, in the southern parts of europe. we are engaged in discussions with the member states to collect information and to assess whether similar legislative action is needed. quite a few speakers referred to the council regulation establishing the european union solidarity fund, which does not allow the commission to mobilise the fund on its own initiative. it is necessary for the member state concerned to make an application to the commission within ten weeks of the date of the first damage. to date, no such application has been received from the spanish government. the possibility of financial assistance from the solidarity fund depends on whether the criteria in the regulation for mobilising the fund are met. the rules governing this instrument allow for the possibility of assistance in the event of major natural disasters. to qualify for aid, the estimated cost of total direct damage must exceed eur 3 billion at 2002 prices, or 0.6% of gross national income of the state in question, whichever is lower. the solidarity fund is not designed to support general longer-term prevention measures for the rehabilitation of agricultural production potential. in such cases, other potential sources of funding exist at community level, including projects co-financed by the structural funds. in addition, several possibilities of response to national disaster exist within the common agricultural policy. in 2006, the commission’s civil protection mechanism responded to floods, earthquakes, forest fires, marine pollution and emergencies with a humanitarian dimension. four european countries requested assistance in the spring floods, even though a greater number were eventually affected. we sent experts to all sorts of situations, from coordinating the european effort in cyprus and lebanon to assisting the indonesian authorities in the aftermath of the earthquake and the eruption of a volcano. we sent emergency supplies such as medicines, medical supplies, food and shelter. we dispatched equipment to pump water and to extinguish fires. with your support we shall continue to better prepare ourselves and to improve our response for the benefit of the member states and those we seek to help.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thought at first that i should not respond to those who expressed some doubts about my neutrality in the congo problem. i shall do so anyway because the remarks made were sometimes very excessive. mr pflüger, i would like to say that you have a rather expeditious view of the law. in some non-democratic countries, such views are still found. i thought that in europe, at any rate, and especially in a house as honourable as this one, which is, in a way, the guardian of democratic values such as the right of defence, respect for fair information, the objectivity of the developed argument, we were immune to conceptions such as this. i want to be very clear about what was said. mr pflüger, it is likely - perhaps because you have certainly not, like others, sought to investigate the matter - that all the statements i have made in the past weeks, months, even years, concerning my interest in the congo have escaped you. i never took sides with either candidate. i am still in regular telephone contact with president kabila and vice-president bemba. i was personally involved in the events of august 20, 21 and 22... i think general morillon knows that... to calm the spirits. so i can say that i have a personal contact with both candidates. for example, i can tell you that president kabila reproaches us for not having reacted sufficiently when candidates used arguments such as ethnicity or 'congolese' and made xenophobic statements during the election campaign. i must say that the strategy of some candidates to denounce "the foreign candidate" - unfortunately, this is part of some practices - has clearly impressed the international community so much that it has not reacted to a clear drift in the congolese electoral debate: the argument of the congolese identity, of the belonging of one or the other candidate to congo. all this to say that i simply reject the accusations of partiality that some have made against me. i am able to produce more than ten interviews for european and congolese newspapers in which my complete neutrality is expressed. i have made some criticisms of president kabila, vice president bemba and other candidates on the electoral rolls. mr van hecke had the intellectual honesty to be more thorough in his considerations. i also met mr tshisekedi at his home a long time ago, for an entire afternoon, to urge him to ask his supporters to register and to urge him to exercise his right to stand as a candidate, since i considered, and still consider, mr tshisekedi to be an experienced man who knows the congo well, a man who had a programme that he could have put forward to feed the political debate. in view of what i have just said, mr pflüger, it is a little light to accuse me of partiality simply because, once, on a programme, when asked 'what does a candidate like kabila represent?' i replied 'the hope of the congo'. i would have said "the hope of congo", because everyone who participates in an election represents the hope of their country, especially since this was the first time there was an election. i therefore find your truncated vision particularly excessive. you accuse me, for example - and i would have immediately reacted in the belgian national parliament by appealing to the rules of procedure for a personal reason - of protecting belgian economic interests. what belgian economic interests? one of the serious problems facing the congo is the lack of interest from foreign investors. and it is quite legitimate for any country, for any company, to consider that it has the right to seek economic or trade partnerships with any other country, provided that it ensures respect for natural resources, that it ensures that these resources are not plundered - as foreign forces have done for a very long time and as domestic forces still do today - and provided that it respects a minimum of economic ethics, a condition that, unfortunately or fortunately, must be taken into account in the open world that we know. so i ask the question: what economic interests? today, the economic interests i see in the congo are chinese, indian, israeli, american. it is not a reproach, it is not a criticism, but i meet very, very few european economic interests, mr pflüger. the truth has its rights and i must tell you that i would like european companies to invest in a country like the congo. he needs it. you are referring to a belgian company which has developed in the copper sector, i assume you mean mr forrest's company. i quote him because it has been alleged that one of my sons was married to mr forrest's daughter, that they were directors in mr forrest's companies and that i was therefore a close associate of mr forrest. i have met mr forrest three times in my life, for a few seconds, and i was with a belgian parliamentary delegation. mr. forrest provides 630 jobs through his company; they build hospitals, they build schools, they have a whole social system that is developing. i'm not defending mr. forrest personally. i don't know if mr. forrest is honest or not, i'm just saying. what i do know is that a belgian journalist has investigated mr forrest and has become a sympathizer of mr forrest, simply because he creates jobs. of the 630 people he employs in his company, 600 are congolese. i'm not defending mr. forrest, i don't know him very well, i've met him three times in my life for a few seconds. so i'm sick of these kinds of attacks that are, i have to say, nasty, and i can't let go. i can assure you of one thing, i am completely impartial, i have contacts with everyone in congo and i am honoured to have been probably one of the first, long before 1999, when i was still the leader of the opposition in my country, to try to mobilize the international community to finally take an interest in this country. why would you do that? but because, as someone said in the house, central africa has been the victim of nearly four million deaths in ten years. this is a figure that is unparalleled in comparison with other world conflicts. that is why i have always considered it my duty as a politician to take care of the congo. that's right, mr pflüger. i'm not going to lie. the second reason i got so involved with congo is that i'm belgian and so, in a way, inspired by a kind of historical memory. as a belgian, i did not feel so much responsible but rather indebted to the congolese people. it is therefore true that i feel a particular attachment to the congolese people, probably because i still have memories of a certain collective bad conscience and because i still have that old conception of morality which consists in re-reading the history of my country, the history of my people in an intellectually honest way. that is why, when i was foreign minister, we went to ask the rwandans for forgiveness, something that others have not yet done and which i regret. that is why, for the state assassination of mr lumumba, for example, i have also apologized on behalf of my country to the lumumba family. so i don't have to take a lecture on ethics, and you can organize all the investigations you want on me. the same people who claimed i was biased claimed i owned a diamond mine in the congo, that i bought a villa on the river, in short, everything was peddled. the only excuse you have for such an overreaction, which is not in keeping with my own conception of intellectual honesty, is that i believe you do not know the congo well. perhaps you have been to the congo or perhaps not, i don't know, but in any case you have a picture of it sometimes distorted by the excesses of certain parties who use any argument in the campaign. populism exists in the congo too, it exists everywhere, it exists even in our countries, it sometimes exists even in this house and i regret it. that's what i meant about neutrality. it is becoming tiresome to hear the commission repeatedly said that it is not neutral. to the charge, "you were not neutral", i answer, "we were absolutely neutral". mr kabila is angry with me because we did not denounce the excesses in the debate on congolese affairs; mr bemba is angry with me because as foreign minister and as commissioner i was meeting with president kabila. when i go to the congo, who do you want me to talk to if not the head of state? i had to meet mr. kabila. but if there is one thing that proves my neutrality, it is that i have never been to the congo, never once without meeting mr kabila and the four vice presidents who are part of the presidential space. i pushed my sense of neutrality further. i have systematically sought contact with mr tshisekedi. someone spoke about women, i met with representatives of all civil society, i met with everyone. i am probably, it is true, someone who has, in the congo, a fairly large information network and i am honoured to have been able to play a modest role in the transition process. by the way, i was criticized for supporting the transition process to the end. but there was no other choice but to support the transition process. mr tshisekedi and the udps, who denounced the transition process, had signed the pretoria agreement, they had signed the agreement which was the basis of the transition process. then i had the feeling that this party had played the politics of the worst, that it had considered that the transition was not going to succeed, that an alternative was needed and that this was the right way to get to power. personally, i can't help it. i do not think i am guilty of the fact that he withdrew from a process he had joined and subscribed to. i simply hoped that all the living forces would participate in the election. unfortunately, that did not happen and i regret it. there, that's a chapter that's closed. if i really felt i deserved to resign, i wouldn't wait for someone to ask me to. maybe i'm a little archaic in that regard. political responsibility still has meaning for me. but it must have a meaning on both sides: the one who bears responsibility and the one who denounces it. and when we denounce someone's political responsibility, it must be based on real evidence, it is not a matter of saying anything. i'm willing to argue long and hard about this, i can't accept what i'm being reproached for. it is a matter of deep concern to me because the essence of my political commitment over the years has been precisely to try to help this beautiful country and this beautiful people to get out of the misery and the disorder to which, it must be said, the international community has shown complete indifference, if not contempt. as regards the army, i have noted with great interest and i obviously quite agree with the various interventions that have been made. i agree with mrs gomes that military reform will be an extremely important point. about half of this reform has been completed. i would simply like to remind you that we had to reduce the number of troops, or rather the number of different troops and militias, from about 330 000 - i don't know if we can imagine - to 100 000, also taking into account the fact that the process of demobilization and reintegration, for example, attracted fake soldiers who came to join forces to take advantage of this process. so it's a lot harder to do than say. it's easy to say but it's hard to do and it takes a while to get this process right. i hope that the international community will continue to focus on helping the congo to reform its army. same for the police. in fact, substantial progress has already been made. mr schröder, i agree with almost everything you have said and i thank you for your moderation in relation to the previous point. however, when you say that we should not discuss the congo at the moment, i think we should. i think the second round can succeed if the international community tells both candidates unequivocally that they have no right to fail the second round because it would be insulting to the congolese fervor for democracy. the attitude of the congolese people, their enthusiasm for their rendezvous with democratic history was something beautiful to see, the most beautiful reward for all the efforts of the european union. i think we should talk about it. we must not even stop repeating that we must not miss the second round and that the one who is beaten must respect the verdict. the loser has a role to play, and the winner has to take that into account. that's my personal belief. i will be blamed again for going beyond the strict neutrality, but my personal belief is that the winner must have the wisdom not to act as if the other person is unimportant or insignificant. this is what he will have to do to revive the congo. i believe that deeply and the leader of the opposition will also have a role to play. i would like to congratulate general morillon on the way he has conducted the observation mission so far. i think he has a lot of merit: he did it in extremely difficult conditions; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. i really wanted to thank him and congratulate him. mrs aubert, you have rightly asked me the following question: 'what are you going to do? " that is the main point i have drawn from your speech. the real answer lies in what we have already discussed in this house. i believe that now more than ever we must suggest and encourage projects of good governance in the congo. you mentioned, for example, the correct and appropriate use of natural resources. we all know that the congo is a very rich country. it is a solvent country, as they say, it is a country that could ensure the prosperity and well-being of its people. there's a lot of things in the congo. first, there is a people and human resources of immense importance. what i believe is that we need to recreate a real state, a real state in the royal sense of the word, with a functioning justice and administration, with people who are paid, who get paid, with an education that works, with a health system that works. i spoke to both candidates and told them that rather than arguing about the congolese state and all these subordinate issues which, in the end, concern only your own interests, it might be better to tell the congolese how you intend to give them better access to education, justice, health, administration, culture, infrastructure; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. that is the real debate. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) i think what i have just said is very much in line with the conclusion i wanted to draw. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologise for being late. i thought it was important to clarify a number of things and to clarify my expectations regarding the second round of these elections.
the wto director-general, mr pascal lamy, announced on 24 july, following the wto trade negotiations committee meeting in geneva, that the doha round negotiations had been suspended indefinitely. i hope that this suspension is temporary and that the talks will not be reduced to ashes but that, as the commissioner has said, the phoenix will be able to come back from them. this decision, which has provisionally brought to an end five years of negotiations and more than seven years of diplomatic efforts, raises a great deal of uncertainty in the multilateral framework of wto trade negotiations and, moreover, raises a problem in relation to an informal deadline, more political than chronological, which is the forthcoming expiry of the trade promotion authority mandate, which the united states congress grants to the president to be able to negotiate on global terms. mr president, i would point out in passing that it is curious that, for an organization like the wto, which is an intergovernmental organization and a ministerial conference, everything is dependent on what a parliament decides, which is very respectable, the united states congress, but also the other parliaments of the world, starting with the european parliament, we have the right to have an opinion, without putting such conditions, guillotines, as those imposed on us at the moment by the united states congress. i am therefore announcing that next week, in the steering committee of the parliamentary assembly that we have set up between the european parliament and the interparliamentary union, we will have the opportunity to discuss and work on this subject with representatives of most of the world's parliaments, because we believe that this is a subject which concerns us all. we have not waited in parliament and particularly in the committee on international trade for the holidays to end to express our concern. i did so, on behalf of the commission, immediately after the announcement that we cannot accept a final failure of the negotiations. what we have to do is see how we get out of this crossroads and how we get the process back on track. there have been a number of contacts and bilateral meetings throughout august, and i hope the commissioner can inform us of the possibilities for progress. i also believe that the commission must try to exploit its mandate to the limit, because we have responsibilities, first of all, to defend our interests, but at the same time also to promote that a multilateral system which produces benefits for all, not only for the developed countries, but for those who have to be the main target of this negotiation - the developing countries and, above all, the least developed countries - can really play an essential role, such as the european union must have as the world's leading trading power. i therefore think it is important that the european parliament raises its voice and supports us in being able to resume, put on track and renew the objective of achieving a doha round for development and also to support the commission - which, in this respect, has not had too many vacations - which we hope can continue to work towards being able to conclude this round. there is still room; in politics there is always room, although, chronologically, the deadlines are running out, and perhaps urgency can help. mr president, we think that the commissioner's explanations are important and above all we want him to know that he has our concern, our support and our wish that this round may once again be a process towards a future of a more prosperous and more united humanity. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the oral question from our inta committee is very relevant and timely. the european parliament cannot look the other way when such important multilateral negotiations are suspended, and when they have given rise to so much hope for a more organized, more transparent, more free and more fair world trade. we refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by our group for the specific points we are discussing here. but we would like to point out that a failure of the doha round will be a failure for international trade and for the multilateral system, because it jeopardises the achievements in the form of tariff and trade preferences and would lead to the multiplication and overlapping of rules, which will make life more difficult for businesses. the real underlying reasons for this failure must be laid bare. we must denounce those inflexible states which have put obstacles in the way of the negotiations, and we must not give up, but resume the negotiations, in order to take advantage of the progress already made and bring the doha round to a successful conclusion, for the sake of a fairer globalisation and for the sake of the wto itself. the very future of this organization is at stake; the wto may come out of this crisis very badly. we must give serious thought to this, updating, modernising and democratizing the mechanisms of the wto. the european parliament must continue to play the role we have assigned to it by seriously and rigorously monitoring the situation and by helping to find a way out of the present impasse for the good of all, but above all, as has been said here, for the good of the least developed countries. we are very grateful to you, commissioner, for your presence and for the information you have given us, and you know that you are counting on this parliament, as has been said here, to unblock these negotiations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commercial sky was cloudy over geneva last july. despite the ray of hope that the g8 had thrown a few days earlier in st petersburg, some negotiators were clouded in their minds and the development round negotiations were suspended indefinitely. football matches are also suspended due to bad weather but end up being played when the fog lifts or for the storm. the current situation should not cloud the political will to continue on the path of multilateralism and development. we must continue to fight to maintain a multilateral international trading system with clear, transparent and binding rules, in which all countries, and especially developing countries, can participate fully and benefit. otherwise we would be entering the jungle of bilateralism, in which the complex web of the more than 250 bilateral treaties currently in existence would be extended, the developing countries would be penalized and darwinism, protectionism and discrimination would be encouraged. we can't turn back now. commissioner, what will happen to the commitments and agreements reached in hong kong last december, especially in the field of development? is the principle of the single undertaking still applicable in the commission's strategy? will the elimination of export subsidies be maintained for 2013? what will happen to the cotton negotiations? which countries are prepared to implement all these agreements? on the other hand, in geneva it was said that all negotiators lost. all citizens, and especially those in the most disadvantaged countries, are also losing out. what steps does the commission intend to take to explain to the public that the wto is not dead and that it remains the best instrument for regulating and promoting fair and free international trade?
madam president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and say that the separation of the daphne iii programme from the drug prevention and information programme, as requested by this parliament, was essential for the proper functioning of daphne. and it was indeed a success for the rapporteur to be able to carry out this separation, and thus the daphne programme, which is an essential instrument for supporting women's organisations fighting against gender-based violence, gains in strength and visibility. in addition to the budgetary increase mentioned above, i would like to highlight some important contributions from mrs gröner's report: firstly, the specific inclusion of human trafficking and forced prostitution as forms of violence, and the clear and forceful mention of genital mutilation and honour crimes as forms of gender-based violence with very serious health consequences. violence against women cannot be justified in any case by appealing to a tradition or a cultural practice, and i think it is also very important that children who see their mothers being assaulted be included as victims of gender-based violence. the report is also very timely in calling for the programme to pay special attention to certain groups of women, such as refugees, migrants, women living in poverty, disabled women and elderly women, as they are groups at greater risk of violence. it is also very important that the report proposes to include among the sections which can bring european added value the definition of a legal basis to combat violence against women. at the same time, concrete objectives must also be set, such as the reduction of the number of victims of violence and human trafficking by half over the next ten years. ladies and gentlemen, the european year against violence against women can certainly facilitate awareness-raising and the exchange of good practice, and it is therefore very important that this commemoration should also be supported by daphne.
madam president, one and a half years ago spain was at the forefront of europe's fight against gender-based violence by adopting a comprehensive law against such violence. and yet, so far this year, we have already had 51 deaths from this scourge, from this type of violence. this does not, of course, allow us to be satisfied and satisfied. the law was necessary, we said, but unfortunately, as we can see, a law is not enough. the essence of this kind of violence is rooted deep in the minds and cultures of those who suffer it, and it takes not a year, not a single piece of paper, to change this. that is why daphne, which aims to combat all forms of violence, is a fundamental tool and we cannot and must not abandon it. there are many forms of violence against women that must be combated: human trafficking, physical and psychological attacks, practices such as clitoral ablation or the feminization of poverty, among many others. all of them call for urgency and for resources which, however many they may be or seem, will never be enough. and so we must once again call on governments to wake up from their european lethargy, to understand that it is not possible to do more with less money and that, on the issue of violence in general and gender-based violence in particular, we cannot call for major action if we do not also provide the means and resources necessary to be able to carry it out. giving daphne resources and political relevance is not a mere bureaucratic process. its ultimate goal, let us not forget, is to save lives. and although, as with the spanish law against gender violence, it is not enough, it is essential.
madam president, first of all we should welcome the proposal put forward by mrs gröner and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which is driving this specific programme, because it is recognizing the scale of the problem and it is setting out specific measures to prevent and combat gender-based violence. we must give women the means and resources to escape from a reality which, year after year, takes the lives of hundreds of women in all the countries of the union. violence against women and children is a violation of basic fundamental rights and, moreover, we cannot forget that this violation is even greater when we speak of certain groups, such as minorities and people living in poverty or the disabled. the alarming figures of the victims of this violence force us to carry out a genuine social rebellion, because we cannot forget that behind the statistics and the numbers there is the story of thousands of women who endure daily the subjugation of those who mistreat them for the simple fact of being women. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. the spanish government has launched a law against gender violence, with a clear commitment to fight this social scourge. while it is true that the law cannot end the reality of women's suffering overnight, it does provide important support. this is the path that must be followed in the rest of the union, with decisive action and with the conviction that to stand by at this moment means turning our backs on thousands of women who are waiting for a response from us.
madam president of the republic of finland, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, the european parliament, which has always called for a greater presence of women in politics, is pleased to welcome you here today. we salute the first woman elected - and even re-elected - to the highest office in the republic of finland. your re-election, madam president, earlier this year has marked in a significant way the centenary of women's suffrage in finland, which was the first country in the world to grant women the right to vote. perhaps that was one of the reasons why, a century later, a woman is presiding over the country. i would like to congratulate you on behalf of all members for your personal commitment in many international forums, where you have put your experience and influence at the service of causes which are of the utmost importance to us as members of the european parliament. i would remind you that in 2000 you took over the joint presidency of the millennium summit and that you subsequently chaired the world commission on the social dimension of globalisation, a subject which is of great relevance today - the social dimension of globalisation - and which is affecting europe in an increasingly important way. you have also worked hard for sustainable development, respect for human rights and the rights of minorities, something which is unfortunately also very relevant today in some countries of the union. there is no doubt about it: you are a woman committed to her time, to her world, to a more humane world and to the construction of europe. your country also holds the presidency of the union. many commentators, at the beginning of this presidency, predicted that it would be a 'transition' presidency, awaiting events to unlock the constitutional debate. but history doesn't accept transitions, nor does it allow us to stop the clock, nor does it allow us to wait for other things to happen. the story puts us in front of a very busy schedule for the next few months. history has brought us face to face with our responsibility in the middle east, a region which has suffered another war and to which our union will try to restore peace. i would like to acknowledge that when hostilities broke out, the finnish presidency reacted swiftly and vigorously. and i welcome the attitude of your foreign minister, his frank and direct speech, which has given the european union a voluntary impulse that has fortunately ended with a courageous decision: to send stabilization forces to the ground. you were the first to speak of a european immigration policy. tampere has gone down in history as the place where, seven years ago, europe first raised the problem of immigration. we probably could not imagine then that the problem would become as serious as it is today, with waves of desperate people trying to reach the part of europe that is closest to them, with hundreds of bodies washing up on the beaches. here too, europe's action is urgent. you have put political will into action in tampere, but unfortunately it has not gone very far. even the fight against illegal immigration, in which we had made some progress, is now facing new reluctance. history has meant that it will be another finnish presidency that has the opportunity to give new impetus to a policy which is no longer an emergency response to an exceptional event, but a daily and permanent response to a structural problem which will become increasingly serious. on the other hand, you in finland are pioneers in research and innovation: you have been able to transform your production structure to move from old industries to new and pioneering activities in the field of communication and knowledge. you have also made decisions on energy policy: you have democratically opted for nuclear energy for reasons of security and diversification. this is a lively subject, hotly debated in europe, and this parliament will certainly have a lot to say about it. for all these reasons, for bulgaria and romania, which are already on our horizon, for legislative issues such as reach or the services directive, this will not be a 'transition' presidency. he has too many things ahead of him to resolve for us to afford to sit around waiting for others to decide for us. we therefore welcome the country's first authority, the president, to this parliament, madam president, confident that we can find some guidelines for action in his words. you can be sure that parliament welcomes it with great affection and optimism. thank you very much, madam president. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the republic of finland. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you warmly for inviting me to speak to you in this european parliament. and i also thank you, mr president, for your beautiful introduction. we met last time when you visited finland at the beginning of june, and you are welcome back to our northern country at any time. directly elected representatives are an important part of democracy, both in the european union and in its member states. your influence is considerable: you have the opportunity to contribute effectively to the objectives of the union as a whole in your daily work. finland, as the presidency, wants to work closely with the european parliament. this week too, several of our government ministers are here ready to talk to you, and i believe that the discussion will be very useful. the importance of european cooperation and integration in promoting peace, stability and prosperity on our continent is clear and the results are impressive. we operate on a common set of values. these values are freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and commitment to the rule of law. each member state has its own responsibility to implement the values, but often we do better together. the european union, united, is also a much stronger international actor than any of the member states. the international role of the european union has been considerably strengthened in recent years. the eu is a visible and significant player in the field of development and crisis management. international security threats are increasingly non-military. climate change, pollution, natural disasters, infectious diseases, and economic uncertainty are threats that cannot be countered militarily. we therefore seek to promote multilateralism and the establishment of international agreements to counter common threats and dangers. international crime is a concern for all. close cooperation between member states in combating the threat of terrorism is essential, as is effective cooperation with third countries. the link between human rights, development and security is essential for comprehensive security and its global consolidation. the european union's security strategy is based on this premise, which was adopted at the united nations. we can make a difference by our actions in creating a more just world and in the achievement of the un millennium development goals. the union's strength lies in the wide range of instruments at its disposal, from humanitarian aid to agricultural, trade, development and environmental policies. eu development policy can also be seen as part of eu security policy. the eu is the largest development and trade partner of developing countries and the world's largest donor of development aid. i hope and believe that the eu institutions will reach a decision on development finance in good cooperation, in order to ensure uninterrupted eu funding and, in particular, the eu's multifaceted action, also from the beginning of 2007. there is a link between development and trade. it is not always automatically positive, but it requires political will and skill. trade can thus be brought to bear on the economic growth, poverty reduction and social development of developing countries. but developing countries themselves must also be prepared to implement national reforms, promote good governance and crack down on corruption. market access alone may not be enough for a fairer globalisation, but special measures to strengthen the capacity of the poorest countries are also needed to support them. a joint meeting of trade and development ministers will be held in october to secure a strong eu commitment to the world trade organisation's aid for trade recommendations and their rapid implementation. the same broad and varied treatment is required for the cross-border movement of people. i believe that this is already being discussed in finland at the lahti summit. i also believe that we are ready to move forward with the decision-making process in december. human rights are a sensitive subject: we have accepted their legal and ethical bindingness, but their consolidation in practical policy is a very challenging task. the european union's human rights policy must, however, be based on the same rules in all parts of the world. fortunately, we also have good partners, first and foremost, of course, the united nations. in europe, the council of europe is an important partner for us, whose expertise we must make better use of. the eu's accession to the european convention on human rights remains an important objective. the report by the prime minister of luxembourg, jean-claude juncker, contains excellent proposals for closer cooperation between the two organisations, but the implementation of this report needs to be worked on. the union has become increasingly concerned both with conflict prevention and with crisis management itself. you'll have to allow me to be a little nostalgic. when i was finland's foreign minister and i took the initiative with my swedish colleague lena hjelm-wallén to develop the eu's crisis management capacity, we certainly did not dare to hope for very rapid progress. but it didn't. the initiative was adopted by the treaty of amsterdam and today the cornerstone of the union's rapidly evolving crisis management policy is the development and effective coordination of military and civilian activities. the most sustainable way to resolve conflicts is to engage widely. for example, the need to send an eu crisis management team to the democratic republic of congo in support of the un has already been demonstrated when violent clashes broke out after the first round of elections. i hope that the situation will remain stable so that the campaign and the second round of elections can proceed peacefully and with respect for democracy. after the elections, the country must move quickly into a phase of reconstruction and development. the eu is already working to reform the country's security sector. the european union is also actively working to resolve the difficult situation in darfur. the union is the largest contributor to the african union peacekeeping mission amis. the decisions to strengthen the peacekeeping mission and transfer it to the un must be implemented swiftly, because the human suffering in the region must not be allowed to continue. the european union's international action is therefore increasingly expected. the union as a whole is a strong actor, as the situation in lebanon has shown. the eu has been active in promoting a political solution, first in the formulation of un security council resolution 1701 and now in its full implementation. it is, however, essential that the parties remain committed to the implementation of the resolution. the union's determined action has strengthened confidence in the eu as a mediator of peace in the region. we cannot of course do this alone, but the european union can play a very important role. the member states of the european union have taken on a major role in the un extended mission unifil, which supports the fragile ceasefire and the efforts to achieve lasting peace throughout the region. the decision to assume responsibility at the extraordinary general affairs and external relations council on 25 august was a turning point in the strengthening of unifil. the member states were able to take decisions which are very demanding at national level. the union's member states have committed themselves to deploying around 7 000 peacekeepers to the unifil operation. the entire un operation is being led by europeans, first in france and then in italy. it is important, however, that the range of countries sending troops to the operation is wider than the european union. this will ensure the confidence of the parties in the execution of the operation. the situation in lebanon is a whole which is not only a security problem but also a political, economic and social problem. we must support the strengthening of the lebanese government, its extension of power to the whole of lebanon and its assumption of responsibility for the reconstruction process. the total amount of assistance from the european commission and the member states to improve the difficult humanitarian situation in lebanon has already exceeded eur 300 million. the conference on the humanitarian situation in lebanon and also in the palestinian territories held in stockholm at the end of last week was a real success. the amount of aid granted and new commitments to provide aid is substantial. in addition to immediate humanitarian aid, the union will have a major role to play in reconstruction and environmental remediation. lasting peace in the middle east requires a solution to the conflict between israel and the palestinians. the eu played a key role in the development of the roadmap and now it must take the lead in promoting a comprehensive peace plan. everyone must commit to the two-state model of security and viability. trust also needs to be built at the level of civil society, not just between governments, which is of course important in itself. i believe that if women are strongly involved in the peace process, the chances of a lasting solution will increase. i have already worked with unifem, the un women's fund, which supports dialogue between israeli and palestinian women. we will also be raising this issue at the next un general assembly week. you will be coming to the plenary tomorrow to discuss the middle east in a broad way. it is essential that the european union continues to be determined in the pursuit of stability and security throughout the middle east. the middle east is our neighborhood. eu representatives have taken the initiative in negotiations on iran's nuclear programme. iran must comply with the un security council resolution and seize the opportunity for genuine dialogue now. in the coming weeks and months, the eu must continue its vigorous and comprehensive diplomacy across the region. the united states is a key partner for the eu in this, not to mention the other permanent members of the security council. the destinies of russia and the rest of europe have been intertwined for centuries. today russia is a strategic partner of the eu. the russian leadership has repeatedly stated that its european choice is irreversible. the eu and russia have agreed to cooperate on a wide range of issues, including trade and human rights, which will benefit both parties and also support the development of democracy and stability in russia. recently, energy issues have been particularly high on the agenda. it is good that the eu is seeking a common approach to energy issues, even though the choice of energy sources is a national matter. however, there are many areas where cooperation is essential. the eu's external relations must be more closely linked to energy policy so that the union's external relations can support energy security. i believe that this is the area where the union's positive interdependence with russia can be particularly evident. this eu-russia energy dialogue must be based on trust. we must try to find common interests. we must also all work together to combat climate change by reducing emissions, conserving energy, developing cleaner technologies and promoting the use of renewable energy sources. we know that the energy resources available today are not limitless. the eu must also seek to establish a broad cooperation with russia in the environmental sector. the union and russia have a comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement, complemented by road maps in four mutually agreed areas. these are the economy, freedom, justice and security, external security and research, education and culture. the latter are not insignificant areas of cooperation, although they do not appear in public so often. for example, student exchanges and getting to know each other's cultures are practical ways of getting to know each other better. the eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement is due to expire at the end of next year. our aim is to be able to agree at the eu-russia summit in november to open negotiations with russia to renew the treaty arrangements. i also believe that the renewal of the northern dimension as a common policy of the eu, russia, norway and iceland will further strengthen our relations with these partner countries. the northern dimension focuses in particular on environmental cooperation and social and health issues. the enlargement of the union has contributed to stability and security in europe and has brought economic benefits to all member states, old and new. successful enlargement also strengthens the eu's international role. i believe that the european union must remain open to all european countries which fulfil the conditions for membership. the development the countries of central europe, turkey, croatia and the western balkans are clear examples of the strong incentive for reform from the perspective of eu membership, although of course the ultimate objective of change in each country must be the desire to improve the daily life and security of its citizens. people also value membership through their everyday experiences. the december european council will hold a general debate on enlargement. we will then look together at how the enlargement process is being carried forward. as you know, the european council held a debate in june on the capacity of the union to receive refugees. the result was that no new criteria for membership should be set, but the existing ones should be strictly adhered to. it is in the interests of both the european union and the applicant countries that accession to the union should only take place when the applicant country is able to assume the obligations of membership and to fulfil the conditions of membership. we must, for our part, honour the commitments we have made to the applicant countries and ensure our capacity to welcome new member states. it is also important to remember what is not included in the requirements. we share common values, but we're not trying to be one culture. on the contrary, the richness and strength of europe lies in its cultural diversity. different political views are a natural part of europe. you and your political groups are a unique example of cross-border cooperation between national political groups. a multiform union needs a multi-dimensional parliamentarism. i have spoken to you at length and i know that we all have a busy autumn, both in this parliament and in our presidency and in the other member states. this week, the eu-asia summit on asem is being held in finland. the asem has already become a de facto cooperation between two regional groups, and working with an integrated union has also encouraged closer coordination between asian countries in preparing matters. i think it is clear to all of us that 'global challenges joint responses' is our common principle and objective, and is also asem's motto. i would like to conclude by saying that my visit to strasbourg was for two good reasons. you are the second, the first in which i am involved, and i will also give you the second: i am also going to visit the council of europe. i hope that my own activities will also help to promote the broad european cooperation that i have proposed to you. i thank you for the opportunity to speak to you and to take up your busy time, and i wish you from the bottom of my heart the best of the autumn session and good results. (parliament agreed to the request)
thank you very much, madam president, for your words. you will have seen from the applause you have received that parliament has followed your speech with great interest. i must say that i have rarely seen the chamber so full as today, and that too is a sign of the interest that the european parliament is taking in the tasks that the finnish presidency is going to carry out. we wish your government well and thank you once again for your visit. thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the house. (applause) i would like to thank
the council is to present the preliminary draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2007, as provided for in the agenda.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the members who have drawn up this report on such an important subject, which is at the heart of the process of european integration. it is a very positive report, because the great political families of this parliament and the vast majority of members have managed to remain united in a common discourse and commitment. i think it is very appropriate to say today, once again, that for the vast majority of members of this house, open markets and the european social model are part of an indissoluble whole, and will remain so in the future. a reasoned and reasonable report; a reasoned report, looking back and seeing that we have achieved with our model the greatest space and the most important stage and of the greatest economic and social progress in europe, and a reasonable report because it allows us to look to the future not only on the defensive, but on the offensive, to win the great challenges of globalisation. and it is also important to remember that the added value that the union brings to this model has been underlined, in which europe obviously does not have the ambition to take over the tasks carried out by the member states, but it does have the precise legal titles to complete and promote precise actions that make it possible to achieve the community objectives of employment and social welfare. we have many instruments, including legislation, which enable us to defend reasonably basic objectives and fundamental rights of workers and to avoid social dumping. we are calling for a new globalisation for the whole world, without social dumping accompanied by instruments for worker's conditions to deteriorate. the union must prevent this from happening within its own borders under the same conditions. mr president, i would like to conclude by saying that i am sure that our reformed model has a future, but this certainty is accompanied by another: even economic europe will have no future if it does not respect its social model.
mr president, this report we are debating today on the european social model for the future, of which i would like to highlight the consensus reached between the two major political groups - and i would like to expressly congratulate my colleague josé silva and also proinsias de rossa on the effort made - is good news, because it is intended to contribute to solidarity, greater social cohesion, a better quality of life and a more sustainable future for social security systems in europe. there is no doubt that the europe of the people to which we all aspire requires ever more coordinated policies, which will enable us to meet the new challenges we face every day. for example, the demographic change, which we have discussed here this afternoon, with a longer life expectancy, is undoubtedly forcing us to adopt new policies, not only in health care but also in social and health care, which will allow the extension of life expectancy to be linked to the quality of life. full employment, temporary work, youth unemployment and female unemployment require an ambitious employment policy, which is committed to job stability and security. the same can be said of the incorporation of women into working life, with the need for innovative forms of reconciliation and flexibility of working hours, and of immigration, which i consider more a challenge than a problem. this summer, more than ever, we are living the drama of immigration in my country, which is causing serious human problems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think it would be important to propose a european immigration policy, and it is important to say today that we are talking about the european social model, because the impact of this phenomenon throughout europe will have a great influence on the european social model. i therefore believe that it is very appropriate that we continue to work for this european social model, taking into account all the challenges we face, especially the challenge of immigration.
vice-president of the commission. as you know, new member states have to ensure a high level of border control upon accession. as far as the lifting of internal border control is concerned, new member states are evaluated by experts of the member states and of the commission, whether they fulfil, amongst other preconditions, the high schengen standards of external border control. in january 2006, the evaluation of the non-sas related acquis of the new member states started, and a first assessment of their preparation will be available for the council in december. i will be reporting to the ministers. with respect to illegal immigration, the commission outlined the areas it considers to be future priorities in a communication which, as you know, was adopted on 19 july. the communication in particular explores how to further secure external borders, for instance by introducing intelligence-led ‘e-borders’ management and addresses the possible creation of an automated entry-exit system, the issue of regularisations and the need to tackle employment of illegally resident third country nationals. in addition, i would like to underline that in july the commission adopted a proposal on establishing a mechanism for the creation of rapid border intervention teams. this mechanism, that will strengthen the solidarity between member states and the community, will allow member states which face extraordinary obstacles in controlling their external borders to make use of the expertise and manpower of border guards of other member states on a temporary basis.
mr president, the events of the last few days seem to be showing that the european union is not prepared for waves of immigrants from areas close to the union. i would point out that with the accession of bulgaria and romania next year we will have a new maritime border of the european union on the black sea, which is home to states such as ukraine, moldova, russia, georgia, armenia and turkey, and which opens up the whole of asia to us. does the european commission intend to extend to the black sea a similar system to that which it is beginning to set up in the atlantic, in order to prevent an influx of immigrants from the asian continent into the european union?
member of the commission. i think the answer is very simple. i could perhaps say in one sentence that the commission has sent a warning letter concerning the possible poor application by the spanish authorities of the amended directive on the assessment of the effects of public and private projects on the environment in the case of the construction of the m30 motorway in madrid. this letter was sent by the commission on 10 april 2006 in accordance with article 226 of the treaty and spain replied on 13 july 2006. we are currently assessing the response provided by the spanish authorities and will shortly complete this assessment.
madam president, commissioner, i hope that the european commission's decision, in view of the response given by the competent spanish authorities, will be swift. i would point out that the commission's letter of formal notice made it very clear that, in its view, the content of directive 85/337, which makes environmental impact assessment essential for this type of public works, had not been respected. and since it had not been respected by those who do these public works, the legitimate interests and rights of the citizens of madrid, that is, of the european citizens of madrid, were being harmed. however, the madrid city council continues to work day and night despite the warning of the european commission. it is therefore essential that, in view of the reply, this decision be taken immediately, otherwise the rights will be violated in an almost irreversible way, and that is what we must try to avoid.
before we move on to the next item on the agenda, i must make a communication to the house. you will recall that we have sometimes had disagreements on the interpretation of rule 166 of our rules of procedure and that some members felt that the presidency was not making proper use of it, as it did not allow the floor for points of order which did not relate to the subject under discussion at the time. article 166 does not clearly specify whether the allowance to speak on a point of order must refer to the subject under debate or to the agenda for that day, or whether it may refer to any other subject. however, in the president's view, it should be common sense to say that concessions of the floor could only be made on the basis of the subject under discussion and not on any other. however, in order to settle the controversy which had arisen at certain points in the chamber, i asked the committee on constitutional affairs for its opinion, which, in its reply, proposed the following interpretation of rule 166: 'requests for the floor to comment on the observance of the rules of procedure must refer to the item on the agenda currently being debated. the president may grant the floor on another matter at an appropriate time, for example, after the conclusion of the debate on an item on the agenda or before the sitting is adjourned. it is therefore clear from now on that the correct interpretation is the one indicated by common sense and that rule 166 can only be invoked to make observations on compliance with the rules of procedure relating to the item on the agenda which is being discussed at that moment. i would remind you that the interpretation of the committee on constitutional affairs is deemed to have been adopted if it is not challenged before the minutes of this sitting are adopted.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in the middle east.
mr president, it is possible that the crisis in the middle east could force the way out of the european crisis by means of a very harsh pedagogy, a pedagogy of catastrophe. because this contact with the real world of the middle east through the leadership of a multinational force is very important; it shows that the european union is no longer just an ngo glorified by humanitarian aid in the middle east, but that it has a political commitment to the region, which is very important, because it is a genuine and strategic commitment in the middle east, where peace is fundamental to the security of europe. the courage of countries like france, italy and spain is undoubtedly going to put the future of europe's foreign policy in the world at stake and the future of the european crisis will depend to a certain extent on this. it is clear that the unilateralism of the united states is absolutely discredited throughout the arab world and in much of the world in general. lebanon can be a successful test case for an international intervention that guarantees peace in gaza and the west bank and a peace agreement. we welcome the commission's and the council's position on the palestinian government of concentration and its pragmatic reaction, but we are at the same time concerned about what is happening on the ground: the maintenance of israeli settlements in the west bank and the announcement yesterday of the construction of 700 new homes in these territories, in contradiction with the road map.
mr president, let us be clear: prevention, management and now post-war reconstruction would have required europe to have the instruments to do so successfully. we don't have them yet. we do not have a constitution in force, a constitution which includes a foreign minister, the possibility of taking decisions by qualified majority and the council entrusting a group of countries with the task which some member states are now going to carry out. but we have an opportunity ahead of us. the opportunity that comes the day after a brutal war. italy, france, spain and other countries of the union have committed themselves to participating in a strengthened unifil, whose main task will be to enforce un security council resolution 1701. but politically the fundamental thing in this situation is to change the orientation in the middle east. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict in iraq. what a difference between the soldiers who occupied iraq and the european soldiers who are now enforcing international law and restoring peace. let us not forget that this difference is also based on values: the values of the european union. we don't have to discover the mediterranean. we have the barcelona process and we have to use it to the full. we must imbue the middle east conflict with the spirit of the euro-mediterranean process, of cooperation, solidarity, dialogue between cultures and peoples in order to establish and maintain peace. part of that process is the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. i shall have the honour of being part of the delegation you are sending to the area, chaired by mrs saïfi. and it's an achievement we have to highlight. we must defend democracy in lebanon and we must also be able to push for a new international conference, based on the spirit of the successful madrid conference.
mr president, if many of us see an opportunity for european union at this moment, it is not only because of our pro-european convictions, but also because of our political convictions. it is only when the european union speaks and acts with one voice and lives up to its weight in the world, lives up to its commitments, that it can be truly effective. if not, it's not. we have therefore an historic obligation to seize this moment with the instruments we have, although it is true that we should not have all of them. it is time for politics, time for the european union to put its full weight and moral authority into finding a solution that guarantees israel's security without the price being the lives and freedom of its neighbours. it is time for european unity to demand an end to the occupation, to support the authority of the united nations also over the state of israel, which, by the way, owes its very existence to the united nations. it is time for unity in military action within unifil, which, if it is to be truly european, and there are instruments to make it so, without the need for a constitution, will gain in legitimacy and political weight. i hope that out of this miserable war can come a lasting peace.
president of the council. mr president, one element of this youth pact is that it will improve the education and social inclusion of young people and their transition to working life. it is therefore very important, and this autumn we are also going to support a solution which will strengthen such multi-professional skills, so that the transition of young people from education to working life will also be easier, since it is one of the threshold stages. of course, the reconciliation of work and family life is still a separate issue, but all these issues have their own link with the competitiveness strategy, the lisbon strategy.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the readmission and return of illegal immigrants is one of the key elements of the union's immigration policy, particularly in the context of the overall approach to immigration. the council has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively and that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. as regards the period after the june european council, the honourable member is invited to refer to the euro-african ministerial conference on migration and development, which was held in rabat on 10 and 11 july, with the active support of spain and france. the conference adopted an action plan, the third part of which deals in particular with the fight against illegal immigration and the return of illegal immigrants. all the countries participating in the conference underlined their commitment to the rapid implementation of the action plan. on 17 july, the council adopted conclusions on immigration, reaffirming the need to combat illegal immigration effectively at union level. the conclusions also noted the importance of other migration routes, particularly in the union's eastern and south-eastern neighbourhoods, and the ongoing preparations for the euro-african ministerial conference on migration and development, which libya has promised to host. on 19 july, the commission published a communication on policy priorities for combating illegal immigration of thirdcountry nationals. the communication also addresses issues related to return and readmission. it was presented to the council on 24 july and will be examined by the council at a later date. the council is currently discussing a proposal for a directive on common standards and procedures for returning illegally staying third-country nationals to the member states. the readmission negotiations will continue in accordance with the guidelines and competences agreed by the council. the commission and the european union border agency also reported on the implementation of the key actions of the comprehensive approach at the council meeting on 24 july.
madam president-in-office of the council, thank you very much for your reply, but i would like to remind you that, despite all these agreements, illegal immigration through the canary islands continues to increase. at the moment, almost a thousand immigrants arrive in the canary islands every day. the reception centres are overcrowded, there is no possibility of returning migrants to their countries of origin and the commitments made by 16 states have not been fulfilled, except in the case of your country, where finland, together with italy and portugal, has already sent a naval unit. but, in the end, all these measures, which look good on paper, are not fulfilled when the time comes. we are facing a veritable flood of immigrants, with alarm from the civilian population and with concern for the whole of the european union, since these immigrants are not entering the canary islands, they are entering the territory of the european union, with consequences for the labour markets of the same.
president of the council. mr president, restrictions on air transport and travel, which of course concern in particular luggage, are not only affecting trade but also a very large number of ordinary passengers. this is why it is so important that terrorism and aviation security experts work together to find the right level of protection: adequate means to protect citizens from terrorist attacks, but at the same time a level that is appropriate to ensure that normal travel is also possible.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision to send troops to the eu crisis management operation is in any case up to the member states concerned. the forces shall be mobilised on a voluntary basis in accordance with the relevant national decisions. the common operational costs of european union military crisis management operations shall be financed in accordance with article 28 (3) of the treaty on european union. this paragraph 3 states that the operational expenditure resulting from the implementation of these provisions shall also be charged to the budget of the european communities, except for expenditure resulting from operations having military or defence implications and cases where the council, acting unanimously, decides otherwise. it also states in paragraph 3 that, unless the council unanimously decides otherwise, expenditure not charged to the budget of the european communities is to be charged to the member states in accordance with a scale of gross national income. this is in accordance with article 28 of the treaty, and the other costs are borne by the member states sending troops at national level.
president of the council. mr president, as i said, the launch of an operation is decided unanimously in the european union and the member states decide on an operation by operation. the group of the day is simultaneously a larger whole. it remains to be seen how the situation raised by the questioner will be dealt with.
president of the council. mr president, these duty teams, which are on duty at any time, are organized in such a way that they form a well-functioning whole, and the coordination mentioned by the honourable member has therefore been carried out since the preparatory stage.
the next item is the report by mr bastiaan belder, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on eu-china relations (2005/2161 (ini)) (a6-0257/2006). i have received a request from the socialist group, pursuant to rule 168, to refer back to committee mr belder's report on eu-china relations. does anyone wish to give a reason for this request from the socialist group?
now that the request has been substantiated, does anyone wish to intervene in favour of it? mr. speroni, calm your impatience, please. according to the rules of procedure there is a vote for and a vote against. now i'm asking if anyone would like to take the floor in favor.
the word is for the counter-turn, mr tajani.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i too welcome the fact that we are finally having this debate. i think it would have been a mistake and a wrong message to return the report to the commission, especially given the importance attached to the sovereignty of this house. it is clear that china is making great progress and that modernisation is now becoming more advanced, but it must also be borne in mind that this accelerated and rapid pace of modernisation has its risks from a social and environmental point of view. in this sense, the european union must contribute to the development of the positive aspects of this modernisation and not feed into the negative aspects or the risks of this process. that is why, in the current context in which we are discussing eu-china relations, we must be very clear. friends need to be frank; it is with friends that you want to have good relations and with whom you also need to be very sincere. in this case, i think we need to do it by very clearly marking out what values we believe are fundamental to having a good relationship, a fruitful relationship. some of them have already been mentioned, but i would like to mention them again, to make it clear and unequivocal that we are in favour of the prohibition of the death penalty and that we consider it to be a universal value, that we are in favour of democratisation and freedom of expression, including on the internet, and freedom of cultural and religious expression, that we condemn the systematisation of torture and the existence of reeducation camps for detainees and that we consider it essential to respect the rights of peoples such as tibet and, in this connection, we call on the council to develop the policy applicable now and to accept the sending of a special envoy. with regard to the arms embargo, we have said many times that we cannot and will not accept the lifting of the arms embargo unless there is a solution, a justification or a clear assumption of responsibility for the events in tiananmen; unless these events are clarified, we cannot accept the lifting of the embargo. finally, with regard to the one-china policy, i agree that this must be the objective and that this is the right framework for negotiating china-taiwan relations, but it must be between democratic entities. if not, then the one-china policy can have negative consequences.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left will vote against this report, because if it is intended to influence a sensitive subject such as human rights, it is going in the wrong direction. this error is made explicit in paragraph 75 of the resolution, where it is proposed that the european union and the member states be urged to establish a consensual policy with the united states of america to establish a strategic relationship with china. i wonder what issues can be agreed with the united states of america: the death penalty, respect for international law, the demilitarisation of security, climate change? i mean, are we going to go hand in hand with the united states of america to establish that consensual relationship - the european union and the united states - to tell the chinese what to do in these matters? i think it's a terrible mistake, it's just going in the opposite direction. and what is more, the report also intends to tell the chinese - the chinese government, the chinese authorities - what policy they should pursue in their region, with which countries - with north korea, with iran - on what principles, as if the people's republic of china could be told, or would be willing to accept being told, what it should do. as if the european union were being told by the people's republic of china what kind of relations, what kind of policy we should have. this is not serious. we have to put it in context of which country we are talking about. we are talking about a country with 1.2 billion people, nine and a half million square kilometres, and in 1910 it was a feudal society. if you don't contextualize this report, we're going to be beating the crap out of you. i also believe that what this report distills - and i conclude, ladies and gentlemen - is a purely economic interest. that's all i know. everything else is just words. so tomorrow our group will vote no, because i think we have gone in the wrong direction. to influence the people's republic of china, we must do so on the basis of a clear autonomy of the european union and not on the basis of its ties to the united states of america.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to say that we all agree on the strategic importance of relations with china and i think we all share our concern about the situation of human rights and public freedoms. there is no difference in demanding that china make rapid and clear progress on these issues. we are not here in a competition to see who is the strongest defender of human rights, because i sincerely believe that on this matter we are united in this house. but we must also recognize that china faces enormous challenges, political, social, economic and environmental challenges; it must of course face the consequences of its rapid growth and, at the same time, it must also respond to the growing expectations of its citizens in the area of freedoms, of course, education, health and many other areas. we cooperate with china in many of these areas, with the human and material resources of the european union, to contribute to china's progress and, when problems arise, as has happened in connection with some trade issues in the textile and footwear sectors, we demand reciprocity but, at the same time, we maintain firmness and dialogue to solve these problems, because we are also interested, of course, in being able to enter that market and that our products are respected on terms of reciprocity. but i sincerely wonder if this report helps us to strengthen relations, if it is the right way for us to be able to influence more in these transformation processes, if it helps us to be united to have a greater influence, or divides us, and if it strengthens us to be able to play an active role in china's transformation process, or weakens us.
member of the commission. mr president, this debate was very timely and it has provided me with food for thought for the eu-china summit in helsinki. i should like to add that the vast majority of subjects raised tonight will also feature clearly on the summit agenda and i will report back to you on that. let me make a general point on the relationship between trade and human rights, which is a central theme of this report. i am not sure whether specific linkages are desirable or feasible, but i would argue that this is an inevitable connection, insofar as china’s opening is strongly predicated on its wto accession, which, apart from frequently raised important issues like intellectual property rights, involves also an overhaul of the chinese legal system, with an emphasis on the rule of law. it must be said that real progress has been made. that is fundamental in moving forward in many of the human rights questions raised today and it is even happening almost by stealth. let me come back to some specific points that have been raised tonight. firstly, on tibet, we share the concerns expressed by the european parliament regarding the human rights situation in tibet and in particular the preservation of the cultural, religious and linguistic identity of the tibetan people. we have regularly addressed the issue of tibet in the framework of the eu-china bilateral dialogue on human rights, as well as at the highest political level, including summits. as part of this overall policy vis-à-vis tibet, for many years we have been asking for the establishment of a direct dialogue between the dalai lama and the chinese authorities, as that is the only realistic way to find a peaceful and lasting solution to the question. we have therefore taken note of the talks between the envoys of the dalai lama and the representatives of china. let me also say a word on taiwan. we have been consistent throughout in urging the two sides to resolve their issues through a peaceful dialogue. in this regard we have also noted some recent positive developments in the cross-strait situation. we have to recognise that there are new chinese efforts to restart discussions with chinese and taiwanese opposition politicians. flights across the straits have resumed, but an inclusive dialogue with all parties in taiwan is also needed. this is important. let me also make a point concerning our bilateral relationship and the relationship with the united states of america. as mr lambsdorff said, it is important to talk about china to the us about common concerns, for example on open markets and human rights, because we can achieve more together vis-à-vis china. however, it is also clear that a strategic dialogue with the us, which we have at official level, does not mean that we have to agree right across the board. on the long-standing issue of the arms embargo, it is true that we are willing to continue working towards a possible lifting of the embargo, on the basis of our joint statement of 2004, the eu-china summit and the subsequent european council conclusions. however, at the same time, we have left china with no doubt as to the importance of progress on human rights in order to create a more positive atmosphere for lifting the embargo. we have also made clear our commitment to ensure that lifting the embargo would not lead to any substantive change in the strategic balance in the asian region and that the national security of friendly and allied countries would be fully taken into account. so, again, this is one of those issues that is very important. on the very specific and important issue of shoes, let me say that on 30 august 2006 the commission adopted a proposal to impose anti-dumping duties on certain leather shoes from china and vietnam. reflecting the finding that dumping exists and eu producers are suffering harm, we have proposed a duty of 16.5% for china and 10% for vietnam for certain leather shoes. this proposal now passes to the member states, which have one month in which to consider it for adoption. that is the situation at present. on the sectoral dialogues, my services produce regular updates and these are on our websites. a further update will be available shortly. i should like to close with two general statements. again, as i said at the start, we are committed to human rights, social and economic rights, which include in particular freedom of expression, religion, association and protection of the rights of minorities. i should also like to say that the death penalty is one of those questions continually being addressed. i should also like to re-emphasise what i said before about the falun gong. finally, in response to mr brok, and as i said at the beginning, we need china to become a responsible member of the international community, but more than just a stakeholder: it needs to be a positive and an active contributing partner. it is a very important member of the international community, being a permanent member of the security council. all of that will feature prominently in our communication, which will be available in the autumn. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mrs carmen fraga estévez, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on launching a debate on a community approach to the labelling systems for fishery products (2005/2189 (ini)) (a6-0219/2006).
the first thing i would like to stress, as rapporteur for this report, is the indisputable role that a credible label or certification can play, among the measures that can be taken, in trying to ensure sustainable fishing. however, the matter has been on the european commission's table since the 1990s, and until now no one has decided to tackle it. in the meantime, with the market becoming increasingly aware of environmental issues, private promoters of fisheries eco-labels are making their move, causing total confusion among consumers, at best, and more than likely discrediting the system in general, because when you can apply a surplus value to a product by saying it is ecological, without having to prove it, the way to fraud is served. i am one of those who have on many occasions reminded the commission that it should address this matter as soon as possible. that is why many of us were disappointed when the commission finally published this communication, a document which was almost devoid of content, lacked analysis, made no commitments and did not provide any criteria or guidelines to follow. it is clear that this result was achieved in less than ten years and that the commission is completely overwhelmed by the reality of the attractive eco-label market and the many and varied interests which support it, some of them very much to be applauded, others not so much. in this connection, i would like to recall that, in his appearance before the committee on fisheries on the occasion of his dismissal, former commissioner fischler confessed that the unfinished business of his mandate had been that he had not been able to deal with a regulation on eco-labelling and that, i quote, 'due to the many pressures received'. the commission has also proposed that the criteria for defining sustainable fishery products be established in a sound manner. but we must do it because other interested parties are doing it for us and many are doing it for their own interests. the commission is not alone in this task either, because it already has guidelines on this from the fao and discussions in a wide variety of international forums, including the world trade organization. governments, ngos, private companies and fishermen also contributed their views. and in this report, with the invaluable and varied contributions of many colleagues, including those from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the european parliament is also making its contribution to defining the lines that will allow consumers, politicians and the fishing industry to become more involved in the sustainability of fisheries resources. we believe that, on the whole, a community labelling system must be consistent with the existing guidelines of international bodies, that it must not lead to any discrimination, that it must not create obstacles to trade, particularly for the least developed countries, and that it must be a weapon in the fight against illegal fishing by preventing access to markets. as regards its internal functioning, the committee on fisheries considers that, irrespective of the fact that there may be one or more labels, which are always voluntary, the system should be unique and promoted by the european union, which should establish its operating rules and ensure the independence of the accreditation and certification bodies, as well as the transparency and veracity of information at all stages of the chain of custody, from the fishing vessel to the final consumer. we also ask the commission to submit a communication within six months on the minimum requirements and guidelines to be met by a community system of labelling fishery products, and i would add that it should clarify whether the commission is finally inclined to call it an eco-label, or what other name it chooses and why, and we urge it to take account of the reflections put to it by this house.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs fraga on the interesting report we are debating in this house today. the in-depth study of consumer preferences and attitudes is a basic need for any industry, and it is obviously the same for fishery products. changing lifestyles and the introduction of new technologies have changed the european consumer, who is increasingly concerned about his health and also about the protection of the environment. one of the best methods of providing information is labelling, which must therefore be clear and understandable and contain truthful information. for this reason, i am glad that the commission is finally taking up this debate on the labelling systems for fishery products in order to define the approach to be taken on this issue from the european union. the fact is that the growing importance which consumers attach to sustainable development has given rise to a bewildering collection of private labels, without any control, which can distort their original purpose, namely to guarantee an environmentally friendly catch and processing system. if, in addition, additional information is provided on the sustainability of the product, the independence of the inspection and accreditation body must be guaranteed, as the rapporteur rightly points out. in this respect, i take up the words of the director-general of fisheries markets and structures in spain, alberto lópez, when he points out the need to avoid the trivialization of eco-labelling. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labels are not subject to homogeneous and accredited standards. in this respect, i cannot but welcome the fao's initiative to audit all eco-labels to identify those with technical and scientific backing and to seek coherence and harmonisation. the committee on fisheries shares the commission's objectives, such as sustainability and the need for european action in this area.
thank you, mr nicholson. i cannot say you deliver good news for us, but congratulations to you anyway.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs fraga estévez, and everyone who has spoken tonight. although not in agreement on all aspects, the commission and parliament are on the same wavelength as regards moving towards adopting decisions based on tariff assessments and broad consultations. i would underline to the last speaker, mr nicholson, that the debate tonight fully reflects the way the commission wanted to involve parliament before entering the legislative phase of what needs to be done on eco-labelling. obviously, when it comes to that legislative phase, the involvement of parliament will be a top priority prior to finalisation of the whole process relating to the eco-labelling scheme. let me refer to some specific points that were raised during the debate. most of the existing schemes are in effect relatively consistent and are not misleading. the commission’s preferred option for establishing minimum criteria for eco-labelling schemes will, however, bring order to the system, where necessary, and increase consumer confidence. we will also be ensuring better quality products and providing for transparency and the traceability of products on the market. on the point raised by various speakers on the preference for a single eco-labelling scheme, it is still early to take a definitive and final decision. the commission has, however, indicated its preferred option and i should underline that the economic and social committee, the advisory committee on fisheries and agriculture, and most industry and stakeholders’ representatives support that option. however, although a preference for option 3 - the commission’s preferred option - which is to say the setting of minimum criteria, seems to be emerging, no agreement has yet been reached between member states at council level. that is why i underline the fact that it is still too early to take a firm and definitive stand on how to proceed. however, this debate has certainly helped to better inform us on parliament’s position and on that of its various members. on the issue of the harvesting of fisheries resources in a sustainable way, i wish to refer to the commission’s communication, which underlines that the aim of the policy on eco-labelling for fish and fisheries products is based on the concept of sustainable fishing. the communications spells out that eco-labelling schemes, if based on clearly-defined criteria and appropriate indicators, can assist in both monitoring the progress made on sustainability in fishing and in raising public awareness on sustainability issues. it goes on to make reference to sustainable exploitation with regard to article 3(e) of council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002. regarding the other points raised, i agree with the comments on the importance of independent accreditation and certification. guarantees in this area are provided by iso standards and procedures. however, the commission has no direct competence to enforce those norms. i also agree with the comments made to the effect that eco-labelling needs to be clear and clearly understandable so that it is easily understood by consumers. moreover, eco-labels offer the possibility of helping to combat iuu fishing and of promoting proof with regard to sustainable fishing practices. by virtue of the whole exercise undertaken, we will be increasing awareness among the general public. fao criteria will be taken into account when it comes to laying the basis of eco-labelling schemes. moreover, the schemes must not be cumbersome to smes, or so complex that they cannot be effectively implemented by stakeholders.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the joint debate on - the recommendation by mrs diana wallis, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of the community to the hague conference on private international law (com (2005) 0639 - 7591/2006 - c6-0138/2006 - 2005/0251 (avc)) (a6-0250/2006) and - the oral question to the commission on the participation of the european parliament in the work of the hague conference following the accession of the community, by mr giuseppe gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, (o-0076/2006 - b6-0324/2006).
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, after the intervention of commissioner frattini, it seems that we have achieved the objective we set ourselves with this exercise, despite the late hour. finally, the commissioner told us that this possibility of parliament's participation in the procedure for adopting conventions by the hague conference is enshrined in the framework agreement on the institutions and that the european parliament could therefore formally take part in these negotiations. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. i think we should start by thanking the commissioner for his generous words, because there is no legal obligation. i would also like to add my voice to those of my predecessors who have said that judicial cooperation in civil matters is now a competence of the european union under the treaty of amsterdam and that we also have the hague programme for the development of judicial cooperation in civil matters. this is not a peripheral area in relation to the very essence of the european union, but a central area, which means that the three institutions will have to work together on this matter, so it is quite appropriate to work together. in the motion for a resolution tabled by mr gargani on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, there is also another rather interesting suggestion, namely that it is not only a question of the european parliament cooperating with the commission in the negotiations to be held at the hague conference, but also that a sort of parliamentary forum should be created - which would be a task which this parliament could take on by meeting with national parliamentarians. in short, european union law on private matters is still largely national law and the creation of such a parliamentary forum would therefore allow us to harmonize positions. the great problem in private international law, as we all know, and in private law in general, is that these are national rights, which even correspond to different traditions. but at a time when we are thinking of harmonizing, codifying or unifying private law, the creation of such a parliamentary forum, perhaps for this specific purpose for now, would be a good principle so that the european institutions do not appear to be unconnected with national legal traditions. those of us who have worked in this field have seen the enormous difficulties that exist in making any progress in the area of private law, because of the differences between national traditions, but this proposal, which is more directed at parliament itself than at the commission, would be very positive, because it would enable us to harmonize positions with the national parliaments and bring those harmonized positions to the conference, through our participation in it.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, what we are discussing today is really a sign of the european union's maturity. not so many years ago, when i was meeting with other people who were teaching private international law in different universities, to mix private international law or private law with european union law was a heresy, because, quite simply, the european union was concerned with fisheries, at most, international trade and competition, but it was not really concerned with private law issues. today the european union has much to say in the field of private law, because today, although we still have a long way to go, the european union is already dealing with the private consequences of european citizenship, its direct impact on the private space of individuals and the consequences that freedom of establishment and movement has on the private law of individuals and companies. all this was the impetus for the introduction of this subject in the amsterdam treaty and for the development of the european union - the european community, to be precise - to have these powers, which have made it possible to draw up a large number of legislation or to convert into european legislation instruments which were not, although they were, in some way, part of the community, such as the brussels convention and others. in this context, therefore, the accession of the european union - the community in the strict sense - to the hague conference is a very important step and shows, i repeat, the maturity of the european union; it shows that we still have a long way to go, inter alia, as regards the way in which these rules are drawn up: third pillar, first pillar, etc. it is not the time to discuss it, but it is something which will result in improving the quality of our own legislation and which will certainly allow the european union to bring its own priorities to the hague conference. so, even though it is midnight and there are very few people here, this is a real test and an indication of the maturity of the european union in areas which affect the citizen very directly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr sifunakis, on his work, which underlines the specific nature and importance of europe's cultural, natural and artistic heritage, which generates numerous benefits, both in social and cultural terms and in environmental and economic terms. rapid urban growth, social and technological progress, modern farming methods and economic and urban exploitation pose significant challenges to rural and island communities, which, as mentioned here, make up the bulk of the territory of the enlarged european union. at a time when, on the one hand, rural abandonment, depopulation and the economic crisis, and on the other, fires and the proliferation of natural disasters, are highlighting the urgent need for agricultural professionals who work and care for our environment and who look after the sustainability and future of our territory and our landscape, this report is very timely, because it emphasises the need to develop an effective policy based mainly on a sustainable balance between the population and the environment, and on an integrated approach to traditional agricultural areas, especially rural environments. the development of a legislative framework for the conservation of cultural heritage, the provision of the necessary funding for its restoration, the training of nature conservation professionals and the support for artisans and suppliers of traditional materials are all proposals that go in the right direction. and in this connection i would like to stress that promoting international meetings to present and exchange experience and good practice in the field of landscape conservation and heritage protection in the european union would be a very positive element of this policy at community level.
mr president, firstly i would like to welcome this excellent report and thank the rapporteur for his work. preserving the natural environment is one of the main goals of the european union. our present and future task is to also establish the goal of preserving europe’s architectural and cultural heritage, and that is especially important for small islands. it is really important to preserve natural assets, but in small ecosystems, the environment, human settlements and cultural heritage are fully interconnected. i come from ibiza, an island that is suffering the effects of the construction of two disproportionately large highways. because of these works, several important elements of cultural heritage have been destroyed. archaeological sites and traditional homes have been destroyed to enable these highways to be built. this situation has been repeatedly condemned by civil society organisations and i myself have denounced it before the european commission and in this very chamber. if this parliament and the european institutions as a whole take into account the proposals contained in mr sifunakis’ report, this kind of damage could be avoided and small islands, rural sites and cultural heritage could be properly preserved. that is our main goal now.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr nikolaos sifunakis, on his excellent report. the report makes it possible to have an extremely interesting debate, because it once again underlines something which for me, and for many of those present, is absolutely essential in the union, especially in recent years: the awareness of the impact of insularity on the development of island regions has finally been gaining ground. i therefore welcome the special mention in today's report of the protection and promotion of the cultural, natural and architectural heritage of the island regions of europe. in this sense, the rapporteur's country of origin, the island of crete, the cradle of the minoan civilization, the oldest in europe, or my own, the balearic islands, where the tudor ship is located, which is also considered the oldest building in europe, dating from about 1500 bc, make us particularly sensitive when it comes to encouraging the european union to take measures to protect and rehabilitate europe's cultural heritage. in this sense, the government of the balearic islands is working on the development and implementation of sustainable development policies based on the convergence of the objectives of sustainability and competitiveness of tourism activity, and especially on the safeguarding and improvement of the natural, cultural and architectural heritage. that is the way forward, a way forward marked by a civil society sensitive to the particular fragility of island regions and with a high level of environmental awareness. this is a good starting point for, as this report calls for, starting today to pool and exchange experience in this important area of protecting europe's heritage, a matter of enormous importance, since it concerns not only human beings but also constitutes an important element of the identity and historical development of europe's regions.
mr president, mr schulz was of course not present last monday when the european commission spoke here. in his statement, commissioner dimas said that the only country where the european civil protection mechanism was applied this summer was spain. and that makes sense because 50% of the fires that have occurred this summer have unfortunately occurred in my country. now, mr schulz will know that in the european parliament, on 6 october, we will have a public hearing on the european civil protection corps, proposed by our friend, the former commissioner, mr barnier. so, as we want that delegation to travel before 6 october, it is physically impossible to visit all the countries he has mentioned. i propose that the spanish trip be continued before 6 october and if your group wants us to visit other countries after 6 october, you can be sure that i will give you my vote in favour.
in writing. we are voting today on a motion for a resolution on the crisis in the middle east, which shows that parliament, unlike the european council, is up to the task. i am voting in favour of this resolution because it contains some key elements for strengthening the fragile truce between the israeli army and the hezbollah militia. the solution to this conflict, as the text says, can only be political dialogue, never military action. nevertheless, some questions remain on the table, such as the impunity with which israel is emerging from the conflict. the eu should be brave and lead the charge for israel's co-responsibility in the costs of rebuilding the devastation caused by its bombing of civilian infrastructure and targets. the fact that we cannot forget that the occupation and the aggressions against palestine continue makes it imperative that an international conference be held to resolve the crisis in the middle east, where sanctions against the state of israel and its return to international law are envisaged, and where the road map for the settlement of the conflict is clarified.
author. - mr president, the political and human rights crisis in zimbabwe remains a serious and worrying issue. to this must also be added the deterioration of living conditions and increasing poverty. but i would like to focus on one particular aspect which is also mentioned and which is also a topical issue which we often deal with in these emergency sessions, and that is freedom of expression. just yesterday, we were talking about china and we were lamenting the high degree of government control that currently exists over the media, and the internet in particular. well, it seems that zimbabwe has been inspired by the chinese formula to develop its own law on communications interception, which is added to an already highly restrictive legislative system in terms of freedoms. the chinese inspiration is no less, because, as human rights watch recently stated in a report, the chinese control system, called in english the great firewall, is the most advanced in the world. thus, under this law, the army, intelligence services, police and even the office of the president will be able to monitor and intercept emails, listen to telephone conversations and censor the internet, all without the need for a court order. it would affect the relationship between doctors and their patients, for example, between lawyers and their clients, between journalists and their sources, and it certainly poses a huge risk to privacy, ngos and people working for human rights. for all these reasons, i believe it is our duty to ask for the law to be withdrawn. but in any case i want to make it very clear that this concern does not come to me just because we are talking about zimbabwe, nor is it exclusively with regard to china. this is a concern which we must understand as universal and which we must raise with regard to these countries as well as, for example, the united states and the european union itself. respect for freedom of expression and the right to privacy should be fundamental elements of any modern society. we are talking about zimbabwe today, but, i repeat, this is an issue that cannot be reduced to zimbabwe alone.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 7 september 2006.
the final draft agenda for this part-session has been distributed, as agreed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 21 september, in accordance with rules 130 and 131. the following amendments to the agenda were tabled:tuesday:the green group/european free alliance has asked for a commission statement on the implementation of food safety legislation (decomposed meat) to be added. i call mr cohn-bendit to explain this request from the green group.
the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats and the socialist group in the european parliament have requested that the debate following the commission's statement on the asem summit not conclude with a vote on a resolution. i would like to ask the commissioner to explain why he has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. i would remind you that i will give priority to those who did not speak at the previous two partsessions.
mr president, in some countries of the european union we are witnessing new forms of right-wing extremism which are of concern to all democrats. ideological fanaticism, intolerance and hatred are not new, but it is new that they take refuge in the bosom of large and moderate parties. when the far right is located outside the parliaments or is poorly represented, we have known how to combat it; now it is more difficult. it affects both parties in power and parties in opposition. we are seeing the resurgence of forms of racism, xenophobia, sexism and homophobia, which is a setback for the democratic achievements of the european union. i shall not mention other countries, but i shall mention my own country, which is not in the worst situation. in spain, the main opposition party did not accept defeat at the polls in 2004 and has embarked on a dangerous path towards extremism, manipulating, lying and attacking not only the government but - what is more serious - the institutions of the rule of law and the judiciary, the bodies and security forces of the state.
mr president, i believe that it is urgent for the european parliament to call on the commission and the council to reorient immigration policy in the face of the humanitarian catastrophe that the arrival of immigrants from the african continent is bringing about. we cannot simplify or trivialize the problem, as the german representative did last week at the meeting of the ministers of the interior, when he said that spain would not sink because of the arrival of 20 000 or 25 000 men in the canary islands. that's not the problem. it cannot be simplified, it cannot be trivialised; we must get to the bottom of the matter. the european union has to react by reorienting that immigration policy, by addressing the underlying problem, which is the lack of active cooperation to create jobs, to create stability in the heart of africa, on the african continent. the example of switzerland, although not part of the union, is not an example that can help us either. it is not a question of putting asylum applications at risk, it is not a question of switzerland making financial flows or bank deposits much easier than people. that's not the way either. i believe that the way forward is for the european union to take a clear human position, to resolve this very serious phenomenon of immigration from a human and 'civilizational' point of view.
i apologize to all the colleagues who were not able to speak, but we have exceeded the time allotted for this item.
i'm sorry i can't give the floor to everyone. i beg your pardon. i take good note of your request. you will be the first to speak at the next session. there are other members who have spoken at the previous two partsession in a systematic way and i have already warned them that i try to give priority to those who have not spoken at the previous partsession.
thank you very much, you will also have the opportunity to express your views on this at the next part-session. we take note that you were unable to do so today. thank you and sorry.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the commission on its proposals and also the rapporteurs, because they have once again shown their high commitment to the environment. it is true that citizens want cleaner air and a higher level of protection. however, these same citizens say - and this is shown by many surveys - that they are not prepared to bear the costs of such a level of protection, and this requires us to be balanced in taking action. i am surprised at the amount of space that the report devotes to agriculture. i sincerely believe that it is too small for a sector in increasing difficulty and that it also fulfils multiple functions with positive effects for the environment and social cohesion. as regards the shipping sector, i agree with the objective of achieving a level playing field, but i also believe that it is important to work with the international maritime organisation to designate new sulphur emission control areas, otherwise we will have to leave part of the european fleet in third countries where controls are virtually non-existent. i also think that we should be more ambitious in the field of vehicles, which are the main cause of pollution in cities and of external dependence in the energy sector. i would like to know what the commission thinks about this, because i think that clean vehicles would dramatically improve the air quality in our cities. finally, it is important to continue to implement and develop the directive on integrated pollution prevention and control. this directive will enable industries to continue to innovate and to control their emissions more effectively, without having to close any installations. i can only ask the commission to be flexible and to use common sense in implementing all the proposals that are being put to us today.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ferber, for his work and the dynamic he has given to the working party and the committee on budgetary control, including the committee on budgets, even though we did not entirely agree with some of his conclusions in committee and with his decision to reopen other subjects, which, in part, i believe, have come to cloud the conclusions that were clear in the initial mandate. this was to be another discharge exercise for parliament, but the information given in principle by the strasbourg city council to the press about some benefits it had obtained from the price paid by parliament itself, and this by means of a contract by intermediary formula which it never explained, launched or made this exercise something much more interesting, from which we have drawn important lessons. the working group has found that the use was legal and even within the uses of these financial engineering real estate formulas and misuse, in my view, of effective intermediaries. the intermediaries have earned their pay. but if there has been overconfidence and rudeness on both sides, i think that as a parliament we have learned to trust less in the goodwill of other institutions. so let us welcome this whole exercise, for a greater awareness of the risks and dangers involved in real estate transactions, if we thereby avoid, and i think that is what we intend, that in the future there will be this kind of unpleasant surprises which complicate the exercise of the necessary confidence for parliament with our own premises. as regards the other two issues which have crept back in, pensions and the seat of parliament, i reiterate the view already expressed on several occasions by this house that this is not the solution proposed by the majority.
member of the commission. mr president, once again, this is a very timely initiative, as we are preparing for the launch of new seven-year programmes. in future this particular dimension could be much more evident in cooperation on education and training policies than previously. this report could also be inspirational, therefore, for the council and the member states. that falls within their competence and responsibility, of course, but we should at least reflect on where we are and what can be done to improve this educational dimension. in his report, mr beazley touches on serious and specific problems. the commission shares those concerns. in the last joint report by the council and the commission on progress in the education and training 2010 programme, we concluded, for example, that ‘despite some promising initiatives on mobility and participation in eu programmes, there is still a lack of national strategies on the european dimension in education’. policies that would ensure that, after initial education, young people have the knowledge and competences they need as european citizens – not only as tourists but as citizens – are piecemeal and fragmented. it is also true that the term ‘european dimension’ has a different meaning. on the one hand, it refers to the concept of europe, its civilisation, democratic values and projects. however, it can also be seen as european citizenship or european identity, with rights and duties as citizens, active participation and a sense of belonging to europe. it is thus important to have clear views on how to integrate the european dimension in school curricula and how to provide schools with both the material and the opportunities to learn about europe in practice. the commission has already started this work. among our programmes, comenius, for example, supports projects with partners from different countries working on developing the european dimension. the ‘european schoolnet’ is a good example of an interactive and virtual tool for networking and for dissemination. the youth programme also aims to familiarise young people with the concept of a european dimension in their lives through exchanges and especially through voluntary service. transnational projects like these are an excellent example of the european dimension in practice. the recommendation on key competences for lifelong learning, which we have just discussed, is an important step forward. it highlights a number of skills and attitudes needed for active european citizenship as part of social, civic and cultural competences. similarly, our work with national experts on teacher training stresses the importance of european knowledge, mobility and networking. these are a very important part of teachers’ professional development. i fully agree with mr beazley. the commission shares the view that much more needs to be done to raise awareness of the many good national and european initiatives. the commission continues to work with member states, for example co-financing projects within comenius and supporting multilingualism, and we will encourage member states to develop the european dimension as part of their lifelong learning strategies. moreover, my colleague mrs wallström and i recently agreed on a number of initiatives to be taken in this area. therefore, for all these reasons, i see this report as providing major input into the commission’s reflections on the issues of education and citizenship.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the recommendation we are now discussing, together with the two others before it, represents a major step forward in making young people and citizens more aware and informed of the importance of the european union. at present, it is true that the union has few powers in the field of education, and while some member states - a few - include in their curricula or educational programmes appropriate content on european subjects, others are still a long way from introducing this element in the educational curricula of their educational establishments. in view of this situation, i believe it is necessary to develop at european level what is already provided for in article 149 of the treaty, which states that the union must develop the european dimension in education, especially through lifelong learning and the dissemination and teaching of the languages of the european union. the commissioner has already given some examples in this direction, but this report should help to reinforce this need at community level, not only to provide the necessary skills in european citizenship, but also to facilitate citizens' knowledge of the union's policies and institutions. there is also another reason, and that is to contribute to raising awareness and awareness of european citizenship, which would result in better communication between citizens and the institutions, a communication which currently presents some symptoms of poor health which have quite a few not very positive consequences. i would ask the commissioner to do even more to define this so-called 'european dimension' in education, so that the council can then agree on how this task would be carried out in each educational system. finally, i would like to remind you of the importance - as has already been said - of language teaching in bringing young people closer to the different cultures of the union, and of the exchange of good practice, especially in the field of teacher training, a key group for achieving the objectives we have set ourselves.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, my thanks to mr figeľ, and to mr beazley for his report. the making of the european union is a complex process in which, according to our point of view, education plays a fundamental role. it is impossible to establish european citizenship without the active support of a proper education system. as we know, many of our views about history, cultures, society, etc., are forged during our crucial school years. the education system happens to be a means for a state coercion, many times at the expense of cultural plurality and diversity. for this reason, history for instance, has been traditionally very highly mediatised by the state. the consequences of state-based education can be very counterproductive for our purposes and our values. for example, chauvinism and unilingualism: nearly 50% of european citizens are only able to speak fluently their own language. we need to overcome such a state-based education. introducing the european dimension in our education systems can be a fundamental contribution to avoiding national chauvinism, to improve citizens’ command of several languages, to strengthen respect for plurality and diversity, and to build a common european identity.
madam president, the european parliament is pleased to welcome you to its plenary session, and it is my honour to welcome the first woman elected president in an african country, you and the delegation of ministers and parliamentarians accompanying you. (applause) i must say to my fellow members of the european parliament that the delegation of the president-in-office is made up of more members than ministers. i would remind this house that you were also the first woman to hold the post of finance minister in your country in 1979, 27 years ago. unfortunately, the following year his country suffered a coup d'état: 1980 marks the beginning of a quarter of a century of violence in liberia, a 14-year civil war, a systematic plundering of the country's resources and a massive violation of the human rights of its inhabitants. the balance sheet of this terrible and long war - as long as the old european wars of religion - could not be more tragic: 250 000 victims in a country of three million people, representing almost 10% of the population, a million people had to leave their homes - some are now returning - , there was a massive rape of women - more than 25 000 -. at that time three quarters of the population were "living" - if you can say lived - on less than 1 dollar a day and unemployment reached 85 percent of the population, that is, there was no economy as we understand it in developed western societies. madam president, in these circumstances it must not be an easy task for any ruler to assume the presidency of a country. our parliament welcomes the role played by the economic community of west african states (ecowas) in the 2002 peace talks which led to the presidential elections which you won last november. the european parliament sent observers to those elections, and the head of the delegation, our colleague max van den berg, clearly stated in his report that, despite some minor incidents, the elections had taken place in accordance with the rules governing them. we therefore welcome her today as a symbol of the rule of law, peace, democracy, women's rights and the fight against corruption and impunity. if you read the biography of the president of liberia, you will see how many times she has resigned from her positions of responsibility because she disagreed with the way governments were dealing with the problem of corruption in her country. you will also remember that last april, here in the house, i had the opportunity to express my satisfaction at the arrest and extradition of charles taylor, which the european parliament had requested in several resolutions, and which was finally carried out at the request of the president. this represents a breakthrough in the fight against impunity for war criminals around the world which we hailed here then, and which i want to recall in your presence today. after all your suffering, we want to offer you our support. it's good the guns are quiet. but the moment the guns fall silent, the task of rebuilding the country begins - a task followed with less interest by the television cameras - and the risk is that, once the war scenes are abandoned, it will be forgotten. it would not be the first time that, after having achieved peace, society has not found the path of reconciliation and the economy the path of development. on that road, madam president, you will find european help so that liberia remains the symbol of freedom it was in its origins. we hope and wish that you will build a future of hope for all the inhabitants of your country that will be a symbol for all of africa. madam president, you have the floor. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the republic of liberia. mr president, honourable members, it is with a deep sense of gratitude that i and my delegation join you today on the occasion of your formal sitting. on behalf of the government and people of liberia i extend warm greetings and felicitations to you, honourable members, and through you, to your respective governments and peoples. i am honoured by the opportunity to make a few remarks. it has been barely eight months since the full responsibility of rebuilding post-conflict liberia was passed over to us, following our victory during the democratically held 2005 elections. we accepted the responsibility fully aware of the magnitude of the challenges that our country faces after 14 years of civil war and destruction. the damage and negative consequences have been enormous, deepening the state of poverty throughout the country. today, gdp per capita at usd 163 (2005) represents a 90% decline as compared with the pre-1980s pre-war levels due to sanctions and cutbacks in activities in productive sectors such as agriculture, forestry and mining. exports declined similarly by over 95% for the same period. our huge external debt estimated at usd 3.7 billion represents 800% of gdp and 3000% of export earnings while domestic debt and non-salary arrears are estimated at usd 700 million. our budget, just passed recently, at usd 129 million, although increased by over 50% from the previous fiscal year still accounts for less than 30% compared with two decades ago. when we took office there was no electricity and no water. schools and clinics had crumbled, roads were impassable. institutions of governance had completely collapsed and corruption was rampant. hiv/aids rates had soared. few children were in school and many were dying of curable diseases. today, well over three-quarters of our people live below the poverty line of usd 1 per day. an overwhelming majority of those people, mainly the youth, are either unemployed or employed in the informal sector. yet, i am pleased to tell you, liberians are resilient people. for even after everything they have endured, the people of liberia have faith in new beginnings. they are counting on me and our administration to create the conditions that will guarantee the realisation of their dreams. their dreams are not complicated. they just want the simple things that most people take for granted: to live their lives in peace, get a good education and to be able to provide for their families. those things are not too much for liberians to dream about. but time is pressing. as you all know, the risks of regression to war in post-conflict societies is high when the government and the international community are not able to make strong efforts at key moments and sustain them over time. liberia today is at one of those key moments. our efforts, joined by those of our partners over the next few months, the next year and beyond, will determine the future course of our nation. if we wait too long to introduce the policy changes and reforms that are needed, or if our international partners wait too long to ramp up its support, then we may lose the best chance liberia has had in a generation to end the conflict permanently and build the foundations for growth and prosperity. we cannot afford to let that happen. (applause)we must quickly consolidate the potential dividends of liberia’s hard-won peace and arrest the economic and financial haemorrhaging. we must respond to the deep wounds of the civil war, and enhance national governance, while quickly introducing new measures of structural reform. we must base our approach on the core principles of democracy, accountability, free enterprise, good governance, respect for human rights, and equitable distribution of our natural resources. so with everything said and done, what must we do first? poverty reduction strategies are at the core of both averting a return to conflict and establishing the foundation for sustained development. we are basing our strategy on four pillars of reconstruction and development. the first pillar is enhancing security and consolidating peace in our country. without peace and security there can be no development or prosperity. we must redouble our efforts to train our forces, not just in security matters but also in being accountable to the people. our security forces over the years have been quite corrupt and largely dysfunctional. they have lacked the trust of the population and have been used to terrorise the population and to intervene in political processes without respect for due process or law. we want to change that. we must develop a clear national strategy that will take into account the gradual withdrawal of un peace-keeping forces. we have already started the process. we have completed the deactivation of members of our armed forces and are well on the way in recruiting a new army comprising 2000 soldiers to be adequately trained and well equipped. with the strong help of un agencies and other partners, we have facilitated the return of 70 000 refugees and 50 000 internally displaced persons since the inauguration. our police force and other security units are being restructured and trained. it is important that we find the means to resettle them in productive endeavours. second, we need to revitalise our economy. we need to focus strongly on agriculture, both in food and cash crops with emphasis on the rehabilitation of our traditional rubber industry. we also expect rapid growth in our forestry, mining and other natural resource-based industry, based upon policies that aim at creating an investment climate that will encourage investment in activities in which liberia can compete internationally. these activities will create jobs to tackle the 80% unemployment which we face, particularly among our youth. towards this end, we cancelled all non-compliant forestry concession agreements and are in the midst of establishing a new concessions framework for our natural resource products, to ensure the strong growth of these sectors. we have taken an aggressive stance in collecting revenue owed to the government, and already revenues have jumped by over 20%. we have reached agreement with the international monetary fund on a staff monitoring programme, and by all accounts our performance to date has been strong. we are concluding our interim poverty reduction strategy which articulates priority interventions over the period july 2006 through december 2007. this builds upon our 150 day action plan under which 70% of our desired results were achieved. the third element of our vision is improving democratic governance. the over-concentration of power and a closed political system bred corruption, restricted access to the decision-making processes, limited the space for civil society participation in the processes of governance, and fuelled ethnic and class animosities and rivalries over time. we are working through statutory and policy changes to revise these constraints on democracy and development. we are determined to fight corruption, which has eaten away the fabric of our nationhood and society. we are well along the way to developing a strong anti-corruption strategy and a supporting legal and regulatory framework. our weak judicial system is under reform and being strengthened. we are working towards decentralising decision-making and allocating appropriate resources to county and municipal governments to support their own identified programmes and projects. we are placing emphasis on empowering the people, especially the poor and vulnerable, to become participants in the development process. (applause)the fourth and final pillar of our agenda is revitalising our social and physical infrastructure. education is central to renewal and reconciliation. our vision of education for all – young and old – demands that we enforce the policy of full universal primary education and introduce literacy programmes in communities throughout the country with our resilient market women as key targets. (applause)we recognise that no nation can develop under conditions of a 70% illiteracy rate. we must respond particularly to our war-affected youth, providing them with opportunities for school and skills training programmes. we must also rehabilitate health facilities that have been partially or completely destroyed. only 10% of our population today has access to healthcare. this must increase to at least 50% within the medium term. we must confront the growing hiv/aids problem, and fight malaria, parasites, malnutrition and other diseases that kill so many of our children. our roads are in a terrible state. without a decent road network it will be nearly impossible to consolidate security, encourage new economic activity and strengthen local governance. we must also improve other social infrastructure, such as water and sanitation facilities. in what we consider one of our most important achievements, in july of this year we were able to turn on electricity and water to parts of our capital city, monrovia, for the first time in 15 years. (applause)we are proud that we were able to achieve in six months what previous governments had failed to do over so many years. we should like to thank the european union through the european commission for all they have done to support us in these first beginnings. but that accomplishment is just a beginning. our mission is to make the liberian government work again and be more responsive in delivering quality services to the liberian people. the associated challenges are so daunting and the needs and expectations of our people so massive that our government cannot satisfactorily respond by itself. there is a critical need for forging and building strong strategic partnerships. to this end, let me use this opportunity to express our deep appreciation for the continued assistance we have received over the years from the european community collectively as well as from individual member states. (applause)the government and people of liberia appreciate this concerted support and we are keen to harness it for the recovery, reconstruction and development of our country. we take interest in the ongoing reforms within european union development assistance to african nations, as well as the new european consensus on development towards poverty eradication. it is our desire to work with our colleagues to conclude the ongoing economic partnership agreement negotiations, bearing in mind the need to arrive at a consensus on bringing into an equitable balance the development imperatives usually derived from such partnership agreements. furthermore, the anticipated european development day celebration will no doubt enhance the content and results of your partnership with our countries. we welcome this innovative initiative and look forward to its good results. in summary, we are off to a good start. for that we are grateful to the liberian people and to the international community, including the european union and the european commission, which are key partners in this regard. it is just a start. in the next few months, we will be engaged in serious planning for our partnership conference, which is to take place in the first quarter of next year, and in developing our medium-term poverty reduction and growth strategy. we will continue our strong start in the budgetary process and adopt appropriate fiscal regulations with the gemap framework. but it is critical that in the next few months liberians begin to see steady, tangible progress. i would like to ask all our partners to work closely with us in the next few weeks so that we can make sure that the many activities that need to be implemented during the upcoming dry season are ready to go on time. we cannot afford to waste any time, and in many projects we need to speed the process of disbursement and implementation. we specifically ask for your support for this objective through the european commission. i also want to make sure that we do not face gaps in critical support during the transition between our emergency programmes winding down and longer-term development programmes getting started. in too many countries, this transition does not go smoothly and critical momentum can be lost. finally, i want to make sure that the efforts of government and partners are fully synchronised and harmonised. to best prepare for the partners conference, we need to make sure that partners are supporting the most important initiatives, that there is not undue overlap and duplication, and that together with both strong planning and rapid and effective implementation we can be assured that we will take advantage of this critical moment in liberia’s history to put the conflict to rest and speed the process of reconstruction and development. we are glad that our nation has been blessed. liberia is not a poor country, but a country that has been poorly managed. we are committed to change that; to pursue those goals that will move us from the crisis of the past to the opportunity of the present. we are committed, as a people, to build a new liberia from the ashes of an old turbulent past to a future of hope and promise. we are committed to strategic partnerships based upon mutuality of respect and benefits. we thank you all, collectively and bilaterally, for the support provided so far. we thank you, president borrell fontelles, for the opportunity of being here and we look forward to working with each and every one of your countries in the coming months and into the future. thank you. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
madam president, just a few words to thank you for yours. i am sure that his presence in the european parliament and the words he has addressed to us will serve to make the whole of europe aware of the problems of his country and to commit itself to the development of africa. we all know how concerned europe is today about immigration from africa and we all know that only by overcoming the problems you have described will we be able to establish the cooperation relationship you have spoken of today. thank you very much, madam president. (applause from the centre and the right)
we shall now resume the voting.
the next item is the commission communication on the accession of bulgaria and romania.
member of the commission. we do not encourage or propose a brain drain, but we try to mobilise brains. there are many examples of how either we proceed together in order to release the potential which we have in our member sates and our universities in the new generation of students and researchers, or we are lost with the lack of growth, the lack of new and better jobs. even in the programmes for which i am responsible, we do not stimulate or motivate third-country nationals to leave their home states, but rather to go back and build up their societies and economies in close partnership with european countries, european institutions or universities. instead of lamenting how little we did to stop the brain drain and for the recuperation of european potential, we should focus on the credible implementation of our next generation of programmes. we want to have even more mobility combined, of course, with freedom. i am also from a new member state, and i usually answer that instead of lamenting that more young people go out than come back, we need to create conditions which build or offer a truly european perspective back home in slovakia, in lithuania or latvia. after two years of membership of the union, it is becoming more and more evident that the europeanisation of conditions and prospects for young people is there, but it is a process; it takes time. the much-quoted, miraculous examples of ireland or finland are just logical results of long-term strategic policies where education, training, knowledge and research are at the centre and remain at the centre. that is a good example for all to follow.
member of the commission. although estimating the effectiveness of any investment in education is always difficult, the commission is not aware of any study demonstrating that the return on investment in language teaching is lower compared to other forms of education. on the contrary, it is commonly agreed that money spent on acquired language skills ensures a good return to the individual, his or her family, companies and society at large in terms of higher salaries, better jobs and increased business opportunities. according to a recent eurobarometer survey, more than 50% of european citizens stated that they are able to hold a conversation in one foreign language. that percentage is encouraging, although it is far from our objective of giving all european citizens the ability to communicate in at least two other languages in addition to their mother tongue. to pursue that objective, the commission promotes language learning and linguistic diversity through its programmes for education and training as well as through many other exchange programmes. lingua 1 action under the socrates programme is aimed at developing and disseminating innovative techniques and examples of good practice in language teaching. furthermore, the european label for innovative projects in language teaching and learning is awarded each year to the most innovative language learning projects in each member state. the commission is bound by its legal obligation to translate into all official languages community legislation and the related documents that are necessary to enable citizens, companies and other stakeholders to enjoy their rights and comply with their obligations. as regards other documents, they are translated in accordance with real needs, taking into account available capacity. that principle applies to all official languages.
member of the commission. in reply to the first comment, we are working on that in real terms, especially on the creation of a european indicator of language competence, which will help us to assess and influence the situation more effectively and to obtain feedback and improvements in the teaching and learning of languages. on publication, the ratio is something that reflects the total output, but the impact of the new languages has been to increase the linguistic diversity of the union. we need, therefore, to function fully in this multilingual environment, because it defines us and provides us with a link to citizens. this has to be nurtured further, not only in the union as a whole but also, and especially, in the institutions. we are working on that. i do not want to say much about that, as i was asked to shorten my answers. perhaps in reply to other questions i can talk about the ways in which we want to promote multilingualism in our institutions.
the commission's vice-president mr hurd, the commission appointed mr etienne davignon as european coordinator on 20 july 2005 to boost the development of priority axis 3 tgv sud, which includes the perpignan-montpellier section. the first annual report by the coordinator, mr davignon, published on 13 september, mentions possible delays in the implementation of the section in question. the completion of this section is made more difficult by the presence of protected areas and a very concentrated habitat. after checking with the french authorities, it appears that the delays should be much more limited than you indicate. although it is likely that the 2015 date will not be met, the 2020 date for the commissioning of this infrastructure seems quite realistic and it can even be thought that this could be achieved before then. within the multiannual financial framework 2007-13, the commission wants to concentrate a significant part of the available community resources on the thirty priority projects. in its amended proposal for a regulation laying down general rules for the granting of community financial assistance, the commission intends to pay particular attention to projects aimed at eliminating bottlenecks, cross-border sections and the river route. i would like to ask the house, mr president, mr member, to allow the financial regulation to be adopted quickly, so that we can get the funds in place more quickly and, for this priority axis no 3 as for the other axes, speed up their implementation.
thank you, commissioner. what credibility does the european union have in the eyes of its citizens when it declares a project of european interest, when it sets a date for its implementation, and then allows the authorities of the member states to consider this project as an internal project and to assert at a press conference that they will not carry it through? you say that the date i give is exaggerated; this is the date given by the french authorities at a press conference. 2030, that's what the french authorities say. so let me have more confidence in the french authorities who are responsible for the implementation. what did you just tell us? what credibility does the commission have to enforce european decisions if nothing else is needed?
the commission's vice-president i spoke about 2020 after consulting the french authorities. you are right, mr president, i am the first to wish that the large european networks can be built within a reasonable time. however, this also depends on the intervention of the member states, and you know that instead of the 20 billion euros we were hoping for under the financial perspective for 2007 to 2013, we have only got 8 billion. that being said, mr davignon, the coordinator, and i do not intend to let the french authorities in any way jeopardize the future of this major corridor which is the subject of the priority project. so i have a personal commitment, mr president, and we will do everything to get things changed, and if there has been the unfortunate announcement of a timetable which i think is quite excessive, well, i am here to tell you that the transport commissioner will fight to see that this is not the case and that we can have a much more reasonable timetable.
mr commissioner, after the thirty priority projects have been selected, it is alarming that the lagging attitude of some member states is turning these projects into ghost projects. the coordinator of project number three has in particular complained that there are huge delays in planning the figueras-perpignan section. the commission is therefore prepared to urge the french and spanish governments to fulfil their obligations in this priority area.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, karin jöns, the commissioner and the council on their work, which was done so quickly and so well. i am glad that the commission has taken this step, and i hope that the council will take it. secondly, mr president, i am pleased that we seem to be taking the whole of the lisbon process seriously. this process requires us to reform the economy and certainly modernise europe, but at the same time, we must remember that for economic reform to succeed, we must build a more cohesive, more inclusive society. i think that with progress on the table today we can say that those who say that social europe is a matter for the member states alone are wrong. europe has a lot to say, a lot to do, and although it is obviously the member states that are still building their welfare state, europe brings an added value of coherence and intelligence and helps our member states to tackle the huge issues that we have as challenges in this era of globalisation. i therefore hope that the commission will act wisely because it is a small instrument financially, but it must be used very wisely. i hope we will continue on this course of working together, of not losing sight of our priorities and making our agenda the citizens' agenda.
mr president, i shall refer only to action for equality between men and women. ladies and gentlemen, when we all expected the european commission to launch a new action plan for equality between men and women in mid-2004, we were surprised to find that the commission instead proposed progress, a programme to promote employment and solidarity, which included actions to promote equality between men and women but within a wider framework of social action. convinced that greater and more differentiated attention still needed to be paid to equality between men and women, the committee on women's rights and gender equality opposed from the outset the inclusion of the programme on equality between men and women under progress, while calling for increased budgetary resources and insisting on the need for equality between men and women to be manifested as something common to all community policies. this was the beginning of an important and positive negotiation which has continued throughout the parliamentary procedure which ends today, with results which we can call more than reasonable. the actions for equality between men and women remain within progress and this does not satisfy us. we have succeeded in separating the daphne programme and here it has not been possible. we continue to call for greater visibility for equality policies, but we must congratulate the rapporteur, mrs jöns, the rapporteurs and also the commission and the council, because their joint work has indeed made it possible to substantially improve the initial proposal in terms of content and funding and in terms of the integration of the gender perspective in all the actions of the programme.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, let me once again thank the rapporteur and all those who have contributed to this work, which, as far as i can judge from the discussion, is considered a joint achievement of the european institutions. it is clear from the discussion that the programme is considered to be rationally organised and adequately resourced. it is also clear that the way in which the reports are presented, and i would like to emphasise here that they will be presented directly to parliament, is considered appropriate to the requirements and the situation. ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to take advantage of this opportunity from 1 january next year to ensure that all the elements and objectives envisaged in the programme are effectively and successfully implemented, and thus to meet the expectations that we have undoubtedly raised from this successful phase.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, allow me first to express my sincere gratitude to the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, for his support for the commission’s proposal for the extension of the pericles programmes. pericles, a community programme for exchange, assistance and training in the protection of the euro against counterfeiting, was established by a council decision in 2001 and is designed to support and supplement the measures undertaken by the member states to protect the euro against counterfeiting. with an initial duration of four years – 2002 to 2005 – it had a total reference amount of eur 4 million. the pericles programme covers a broad range of actions organised not just within the eu, but also in third or candidate countries. its action incorporates diversified target groups and participants, covering all the areas relevant to the protection of the euro – law enforcement, judicial, financial and technical – and promoting the creation of networks useful in achieving greater efficiency in the fight against the crime of counterfeiting. in addition, pericles assists the increased effectiveness of cooperation between law enforcement agents and representatives of the judiciary and financial institutions. nevertheless, the counterfeiting of euros remains a serious and especially a symbolic problem, even if its proportions are not alarming. since early summer 2003, the number of counterfeit euro banknotes detected in circulation has stabilised at about 50 000 a month, a level below the pre-euro levels, lower than the us dollar and extremely low compared to the 9 million genuine euro banknotes in circulation. the number of counterfeit euro coins also remains low by historical standards. recently police forces have successfully conducted a number of operations to dismantle workshops and seize large numbers of counterfeit banknotes and coins before they enter into circulation. the pericles programme is playing a significant role in achieving results in the protection of the euro and the fight against the crime of counterfeiting. there is clearly a need for continued joint efforts to combat this form of crime. the pericles programme has recently been evaluated. the evaluators concluded that the programme did indeed improve awareness, its target groups have been reached, especially law enforcement officials, and its activities and information exchanges were considered relevant to the objectives of the programme. based on the positive evaluation of pericles and the continued need, in 2005 the commission proposed the extension of the programme. pending an agreement on the community financial perspectives for the period 2007-2013, the council initially decided to extend the pericles programme for one year only, until 2006, but made a political commitment to the continuation of the programme. consequently, building on the success the programme has demonstrated, in may 2006 the commission tabled a proposal for a council decision concerning the extension of the pericles programme for the period 2007-2013. the yearly amount remains unchanged, approximately eur 1 million, leading to an overall reference amount of eur 7 million. the commission’s proposal for extension until 2013 also reflects the practical convenience of fitting in with the duration of the community’s financial framework. once more i would like to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, for their attention to the protection of this important element of the common european identity and heritage that is its common currency. the public authorities at national and european level, as well as industry, have to keep up their efforts and continue cooperation and the exchange of know-how. it is through our combined efforts that we will be able to protect the interests of tradesmen, consumers and the economy in general against illicit gain from the counterfeiting of our money.
the fight against counterfeiting of the euro is very important for citizens' confidence in the single currency. i share every single one of mr. kallas's statements. the introduction of the euro as a single currency was a challenge. the dollar, as a transnational reserve currency and a currency of global transaction, is today the most counterfeited currency. unfortunately, the euro shares these same characteristics with the dollar, although to a lesser extent. the pericles programme aims to support and complement actions initiated by member states and existing programmes in the field of euro protection through exchange, assistance and training in the fight against counterfeiting of our single currency. the programme was established, as you know, by a council decision of 17 december 2001, which envisaged the need to submit evaluation reports on the programme accompanied by a proposal on the continuation or adaptation of the programme. the first report was issued and submitted to the parliament and the council on 30 november 2004. on 8 april the commission then presented a proposal on the basis of which the council extended the programme for the financial year 2006, allocating a budget of eur 1 million and requiring a detailed report to be submitted to parliament and the commission on the results of the programme. as regards the evaluation, pericles has made a clearly positive contribution to the protection of the euro and the fight against counterfeiting, which fully justifies its continuation: in particular, the perception of the community dimension of the euro has been improved and participants have been able to better understand the legislation and instruments available; an overall level of commitment of 80% of the initial reference amount was reached in the period 2002-2006; 64 projects involving 76 countries have been developed; the effective complementarity between the national and community levels has been highlighted - 48 of the 64 initiatives emanated from the member states, while 16 came from the commission or olaf; an international projection of the programme has been achieved, involving not only all member states and the member states but also other member states where there is a high incidence of systematic production of counterfeit banknotes, such as colombia; the creation of a central office of the european central bank, olaf, and europol, and the establishment of a structure with responsibility for combating counterfeiting in several other countries; and the establishment of a national counterfeiting organisation in several countries. the results of the pericles programme so far are encouraging, as is shown by the european central bank's semiannual report on the counterfeiting of the euro. it's getting harder and harder to counterfeit our currency. the data for the first half of this year show that the proportion of counterfeits is decreasing in relation to the increase in the number of genuine banknotes put into circulation. as the commissioner has already said, 50 000 banknotes of our currency are counterfeited every month, while the total number of genuine banknotes in circulation is 9 000 million. between january and june this year, 300,000 counterfeit notes were withdrawn from circulation. of the total number of counterfeits seized in the first half of this year, 44 per cent were 20 euro notes and 36 per cent were 50 euro notes, which represents a significant increase in counterfeiting of the former. the 100 euro note accounts for 12% of all counterfeits, while the 500 euro note accounts for only 1%. in short, mr president, i am very much in favour of the proposal. it is of paramount importance that the community legislator ensures that the enlargement of the programme is properly linked both to the financial perspective and to the introduction of the euro in the new member states. once a final agreement on the 2007-13 perspective has been reached, the council postpones the pericles decision; we fully agree to align it with the financial perspective, with an annual budget of eur 1 million. i therefore propose that the european parliament should, under these conditions, approve the commission's proposals, on the one hand, amending and extending the pericles programme. i would like to say one more thing, mr president, in protest at the change in the timing of this debate. i have not been consulted or given any explanation. i should be here now with the victims of my country's terror, but i'm here out of respect for all of you. when my speech is over, i will go away to be with them and i express to all of you and especially to you, mr kallas, the apology that you deserve and that i was not offered. please understand the reasons why i have to be absent.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i speak with full knowledge of the facts and i think you should be well informed. i have in my possession the agenda, with the timetable and the forecast for the vote on the two pericles this morning. i mean, the two pericles were supposed to be voted on this morning and it's here in print, mr president. so i offer the apology that i was not given, for leaving the room at this time.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by reiterating my thanks to mrs krehl for her work, which has enabled us to reach a common position in parliament, which has undoubtedly considerably improved the content of these strategic guidelines. in this way we will be able to enable europe's regions to take full advantage of the budgetary allocation earmarked for this purpose and we have laid the foundations for the national strategic frameworks, that is to say the search for the balance between growth and territorial cohesion. we must not forget that europe is made up of a wide range of regions with many similarities, but also with many peculiarities, which must be taken into account from the point of view of cohesion: urban and rural areas, with agriculture as the main activity, outermost regions, islands, areas suffering from depopulation processes. finally, cohesion policy must aim to eliminate the specific difficulties of each of them, thus ensuring equal opportunities. the strategic guidelines therefore include important recommendations, including: the creation of more and better jobs; innovation and the knowledge economy, which contribute to closing the digital divide; environmental investments, which ensure sustainability and the management of natural resources; transport infrastructure and accessibility, which allow equal opportunities for those who need it most, such as the elderly, people with disabilities and women. these have been key elements for the smooth development of cohesion policy and will ensure that the objectives originally set are achieved. finally, we must point out that the principle of participation in the design of european policy has been taken into account. we thus have the basis for mobilizing the potential for economic growth that exists in all regions, with a cohesion policy that improves the geographical balance of economic development and raises growth in the union as a whole and that ultimately creates the basis for a stronger europe, cohesive and solidary.
the commission's vice-president mr president, first of all i would like to thank the members, mrs barsi-pataky, mrs hall and mr rübig and mr glante, who were to join us. i thank them, and especially mrs barsi-pataky, for following very closely the development of this great programme, galileo. i shall try to answer precisely because i would like to allay some fears which i feel are, however, somewhat excessive. i would remind you that the galileo programme was designed in three stages. first, a development and validation phase, including the development of the satellites and ground components of the system, as well as in-orbit validation. this development phase extends from 2003 to 2009; it is currently managed by the galileo joint undertaking. the deployment phase will follow in 2009 to 2010, with the manufacture and launch of the satellites and the full implementation of the ground component. finally, in 2010, the exploitation phase is to begin. the deployment and operation phases will be the subject of a concession covering a period of about 20 years. the supervisory authority, which is a community agency, will oversee these two phases. it will be the granting authority. there is a date in this calendar that we must absolutely stick to - and you are right about that - it is the date from which businesses and citizens will be able to receive reliable and accurate signals from galileo. it will be at the end of 2010 when the first galileo satellites will start to send out their signals. but i'm not here to hide the difficulties. galileo is not only a technological innovation, but also an institutionally specific undertaking. the project now involves eight industrial players, 25 public players and three institutions. this multiple sponsorship will eventually be the strength of galileo, but it is true that all these actors, all these sponsors of galileo must really be able to adapt to make the case together. when i saw the difficulties between the eight members of the future industrial consortium in 2005, i asked karel van miert to solve the problems, which he did remarkably well. we also had to deal with the evolving safety and security requirements which required a further delay due to technical examination. anyway, what matters is the 2010 deadline. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. thus, the industrial activities of the in-orbit validation phase, which are entrusted to the european space agency, started in december 2004. the contract for the completion of this phase was signed on 19 january 2006 and the work is currently proceeding satisfactorily. the technical feasibility has been demonstrated and the question now is to lay the foundations for a real public/private partnership for the next twenty years. i will of course be addressing the problems that will arise around the signing of the concession contract. i would now like to answer the second question you asked me about the european supervisory authority. the authority is entrusted with the control of the future concessionaire. the supervisory authority shall ensure that the concessionaire complies with the concession contract and the annexed specifications; it shall take all appropriate measures to ensure continuity of services in the event of the failure of the concessionaire. in addition, the supervisory authority will have to ensure all technical, security and financial aspects of the concession. in this respect, i would like to say that the drafting of the concession contract is obviously very important, because this concession contract will be the primary instrument on which the supervisory authority will rely to monitor the concessionaire. so we really need an unequivocal drafting of the concession contract and of course i will inform parliament as the commission has undertaken to communicate to you the contents of the concession contract before it is signed by the supervisory authority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the distribution of the financial effort between member states and industry depends very much on the risk assessment, but this assessment is itself linked to the best possible knowledge of galileo applications. that is why i am going to make a communication on these applications by the end of november in the form of a green paper. so we have devised a competition to appeal to the imagination of europeans about the possible applications of galileo. i am convinced that we are still underestimating the potential of galileo and i urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to do your part to encourage all our european industrialists to contribute to this discovery of the possible applications of galileo. the second problem is that of cooperation with third countries. as you know, international agreements on the galileo programme are negotiated on the basis of article 300 of the treaty. the procedure provided for in this article always involves consultation of parliament before such agreements are concluded, and i will personally ensure that this is done. it is true that cooperation with third countries on galileo is an opportunity, but this cooperation must be supervised, and the commission will make a new communication to parliament and the council this autumn, in which we will set out the broad lines of this cooperation policy. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, i do not wish to dismiss the difficulties involved in implementing such an ambitious project, but at the same time i would draw your attention to the risks of suggesting that this programme would, in some way, be subject to absolutely decisive delays, which would jeopardise the viability of the project. we are not there yet, and we will not be there, because i intend personally, with your help, with the active cooperation of parliament, to ensure, mr president, that this great project can be carried out in accordance with the timetable we have set ourselves to ensure its viability, because you are right, other competitors will certainly come forward. it is therefore necessary that galileo can be implemented within the time frame i have indicated. i will certainly make sure of that throughout the procedure, with the help and support of your parliament.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i thank the commission for its explanations; i think it has fully understood that the situation of the galileo programme - as is happening, for example, with airbus - is a matter of concern to us. that is really the point of the debate. temporary planning and adherence to the planned timetable are crucial to the commercial viability and success of the programme. galileo is significantly behind the 2005 forecasts. the tendering procedure has been extended, and this will have a serious impact on the programming of the project as a whole. that is why our question is relevant. it is necessary to ensure the continuity of the project, to seek the most creative solutions and the most appropriate to the objectives of the programme. we encourage the commission to continue the negotiating effort, ensuring that there will be no further delays, so that galileo, the largest industrial project at european level, can proceed under optimum conditions and play its proper role in achieving the lisbon objectives. we also ask the commission to undertake the necessary reforms to encourage the participation of smes as well. to support it, parliament needs to be informed. the commitment is there and you've remembered it. we must also be informed of the costs and consequences of delay. i share the conviction that it will be useful for parliament to monitor the project regularly. it is important that the supervisory authority, which you have mentioned, also sends its reports to parliament and that the expert appointed by parliament has observer status in the activities of the authority. in fact, this parliament has already given its full support to the galileo programme in the past, by making legislative and budgetary commitments, and by clearly recognising that galileo is a strategic project, one of the pillars of the lisbon strategy, which in turn offers a great opportunity for our small and mediumsized enterprises.
the agenda includes the joint debate on freedom, security and justice and immigration, all of which are topical issues, especially after the impact of the meetings held in tampere this weekend. these are:- the oral question to the council on progress in the area of freedom, security and justice (articles 2 and 39 of the treaty on european union), tabled by mr cavada on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-0086/2006 - b6-0428/2006), and- the statements by the council and the commission on the common immigration policy.
author. mr president, mr president-in-office, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, before answering the oral question, let me briefly thank you, mr president-in-office, publicly for the organisation of the tampere council of ministers, which took place under really excellent conditions. as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, i want to make it clear that the european parliament very strongly supports the proposal of the presidency and the commission to activate the bridge clause provided for in article 42 of the treaty. this bridge clause, i repeat, was created at the very moment when the european union was given the task of promoting cooperation between the member states in the field of security, that is to say when the maastricht treaty was drawn up in 1992. there was no deadline in that clause for its activation. it is not enough to have the political conditions and mutual trust to make such a decision. until now - and this is rather odd - this bridge clause has never been activated, because the transition to the ordinary legislative procedure was decided directly by the treaty of amsterdam for asylum and immigration policies and for civil judicial cooperation, and then by the treaty of nice, which facilitated the transition to the codecision procedure for these policies which had been communityised. but police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters remained outside the scope of this communitization. the question arises therefore whether, 14 years after the maastricht treaty, the political conditions, that is to say, mutual trust, are now finally met for the member states to accept the application of the normal decisionmaking procedure provided for since maastricht to this sensitive area of cooperation. the european parliament is quite clear that the answer is yes, and for three reasons. the activation of the bridge clause would first reduce the democratic deficit, then strengthen the rule of law and finally increase the efficiency of decision-making. let us briefly consider these three points. as regards the democratic deficit, i believe it is essential to strengthen the democratic principle that all union acts, especially those affecting the rights and freedoms of individuals, must be adopted in association with the representatives of the citizens. there is a serious deficit when this is not the case. to those who maintain that the democratic principle of the status quo is not absent from the third pillar, since governments would be acting under the control of their national parliaments, i would like to say clearly: can anyone honestly argue that national parliamentary control is sufficient to ensure a democratic balance when it comes to taking decisions at the level of the union rather than at the level of a nation? moreover, what about cases where this parliamentary control is absent, as will be the case for the renegotiation of agreements with the united states concerning the pnr agreement in particular, an extremely serious matter which will be deliberated outside any democratic control. the second reason is the principle of strengthening the rule of law. according to this principle, any act must be subject to judicial review of its legality. logically, for acts of the union, this judge should be the court of justice of luxembourg. but article 67 of the treaty establishing the community and article 35 of the treaty on european union introduce such limitations on the jurisdiction of the court of justice that the judges themselves have expressed doubts as to whether the rule of law is respected in certain acts falling within the second and third pillars. so this issue needs to be resolved. finally, let us consider the third point, which concerns the effectiveness of the decision. the maintenance of unanimity prevents any rapid and effective decision-making, as we all know, and this even though the gravity of the threats to the union since the attacks of 11 september, those in madrid and those in london would call for much more speed, more speed, in the decision-making process. once these three weaknesses have been identified - and they are hardly objectively disputable - how can we justify postponing a decision that could have been taken a decade ago? some people, mr president, argue that this question should be settled in the context of the negotiation of a new constitutional treaty. it is a hope, but can we afford to wait for the outcome of this whole process which will take at least two to three years, when the threats to security and the gaze on freedoms are permanent? the bridge will certainly require ratification by national parliaments and this could buy some time for those who are more reluctant. but this difficulty can be overcome by a more thorough dialogue with the national parliaments, which we, the committee on civil liberties, will be receiving on 3 and 4 october, that is to say next week, in a large interparliamentary meeting where we hope to convince them. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, first of all, i would like to extend a warm welcome to you from tampere and from my colleague, mrs leena luhtas. first of all, i would like to thank president cavada and president gargan for their strong contribution. in tampere, we had really open and concrete discussions on the development of an area of freedom, security and justice. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the european union is a bit like that. some of my critical colleagues said that yes, you can safely stop on a bicycle and even put your feet firmly on the ground. i found that if the chains were off, it was difficult to get back on the road. in the light of the excellent speech by president cavalca, perhaps we should reflect on this very point. cooperation between the european union and the member states is essential to enhance the security of citizens while ensuring the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms. in this respect, the european union's capacity to act, its speed of decision-making and its ability to respond to changes in the environment are crucial. the political line adopted by the tampere european council in 1999 requires continued good cooperation between the commission, the european parliament and the council. as president, we want to promote the new spirit of tampere. the protection of fundamental rights is of paramount importance. all the member states are parties to the european convention on human rights, and the safeguarding of the principles contained in it is a constant theme in the work of the council, including, of course, particularly in sensitive matters such as the fight against terrorism. i would stress that these values are taken into account in all our activities, both in our internal activities and in our relations with third countries. particular attention will be paid to the establishment of a european fundamental rights agency. the work on the proposed council regulation establishing the european union agency for fundamental rights has been launched and is at an important stage. as the finnish presidency, finland will make every effort to establish this agency by the beginning of next year. the important question at issue is whether the fundamental rights agency should also be active in areas currently covered by title vi of the treaty on european union. the presidency will make a special contribution to clarifying the third pillar of the agency's powers. to this end, we hope that the member states will be flexible enough to find a solution that satisfies everyone. we had constructive discussions last autumn on the directive on the retention of telemetry data in a difficult situation, to clarify the technical, economic and legal aspects. we are able to respond quickly to the main concerns of the member states and the european parliament. i think this is a great example of how decisions can be taken by qualified majority voting and at the same time seeking consensus. in order to encourage this, we want to adopt the framework decision on the protection of personal data in the third pillar as soon as possible. we are aiming to complete the first reading of the proposal during the current six-month period. the council is currently carefully examining the european parliament's opinion on this proposal. the abolition of internal border controls, i.e. the enlargement of the schengen area, is an important political objective in the creation of an area of freedom in the european union. the schengen evaluation procedure launched earlier this year has already made it possible to carry out comprehensive assessments in the new member states, both in terms of police and visa cooperation and also in terms of data protection at land and sea borders and at airports. the new member states must fulfil all the conditions for the application of the schengen acquis. this also requires a functioning schengen information system. the inspections scheduled for this year are now well under way. in december, we will review the results of the inspections and decide on the next steps. we have recently received a report from the commission on the delay in the technical preparation of the sis ii system. the measures and timetables involved shall be reviewed in an open and honest manner in the light of new information. we have an obligation and a desire, in the light of the european council's guidelines, to examine what we can do to speed up the preparations for the abolition of internal border controls. as the finnish presidency, finland has contributed to the preparation of legislation on sis ii together with the european parliament, and we hope to reach an agreement on this in october. i thank mr coelho, the rapporteur, for his strong working document, which is strict but which seeks a common solution. we have also reached agreement in the council's high-level working group on practical measures to improve the coordination of the sis ii project and the cooperation between the national projects and the preparation of the central system under the responsibility of the commission. the finnish presidency of the council put the so-called 'cat on the table' as soon as it took office in july, and the matter was also discussed last week in tampere. the commission's new technical preparation timetable for the sis ii project and any realistic alternative technical solutions that may be available will be discussed in the council next week. on the basis of this review, the december council and the european council will set a target date for the abolition of internal border controls. the december council will also have the opportunity to look at the overall situation with regard to schengen controls. we will do our utmost to expand the schengen area as quickly as possible without compromising security. mr president, the treaty already contains provisions on procedures for assessing the interpretation of matters falling within title iv of the treaty or the legality or interpretation of acts adopted by the community institutions. article 67 of the treaty provides that the council, acting unanimously after consulting the european parliament, may adapt the provisions relating to the jurisdiction of the court of justice. the issue will be raised for the first time this friday in the judicial panel, and further discussion will depend on the positions raised by the member states there. the chairman considers this a very important question. as we know, the citizens of the eu rightly expect the european union to be able to cooperate more effectively in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. at the same time, respect for fundamental rights and freedoms must be guaranteed. under the treaty on european union, the council, acting unanimously after consulting the european parliament, may invoke the transitional clause provided for in article 42 of the treaty on european union and bring police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters fully or partially within the community. last week in tampere there was an important debate on this subject between the representatives of the member states and the commission and the european parliament, and i would particularly like to emphasize the strong point of view of president cavadan, who was equally present in the council of ministers, not only for himself but also for the european parliament. it was a very important addition to our discussion. there was also broad support for enhancing decision-making. we will continue to work with determination in line with the conclusions of the european council. i would like to emphasize that this debate is not the opposite of the constitutional treaty, but we want to emphasize the importance of the treaty in the development of an area of freedom, security and justice. in order to ensure that progress in justice and home affairs is reflected in the security of citizens, it is necessary to ensure that acts are fully transposed into the legal systems of the member states. during the presidency, we will seek to develop the evaluation systems for justice and home affairs on the basis of the commission's communication. a number of peer review methods have also been established for organised crime and terrorism-related matters. not all member states have yet ratified the protocols to the europol convention. the council has regularly reminded the member states of the importance of this matter. finland is confident that the protocols can be put into effect by the end of this year. the added value of internal security in an enlarged union has been sought through closer cooperation between law enforcement authorities. as regards the prüm agreement, the presidency announces that finland will take national measures in the near future to enable it to accede to the agreement. the agreement will soon include at least eight member states. this fulfils the minimum condition for the launch of enhanced cooperation under article 43 of the treaty on european union. as the presidency, we will promote the incorporation of the prüm agreement into the legal order of the european union. the council is continuing its discussions on the framework decision on procedural rights, following an initiative from the commission. last june the council decided to continue work on the basis of the compromise proposal of the presidency. compared to the joint proposal, it limits the number and scope of rights and focuses on general requirements. we will try to complete the first reading of the proposal in its main parts during the current six-month period. as regards racism and xenophobia, the council has been informed that the member states which had a general vote on the legislative proposal have now withdrawn it. the negotiations can therefore be resumed as soon as possible. mr president, the european union has developed a common policy on immigration, border control and asylum, based on the tampere european council and the hague programmes. this is based on solidarity, mutual trust and shared responsibility between the member states. it shall take full account of human and fundamental rights, including the geneva convention on refugees and the right to seek asylum in the territory of the european union. responsibility for the control of external borders and immigration and for the implementation of the asylum procedure lies with the member states and their authorities. during the finnish presidency, the council has sought to have a comprehensive debate on immigration issues both at the july council meeting and at the informal ministerial meeting in tampere last week. recent events in the canary islands and the mediterranean have underlined the european unity of destiny and the need for a commitment by all member states. it is essential that member states and the union institutions the european parliament, the commission, the frontex agency and other competent bodies work in good cooperation and coordination. the european union must step up its efforts to provide practical support to member states which are the most burdened by the number of illegal immigrants entering their territory. this also includes the initiative on extended european solidarity presented by the president at the tampere meeting. the initiative will create procedures to ensure that member states respect commonly agreed rules and take responsibility for illegal immigrants and asylum seekers entering their territory, in return for a financial contribution from the eu. the president's initiative will be continued on the basis of the rather positive discussions in tampere. development aid from the european union and the member states plays a key role in addressing the root causes of illegal migration. the mediterranean crisis is showing us, at the latest, the importance of external relations in combating illegal immigration. the overall framework for eu action is the comprehensive approach to migration and the priority actions for africa and the mediterranean adopted by the european council last december. the overall approach will strengthen cooperation between member states and increase dialogue with african states and cooperation throughout the mediterranean region. the european council has asked the commission to report on progress achieved by the end of this year. the overall approach has already led to a number of important initiatives, such as the ministerial meeting in rabat in july, the frontex initiative to develop maritime policing in the mediterranean, and the operational specific projects in support of spain and malta. the president is promoting these initiatives, as well as the very important commission proposal for a regulation, the rabit regulation, on the establishment of rapid border intervention teams. the development of an integrated external border control system and the adoption of a strategy for this purpose is one of the key priorities for finland's presidency. the commission also addresses the related issues in a coherent and thorough manner in its communication on illegal immigration, issued last july. to meet the legal immigration targets set in tampere, a number of acts have already been adopted on the status of long-term residents, family reunification, the granting of residence permits to victims of trafficking in human beings, and admission, education, vocational training, voluntary work and scientific research. in january, the commission adopted a policy plan on legal immigration, as mandated by the hague programme. it also takes account of the lisbon programme adopted in july last year. another important step forward is the general programme for solidarity and management of migration flows 2007-2013 and the four funds to be set up under it: the european refugee fund, the external borders fund, the european return fund and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals. the council will seek to reach agreement with the european parliament on these important acts at first reading. the presidency is aware that the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on common standards and procedures for returning illegally staying third-country nationals is of great importance for the common return policy, but we are also aware of the issues that need to be resolved in order to reach a compromise on the proposal within a reasonable time. the council, in cooperation with the european parliament and the commission, has already decided to intensify the discussions in order to complete the examination of the proposal. in the area of asylum, a debate is expected to begin on how to develop the current eu asylum rules. the commission is to draw up a green paper on the future of the common european asylum system. this was also the debate in tampere. the presidency aims to ensure that the current minimum standards are replaced by genuine common rules for both asylum and subsidiary protection. practical cooperation between member states on asylum matters must also be strengthened. the council expects the commission to make a proposal on this subject. the council also expects the commission to present in the near future a legislative proposal on the extension of long-term resident status to refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection status. the key objective is to increase the transparency of the union's activities. the european council agreed last june on measures to increase transparency. as the finnish presidency, it will stress the importance of transparency and will take the debate forward vigorously on the basis of the commission's forthcoming green paper. this flag of openness was also strongly displayed in tampere. mr president, with regard to the secret detention centres mentioned in the speech by the president of the united states at the beginning of september, i would like to assure the house that the council is aware of the possible implications of this. at the september meeting of the general affairs and external relations council, the ministers expressed their commitment to combating terrorism effectively by all available legal means and instruments. terrorism is in itself a threat to the value system based on the rule of law. the fight against terrorism must respect human rights and humanitarian requirements. as i said at the london summit in august, we must not allow the terrorists to profit from the undermining of our fundamental rights and values. in the july justice and home affairs council, i for my part considered it necessary that the member states also contribute to the preparation of the cia report on prisoner flights, in order to strengthen the foundations of more confidential and effective security cooperation. i am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that my speech is dragging on so long, but i too have 24 years of parliamentary experience behind me. when you get to speak to an interested public, you may want to say a little too much, but i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, by saying that the citizens expect the european union to bring more security, more effective decision-making and the ability to respond to new challenges. they also require the ability to combat organised crime and terrorism, to manage migration flows and to monitor our common external borders effectively. our responsibility and the challenge to parliamentary capacity, both in the european parliament and in national parliaments, is to respond together to the legitimate demand of citizens for a europe that is fair and safe for all to live in. (applause) i would like to thank the
thank you very much, mr rajamäki. the council and the commission have no time limit. so they can take the opportunity to stretch themselves as much as they think is necessary and timely, but the day still has twenty-four hours.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all, i would like to express my profound satisfaction at the excellent cooperation with the finnish presidency, in particular, mr rajamäki and mrs luhtanen, and with the european parliament, particularly with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and mr cavada. implementing and further developing the hague programme is a joint goal. this calls for effective decision-making and requires clear political priorities to make a real difference. the strategic political goal remains striking the right balance between improving citizens’ security and promoting and defending people’s individual rights. as you know, last week in tampere, we discussed the main challenges in the area of freedom, security and justice and how best to address them. it is clear that the fight against terrorism and the management of migration flows are currently the main priorities for the european union. as i stressed in tampere, i consider that our efforts in the fight against terrorism at european level need to focus on key areas such as fighting radicalisation and recruitment, the misuse of the internet by terrorists, the prevention and detection of the misuse of explosives, the protection of critical infrastructures, bio-preparedness and transport security. i am also convinced that any new security measure, especially in relation to air transport, should not bring about a disproportionate reaction which, in my view, would hand victory to terrorism. security is at the centre of my action and we will assess carefully the effect and proportionality of any decision taken in that field. the fight against terrorism and the defence of individual rights should go hand in hand. as regards migration, the commission decided to set up a commissioners’ group on migration issues. i have the privilege of coordinating that group, which brings together all the policy areas relevant to migration management: from justice and home affairs to development, employment, education and training, regional policy, economic issues, external relations and european neighbourhood policy. that comprehensive approach involves legal and illegal immigration, as well as integration. solidarity, in the form of financial support and the deployment of experts and equipment to our shared borders, is also an essential element of this approach. while the focus is clearly on migration from africa, such an approach has to take into account migratory movement from other regions of the world, particularly from our eastern neighbours, some of the countries from which many kinds of illegal trafficking originate. in the field of illegal immigration, we have, as you know, recently taken many practical measures, particularly in relation to migration flows affecting southern member states of the european union. frontex, in particular, has been very active in coordinating assistance to the member states in question, for example the canary islands, and further operations are planned in the short term in the central mediterranean area. solidarity means practical help to member states under pressure. we need funds, equipment, boats, helicopters and aeroplanes. for example, for the period 2007-2013, the frontex agency will have eur 272 million, which i deem insufficient to deal with the growing phenomenon of migration. next year the agency’s budget will be some eur 21 million. i hope that parliament will agree to a further increase in the financial envelope. additional financial support has been provided to the member states most affected, in particular spain, malta and italy, via the argo programme. in that regard, i should like to mention that last week the commission decided to fund six emergency projects in the above countries. the commission has also adopted a package of measures to help mauritania in its efforts to contain the flow of illegal migrants to the canary islands under the rapid reaction mechanism. we shall do the same concerning other important partners in sub-saharan africa, such as senegal. as regards the management of the southern external maritime border, i presented to the informal tampere council a set of recommendations for operational measures to be taken in the short term, that is, before the summer of 2007. those recommendations include: firstly, the setting-up of an operational command centre in the relevant regions to coordinate a mediterranean coastal patrol network; secondly, exploring the establishment of a european surveillance system in order to link up the existing national surveillance systems; thirdly, making the pooling of assets a reality with equipment made available by all member states to be put at the disposal, at short notice, of a member state requesting assistance; fourthly, exploring options for the creation of a team of asylum experts in close cooperation with international organisations, above all the united nations; fifthly, making the maximum and best use of current and future financial instruments. the above measures aim to strengthen the community’s capacity to manage and prevent the kind of situations we have seen this year, and should be taken in parallel with the implementation of the global approach on migration adopted by the european council last december. it is a matter of ensuring an immediate political response based on tangible european solidarity – and i stress the word ‘tangible’ – and a sharing of responsibilities and burdens. that means, as recently stressed by president barroso and by myself at tampere, it is of the utmost importance that all member states continue working together in a spirit of solidarity, not least to assist those southern member states most affected today by illegal immigration from africa. it must be absolutely clear that it is up to member states to provide the assets required to make the joint operations a success. we have made a start, but just a start. the size of the problem, however, is such that much more work is needed. in that regard, i also hope that from next spring the european union can make use of the rapid border intervention teams, whereby teams of national experts, under the coordination of frontex, will provide quick technical and operational assistance to member states in need. addressing migration in a comprehensive manner also entails developing a structural approach and reinforcing the inclusion of migration in european external policies. this includes looking at the root causes of migration and development issues. the commission is making serious efforts to make migration an integral part of its development policy and is engaging in particular with african countries on this matter. in particular, we must give priority to the implementation of the action plan agreed in rabat last july and to the preparation of a successful european-african conference on migration with the african union. it is hoped that it will take place in november in tripoli, libya. we should also strengthen our cooperation with north african countries, in particular algeria, morocco and libya, on migration issues, including the issue of international protection, which necessitates a regional response. in this regard, both eu member states and north african countries must take responsibility for those in need of international protection, including asylum seekers. refugee protection is another important part of my portfolio and i am happy to announce to you that two specific regional programmes will start in the coming weeks. we should also ensure that illegal migrants are returned to their countries. in this respect, the commission is ready to support the efforts of member states politically, diplomatically and financially, while fully respecting people’s individual dignity. we should also not forget another important element in fighting illegal immigration: the need to step up the fight against illegal work. it is a key pull factor for illegal immigration. as mentioned in july’s commission communication on illegal migration, we are currently considering drafting a legislative instrument to harmonise sanctions against employers of illegally resident migrants. obviously, member states would have to take immediate measures in this direction, so as to address the issue of illegal work. in relation to legal economic migration, i must emphasise that the implementation of the policy plan on legal migration is a priority for the commission and for me personally. by eliminating illegal work and creating admission procedures for legal migrants, europe will set up a virtuous circle, or, should i say, a positive structure of incentives. the commission is convinced of the necessity of a common approach to managing economic migration as an additional means of achieving the lisbon objectives and tackling the negative effects of demographic ageing, in order to foster the european economy and competitiveness. in particular, to contribute to economic growth, it is fundamental that europe becomes, first and foremost, a real pole of attraction for highly skilled migrants. the idea of proposing a directive on the conditions for admission to the european union for highly skilled workers, including the possibility of a european green card, responds to this economic necessity. europe continues to receive low-skilled or unskilled labour only, while the united states, canada and australia, for example, are able to attract talented migrants. however, at the same time, i think proper measures should be taken to avoid the growing risk of a brain-drain from poorer countries. a proposal for a directive on the rights of legal migrants in employment constitutes the other pillar of the commission’s policy in this field for the next year. both proposals will be presented in the second half of 2007, under the portuguese presidency. last but not least, i should like to stress another important element of european immigration policy: the integration of migrants. as highlighted in the common agenda for integration, which i put forward in september 2005, greater integration efforts are crucial for a successful common european immigration policy. i strongly hope that after the council in luxembourg has endorsed this global european approach towards migration, the same european common approach will also be approved at the highest political level by the european council in lahti. let me now turn to the ‘passerelle clause’. in tampere, as minister rajamäki and mr cavada have just said, we also discussed how to improve decision-making in the field of security and justice, in particular by using the ‘passerelle’ or ‘bridging clause’. as you know, the commission’s position has always been very close to parliament’s on this issue, as we consider that the bridging clause represents an appropriate and important tool for the union and member states to ensure greater efficiency, transparency and accountability of the decision-making process in addition to greater democratic legitimacy, given the stronger role of parliament. the debate in tampere has been very open and constructive. all the member states, even those that are still reluctant, agreed on the need to move forward. while some of them expressed fears that a decision now on the ‘passerelle clause’ would pre-empt the debate on relaunching the constitutional process, i believe this is not the case. we will be among the first to welcome a positive outcome of the exploration the german presidency intends to carry out in 2007 and we will give them our full support. nevertheless, we have to prepare ourselves for a situation where the ‘passerelle’ clause may be the only way to address the urgent need that all of us share. i agree that we need the constitution, but if we wait we may find ourselves paralysed. in any case, as you know, when the constitution comes into force the ‘passerelle’ clause will be incorporated into it automatically. i agreed with minister rajamäki when he said in tampere that europe is like a bicycle: either it goes ahead or it falls to the ground. and it was only by going ahead faster than others that my compatriot bettini won the cycling world championship a few days ago. we must, therefore, continue this very important political discussion, building upon the common goodwill shown by all member states in tampere. at the next justice and home affairs council, which takes place in a few days in luxembourg, we will have a chance to decide on how to move this important dossier forward. finally, citizens do want more europe. europe would then be more effective in taking decisions. practitioners, judges, prosecutors and police authorities also want more effective instruments to fight organised crime and terrorism. to be frank, we cannot allow civil society to move faster than our political strategies and policies. if we want to be credible, we have to respond now and not only after tragic events, as has happened in the past. (applause)
we are grateful to the vice-president of the commission for his explanation of what happened in tampere and for the optimistic view he gives us of what happened there. let us now hear the views of the political groups. remember that members do have a limited use of time.
mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate mr frattini on the good sense with which he has re-used a term which is essential at this moment in the construction of the area of freedom, security and justice: the term priorities. in this sense, i would like to say that a great debate and a great result are still lacking, which are urgent today in the construction of the european union, because we are often talking about concrete measures, but the most important thing has yet to be defined. in a decade, what will be the final horizon in the competences of the european union and the member states to address two issues, as mr frattini has said: immigration and radical islamist terrorism? that debate is urgent and until it takes place, until it has a result, it will not allow proper and adequate progress in these matters. this is a pre-constitutional debate. it is certainly the most important factor in the fear europeans have of their future. that is why this is a pre-constitutional debate and why, mr frattini and members of the council, it is a debate that cannot be postponed. it is impossible to have a european union in a decade without an immigration policy. it's impossible to imagine a united states of america that has as many immigration policies as states have. it is impossible to think that in an emerging phenomenon such as islamist terrorism - which has dared to go from bombing a bus to bombing an airplane, from attacking cartoons to attacking the pope directly, that is to say, an emerging phenomenon - we do not yet have, in the face of the european union and its institutions, a political role that is recognisable to the citizens. it may be little, it may be a lot, it may be a lot, but the serious thing is that today the citizens of europe do not know what the european union is doing, either in the matter of immigration or in the matter of terrorism. that is why this debate is urgent. that is the pending pre-constitutional debate and that is the great debate that we europeans will have in the coming months.
mr president, mr frattini, mr rajamäki, the thousands of people who have died in the atlantic and the mediterranean have made a mistake and it is that they were born people. if commodities or currency had been born, if possible pounds, dollars or euros, the reaction of the european union would have been different, very hospitable. but, my friends, people were born. and they have committed the terrible crime of moving from their country fleeing hunger or war to try to live in peace. that is the crime they have committed. i ask, i beg the commission and the council, not to discuss terrorism and immigration on the same agenda again. it's an affront to civilization. i beg and plead with you not to do it again. because if they do, they give rise to interventions like that of mr le pen - 'fascists, racists, xenophobes' - or to actions like those of countries which are european but not members of the union, such as switzerland, which are very hospitable to financial flows, to bank flows, but to people, and even put the asylum application at risk. that is not the message that the european union should be giving. so i think that a strong correction is needed, they are people and they have to be given a civilized response.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank president cavada for having raised a debate on an absolutely essential subject, namely the area of freedom, security and justice. let me focus on the issue of immigration. mr minister, it's been seven years since tampere. i was in charge of something else. it was there that work began on immigration and a common immigration policy, and today the vice-president of the commission, mr frattini, gave a speech full of passion and facts, setting out that policy. i believe that this year the commission has begun to react seriously and that this has been helped by the help of a number of countries, especially those most affected: the countries of the south. he's made a lot of promises for the future. but will vice-president frattini allow me, while agreeing with him on the need for a common policy and for a unit of command and coordination which he has assumed in the commission, to remind him also that 'acts are loves and not good reasons'. in the budget for last year, which is due to be paid off, 80% of the immigration budget has been left unspent. i remember that when the canary islands incident happened, the commissioner's spokesman said there was no money. i would also point out that the money needed cannot be obtained from development cooperation, because it means 'stripping off one saint to clothe another'. i think that has its importance too. it has promised us an active investment policy; i think that, in relation to africa, it is the 'push effect' - which is what really matters, because it is quite stupid to think that africans are reading all day long the official journal of the communities or the official bulletins of all the countries - which must lead us to a common policy, to common criteria for immigration and to an active policy in relation to our needs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i welcome the step that has been taken, but i hope it will have serious consequences for the future. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i am very pleased to note that there is a high degree of consensus on the starting premise: that the phenomenon of immigration is a current and growing phenomenon and that it will not stop despite the will of some to put up barriers or walls on the sea. the question now is, as has also been said, to regulate these migratory flows, but to regulate them on the basis of policy and, more specifically, european policy. because let us be clear, the people who come to the canaries do not come to the canaries, they pass through the canaries, it is a gateway to europe; it seems that some colleagues from other countries have not yet understood this. they're not going to the canaries for a holiday, it's a way into the european union. and this is where we have to put the media. we cannot leave the responsibility for dealing with this issue solely to the canary islands or the spanish authorities. i therefore do not understand, and even less do i share, their reluctance to use the catwalk process, to communitarianise this issue from a collective responsibility point of view. i do not understand why there is such fear and such reluctance to adopt a european version of a matter that cannot be read any other way. let me add another concern, namely that of delegating, using the ostrich policy, the responsibility for managing these flows to countries well known for their lack of respect for human rights, such as morocco or libya, for example.
mr president, the wrong policy of the spanish government is flooding the union with 'undocumented' people. spain is already a country of destination and a country of transit. no more mass regularization of the economy. we have to be able to say how many and who can live with dignity among us. what can we do? there are national solutions and community solutions. at community level, we must move towards the objective of a common immigration policy. it is crucial to take advantage of the possibilities provided for in the ec treaty, in particular article 67 (2), and to apply the codecision procedure to legal immigration. we will have to put into practice policies such as the following, mr president: greater cooperation between member states, equal rights and obligations for all immigrants, conditional association and cooperation policies, bilateral agreements between the union and the countries of origin, including mandatory readmission clauses. no, again no, to the national processes of massive regularisation, yes to the constant improvement of the means and the reinforcement of the capacities of frontex, to the coordination of controls at maritime borders, to the creation of patrols and joint border control teams, to the securing of the external borders of the union and to the external action of the union. solana and ferrero to africa and the mediterranean. all this, in addition to the necessary humanitarian treatment that illegal immigration requires and which we wholeheartedly support. aid, humanitarian assistance and return. no one should remain on european territory outside the law. mr. president, a protest not to break my tradition. this is a good debate, but it is a totum revolutum to go into nothing. i object to that. we are talking about immigration, we are talking about terrorism, we are talking about the passage clause, we are talking about organized crime. mr president, let us take advantage of this lesson and have a monograph debate.
mr president, the european union is playing with its credibility in the eyes of millions of citizens. if the european union cannot protect its own borders in a common way, what is the point of it? there is only one external border in europe and it is everyone's responsibility. african immigrants are not coming in through the north pole, mr minister, or the baltic sea coast, but they are coming into europe, which is everyone's europe. it's just that everyone has their geography, and that's god-given, some would say. it is not charity that some member states are asking for here, but consistency with the european project which is so much on everyone's lips, so easy to preach when one speaks of the internal market in financial services or the common market in goods. on the other hand, when it comes to borders, it seems that each member state has its own borders without the others having to be held responsible for it. it is not charity, it is consistency, it is responsibility for the european project, it is playing with the credibility of the european union.
mr president, the need for a major european pact on immigration is clear. this pact between europeans is a pact between spaniards. the government has repeatedly proposed this and the pp has rejected it, preferring to come late to brussels to propose measures that are already being implemented in our country with the support of the european union. let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, by telegram, of the three pillars of the spanish government's immigration policy. firstly, the effective planning and management of legal immigration linked to the reality of the labour market. ladies and gentlemen, the 'call effect' is caused by the underground economy; we want workers with rights and obligations, not slaves. the extraordinary normalisation has been a necessary and timely measure to put order into the migration disaster left to us by the aznar government. secondly, full social integration of legal immigrants into spanish society. finally, firmness in the fight against illegal immigration: every immigrant who enters spain illegally is treated with dignity, but must return to his country. this year in spain, 54,000 illegal immigrants have been repatriated. (the president cut the speaker off)
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the votes: see minutes)
the greens/efa group proposes to swap the order of paragraphs 28 and 29 and to group them together in one paragraph. does anyone have an objection? (parliament approves this change) the greens/efa group also proposes inserting paragraph 30 before paragraph 22. does anyone object?
the greens/efa group also proposes inserting paragraph 33 before paragraph 31 and grouping the two paragraphs into one. does anyone object?
we have now finished the voting and we are now going to vote on the explanations of vote.
this closes this spot.
mr president, at a time when we still want to, although i do not know if we can, keep our hopes in the peace agreement signed last may, we are witnessing the deterioration of the humanitarian situation in the region, which has already been described by many of my colleagues. the european parliament is speaking once again on the situation in darfur and, in my case, to join my voice to that of the victims: the civilian population, the women and children of darfur. since the outbreak of the armed conflict three years ago, there have been increasingly desperate appeals from humanitarian agencies. it was all for nothing. the more than 50 000 dead, two and a half million internally displaced persons and 500 000 refugees tell the tragedy of a region in conflict better than anyone else. my group, in its resolution, expressed its grave concern at the violation of the rights of children and girls and the widespread use of rape as a weapon of war. unfortunately, this has not been included in the compromise resolution, as if it were of no importance. the hundreds of thousands of children who have been killed, disappeared, sexually abused, kidnapped, displaced, used as soldiers and then abandoned, etc., and who also have no access to humanitarian aid, are listed by name and surname. we are all guilty, not just the khartoum government and the military or guerrilla factions. impunity is total despite sudan having ratified the convention on the rights of the child and its optional protocol on children in armed conflict. we also have concrete data indicating that last august more than 200 women were sexually assaulted in one single camp, as we have been told by humanitarian organizations. these figures continue to speak of the infernal spiral into which darfur is sinking and in which, once again, the bodies of women and girls are the battlefield chosen many times by soldiers and guerrillas. in another displaced persons camp, to speak of things that are happening today, women instead of being protected have been raped and are forbidden to reach... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, when the un humanitarian coordinator, jean egeland, reminded us in august that the situation in darfur was the worst since 2004, he was also reminding us, once again, that the time has long since come to resolve this situation. the un insists, it is true, that a un mission must be sent to the ground, but it is also true, as has been said, that the opposition of the sudanese government makes this more difficult. however, as the international crisis group so often reminds us, it is our obligation to apply what is called the responsibility to protect. we have a responsibility to protect and we cannot inhibit ourselves from it. three very concrete things can be done in relation to darfur: first, in a very direct way, to apply sanctions directly to any actor, including the government, who is currently violating the ceasefire or who is directly attacking humanitarian operations and, as has also been said in a specific way, and i stress, to the civilian population, particularly women. secondly, the african union can and must be used even more extensively to get the different parties to accept at least part of the darfur peace agreement, but for this it is also necessary to have the support of the international partners, including the european union. finally, and this is the most important thing, the un security council must speed up the process of sending un forces to the ground, precisely under the clear statute or mandate of chapter 7 of the un charter. otherwise, we'll have a hard time stopping this slaughter.
madam president, the role and prospects of women in international trade are something that has not yet been sufficiently analysed and promoted by governments and trade policy makers. little is known about the impact of trade on women and the effect of gender inequalities on trade is also unknown. there are few known examples of concrete policies in the sector to promote equality between men and women. this lack of knowledge is due to the lack of sufficient gender-disaggregated data in trade statistics and also to the lack of a gender perspective in economic analyses and modelling. the trade sector must and can contribute to equality between men and women. in this respect, we welcome, for example, the decision of the norwegian government to impose by law a quota of 40% of female representation on the boards of public limited companies. in my country, spain, a law is also being considered, the so-called equality law, which includes the obligation of a balanced presence of men and women on the boards of directors of companies, with a balanced presence meaning that the number of persons of each sex should not exceed 60% and should not be less than 40%. we therefore welcome mrs breyer's amendment calling on the commission to draw up a legislative proposal in this respect as well. i take this opportunity, mrs breyer, to offer my sincere congratulations on your work.
madam president, thank you very much for your presence. i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, as do all my colleagues, on this timely report, since, as has been said, there is no denying the serious economic situation in the fisheries sector, which has been aggravated, particularly in the last two years, as has also been said, by the rising fuel prices. but just when we have to face this situation, it is regrettable that the commission's communication lacks commitment and support, and only proposes measures which, in any case, would only be a long-term solution and, even then, through the most painful solutions to be faced by the sector, such as the restructuring of the fleet. however, in the face of this situation, short-term solutions are also necessary and the commission is completely opposed to them. not only are the de minimis aids announced ridiculous compared with those offered to other productive sectors, but the commission is still breaking its promise to publish the regulation authorizing them, which we have been waiting for for over two years. this is not understandable when, moreover, this type of aid is exclusively national and therefore does not impose any additional burden on the union budget. as mr guerreiro has said, we have just come from a visit to the algarve, a few months before we were in greece and we all know the situation of fisheries in our own countries and therefore i think that this document is the minimum support that policy makers owe to the fisheries sector at the present time. i therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled this morning in the house.
madam president, our assessment of this commission communication is generally positive, since we believe that it responds to the demands of the sector, in the sense of seeking solutions that allow the profitability and sustainability of the fisheries sector and that ensure a viable future for it. we also welcome the excellent work done by the rapporteur, mr guerreiro. we also tell the commission that we consider it necessary to deepen and extend some of the measures contained in that communication, for example those relating to the improvement of marketing or those relating to research for the development of more efficient energy use. we also need more ambition in promoting innovative actions that allow fishermen to have a greater presence in the commercial chain and to obtain an improvement in their living and working conditions and also in their level of training. i welcome the commission's proposal to revise the current common fisheries policy. improving the marketing of fish and fishery products would, commissioner, increase their added value.
the rapporteur. madam president, outside my speaking time - since it has nothing to do with the matter before us, since it is more a question of order - i would like to make a request to the president of this parliament on the basis of an incident which has just happened to me. i was just 15 minutes ago walking out of the hemiciclo into the corridor behind here and looking at the canal waters in peace, when i was literally run over by a convoy which i later learned was surrounding the president of lebanon. so far, nothing we haven't seen countless times in this house. what struck me, president borrell, was the attitude of the two people with the parliament's identification, who opened the procession. first they waved at me. then i heard voices: "mettez-vous sur le côté!" they said, and i don't know if you know this, but the "côté" back here is made of plates with holes through which the women's heels slip, which makes it very easy to fall. i was trying to avoid going "sur le côté". i told them - i have to put it this way - that i was a member of parliament, but i can assure you that it did not help much. they practically rolled me over to where they wanted me: "sur le côté immédiatement!" mr president, in the case of the house staff, the unforgiving schedule of these evening sittings, i would ask you, if possible, to find other methods of dealing with members or perhaps other ways of getting visitors out. that said, mr president, i shall now move on to the matter at hand. i therefore turn to fish belonging to the elasmobranchii taxon, which are generally very vulnerable to exploitation, due to the characteristics of their life cycle. the practice known as 'finning', which involves cutting off the fins and discarding the hull, is prohibited for community vessels, both in maritime waters under the sovereignty of the member states and in international waters and those of third countries. however, since these species are part of by-catches, the european union adopted a regulation on sharks' finning on 26 june 2003. the regulation allows the handling of sharks on board the vessel by separating fins and bodies, if this makes more efficient use of all parts, by storing fins and the rest of the animal separately on board. to control the practice of 'finning', the number of fins should correspond to the number of bodies and for this purpose a ratio or proportion to the total live weight is established, which was set in 2003 at 5% of fins to live weight. this 5% was decided on the basis of us legislation designed for a different reality and for different shark species and presentations. the scientific reports of ices and iccat confirm that this ratio is not applicable to pelagic species caught by the community fleet, whose physiognomy implies fin sizes much larger than those of shark fins. i would point out that the 5% currently in force and the 6.5% proposed for a single species - in this case the dyer - are in line with the latest scientific reports. in any case - and i point this out to the commissioner - the main objective of community legislation must be to strengthen the ban on the practice of 'finning', but i also point out that, for a standard to be effective and accepted by all parties, it must reflect the specificities of the fleets, the morphology of the different species and calculation methods which include the cutting technique and the presentation methods used. in addition, commissioner, this is a very specific and very identifiable fishery and, therefore, the recognition of these issues would make it possible to avoid situations of infringement for the european union's long-line fleet, which is currently forced to dispose of part of the fins in order to comply with the regulation, since more than 80% of the catches correspond to the species i have already mentioned prionacea or tintorera, whose ratio is, as we have said, 6.5%. i would say to the commission that not using realistic conversion factors is a risk for the european union itself, because it generates errors in the estimates of catches, estimates which are obtained indirectly from the international market for fins in asian countries, where they are listed as european origin. at the same time - and i say this to the commissioner - the updating of this percentage in view of, i repeat, scientific data and reports would enable the community to take immediate lead in the review which, following the recommendation of its own scientific committee, is to take place within the iccat and which will probably be followed by other rops. i would stress that the requested increase does not in any way mean an increase in the capture of sharks or a relaxation of the measures to prevent the practice of 'finning'.
thank you very much, mrs. miguelez. i take good note of your complaint. i shall inform the head of parliament's security service of this for appropriate purposes.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i hope the commission will maintain its firm stance against attempts to reduce the requirements for shark finning. with this proposal, sharks may be even more threatened than they already are. it is not clear from scientific studies how much the ratio should be increased; there is even a study by the international union for the conservation of nature which limits the ratio to 2%. we must look for all the scientific information, because this amendment is intended to change the rule so that the percentage of the weight of the fins in relation to the bodies of the sharks can be increased and thus more and more catches would be thrown into the sea. sharks are being wiped out in the oceans, to satisfy an asian whim of cooking soup with their fins, and that's not right. it is difficult to monitor what happens on the high seas and there is ample evidence that many member states are not monitoring compliance with community legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species.
mr president, i am surprised by commissioner borg's statements when he says that legislation which is recent cannot be changed. i think that if the legislation is not right, it must be updated. that's exactly what the iccaa 2005 report says about shark ratios. according to that report, the ratio applied to the prionacea glauca is wrong. moreover, scientists at the iccaa are calling for it to be corrected. the first is that landing data from the wrong coefficient can mislead their estimates, and the second is that the discrepancy in the ratio hinders fleet control because it is an impossible standard to meet, so control is pointless. this is shown, commissioner, in the report you have sent to this parliament. i would ask you, commissioner, mr president, to update and regularize the legislation once and for all, otherwise there will be a serious lack of confidence in the sector by having rules which, as i said, are impossible to comply with. i would also like to hear from some of the people who have spoken here claiming that there are scientific reports, at least one, endorsed by the international scientific community, which contradicts what the iccat said at the last plenary meeting of the regional fisheries organisation which regulates all these species. i ask that we act rationally, that we do things right, that we review the coefficients and that we choose those which can be met by the fleet. i would also like to say that the problem of overfishing cannot be solved by ratios. in any case, it would be solved by quotas for sharks.
member of the commission. madam president, i should like to thank honourable members for their contributions. the only problem that has been raised substantively relates to the whole issue concerning 5% versus 6.5%. in this regard, i should say that the ratio between fin weight and body weight varies significantly depending on the shark species concerned. scientific information was already available at the time the regulation was adopted, especially as regards the blue shark. the council, however, did not consider that a species-dependent approach was appropriate, and the maximum 5% fin- versus live body-weight ratio set in the regulation was certainly not presented as being based on scientific considerations alone. the 5% fin- to body-weight requirement represents the only current restriction on a number of shark species caught in fisheries, notably the blue shark. this should not be reviewed, at least until other management measures are in place to reduce their fishing mortality. i have no problem with further research, but this has to be done before any amendments are proposed. again, i have no problem with regular reviews. i have made reference to an overall consideration of a community plan of action for sharks, when we will have ample time to discuss this and other issues concerning conservation of sharks. on the point raised by mr davies concerning the plan of action, the eu has not yet formalised a plan of action for sharks. nevertheless, many of the actions that would constitute such a plan of action are already incorporated into community legislation or other initiatives under the cfp. the eu has taken considerable management action with regard to sharks, for example the improvement of data collection for large pelagic shark species, the establishment of catch limits for certain shark species, skates and rays in the north sea, deepwater sharks in the north-east atlantic, prohibiting trawl fisheries within littoral areas in the mediterranean, banning the use of driftnets that may catch large pelagic sharks, prohibiting shark finning and establishing specific conditions under which only the removal of fins of sharks may be authorised – which is what we are discussing today – and the control and limitation of fishing capacity. it is important to note that many of these measures apply to ec vessels, irrespective of whether or not they operate in ec waters. such measures should also be promoted in the international context, especially in other fmos where we support measures to ensure appropriate management in respect of high-sea fisheries. the commission’s departments are currently reflecting on whether a formal plan of action for sharks should be developed in the very near future and i am favourably inclined to doing so. however, considering the importance of the work to be done, the necessary collection of information, reflection and consultation and assessment of possible measures, it would not be realistic to set the finalisation date of any comprehensive commission proposal for a plan of action for sharks within the time limit indicated in amendment 8.
thank you very much, the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr friedrich-wilhelm graefe zu baringdorf, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eec) no 2092/91 on organic production and indications referring thereto in agricultural products and foodstuffs (com (2005) 0671 - c6-0033/2006 - 2005/0279 (cns)) (a6-0253/2006).
member of the commission. mr president, thank you for the opportunity, even if it is fairly late, to speak about our proposals for new import provisions for organic products. and thank you, mr graefe zu baringdorf, for the valuable report. with more than 150 000 holdings on 4.4 million hectares, an estimated turnover of almost eur 11 billion in 2002 and a clear tendency to further growth, this is a very important sector. considering the very wide range of products on the market and the number of processed products that contain one or more imported ingredients, it is clear that imports are vital for the development of the organic sector within the european union. we need to be sure that consumers are confident that the products that they buy as being organic really are so, whether they are imported or produced within the european union and that there is no unfair competition for european organic producers. at the same time, we need to make firm arrangements for our trading partners so that organic production can continue to increase. since 1992, imported products have been able to enter the european union either from third countries that are recognised by the community as providing equivalent official guarantees – there are now seven countries on that list and about the same number of applicant countries – or through member state authorisations for the entry of specific consignments. the latter system derogates from the common rules, which expire at the end of 2006. with this proposal, we want to fill the gap between that date and 1 january 2009, the date of entry into force of the overall proposal we have submitted, which contains exactly the same provisions on imports as we have on the table tonight. there is no difference between what we are proposing now and what will be included in the main proposal entering into force on 1 january 2009. we propose to keep the third country list as it is, but to replace member state authorisations with a permanent community system. finally, our proposal provides for direct access for fully compliant products in order to respect our international trade obligations. i have noted that the report calls for extra guarantees on this last possibility of direct access. i do not think that our positions on this issue are very far apart. we want to go as far as we can in requesting guarantees from third country operators that are willing to take that route, but without putting ourselves in a position where we could be challenged by the wto system. therefore, i can partially accept amendments 1 and 2. to a great extent, i can agree in principle to your other amendments, but i would prefer to keep this proposal as concise and simple as possible, setting out all the main rules needed, but not more than that. further details should, in my view, go into the future implementing rules. i have also noted with pleasure the great willingness to support the development of the local control bodies in third countries. this is a policy element that i support, but it does not belong in this regulation. (the president cut off the speaker)
i beg your understanding. i'm so sorry, but we have to adjust to a time that is already off the charts. the rapporteur has five minutes. i'm going to ask you to use only four.
thank you very much. i ask all colleagues to understand that interpreters finish their working hours at 12 noon. we can hold out a few more minutes, but not much longer. i do not want to risk that we will not have an interpretation tomorrow and you should not take that risk either, so i would simply ask you to stick to the time you have been allotted. mr graefe zu baringdorf said he was going to speak the five minutes he was allotted and he did. you've spoken exactly the five minutes you were supposed to. so you have no reason to protest.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i will take my time. the commission put forward two legislative proposals at the end of 2005: a proposal for a regulation on organic production, which will replace the current regulation from 2009, and the proposal we are now discussing on the import regime. as regards imports, improvements to the community system were both desirable and urgent, particularly in order to simplify once and for all the system for authorizing imports from third countries where there is no general equivalence in organic products and to facilitate market access for organic products, which currently have a weak administrative structure. my group considers that the proposed amendment has these laudable aims. i would like to draw attention to the fact that this cannot and should not be achieved by reducing the guarantees to consumers - as the commissioner herself has very well said - on the organic product being imported or by creating unfair competition for the european operator. i think these are the two risks we can take. the need for inspection procedures which take account of these risks and are based on clear standards is therefore very great, and that is why it is so necessary to regulate at european level the recognition and accreditation of certification bodies. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work and the work that has been done in the committee on agriculture and rural development. but having said that, and briefly, i would like to remind you that we are talking about only one part of the regulation on organic products. the report on the regulation is at a standstill because, among other things, the rapporteur claims that she has not received all the documentation from the european commission. i take this opportunity to urge the commission to do everything in its power to put an end to this situation and to allow the report to proceed, to go beyond the parliamentary procedure and to enable us to establish clear, simple and effective rules for this market, which will avoid the uncertainty in which organic producers are now found.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank members for all their comments, although some of them seem to be related more to the general regulation on organic products. i hope that next time we have a discussion on this issue we will have a bit more time so that i can go into more detail. regarding amendment 13, a meaningful report cannot be drawn up before the first list of control bodies has been functioning for longer; in any case, not before the date of entry into application of the full regulation on 1 january 2009. the idea of training of local certifiers is a good one, and we will have to find ways of planning this training. training support and technical assistance is also foreseen in the official food and feed control regulation. the idea raised by the rapporteur of a databank seems to be difficult to implement, but i would be willing to look further into it. the requirement for the control bodies to be accredited in the context of the list of third countries in paragraph 4 is not applicable, as there is governmental supervision in these cases. for the control bodies that are listed in paragraph 5, i agree in principle to the request for formal accreditation, but adequate governmental supervision should also be acceptable as an alternative in that situation. we should also be able to show some flexibility to local bodies in developing countries and in countries at an early stage of development, from whom it is not always feasible to have international accreditation. i agree with the idea of the supervision of control bodies – i think that it is crucial and essential. but we would prefer a more general wording on supervision. more detailed rules can be set out in the implementing rules; but, as mentioned in my introduction, i would prefer to have a very simple and concise proposal. to conclude, amendments 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 12, 13, 15 and 16 are partially acceptable or acceptable in principle. the other amendments cannot be accepted. thank you for the debate. i think – maybe not in the letter, but at least in spirit – we are heading in the same direction.
thank you very much, madam commissioner. i beg your pardon. understand the limitations of time. despite everyone's efforts, we finished almost a quarter of an hour later than planned. i would like to thank the interpreters for their understanding in allowing us to conclude the debate with all the restrictions i regret i have had to impose on them. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would like to say that the greens are not against nanotechnology, but we must do things right. otherwise, we will never have the necessary consumer confidence, we will not be able to take advantage of the great potential benefits of this technology and the investments will have been wasted. those who disregard caution are not friends of nanotechnology, quite the opposite. right now, we're pushing the accelerator on the nanotechnology machine without first checking if we have emergency brakes or even knowing if the steering is working. nanoparticles are already being used on a massive scale in sensitive consumer products such as cosmetics, detergents, paints and textiles. our concern is that we may be setting the stage for a major health scandal in the future. they're not unfounded fears. the european scientific committee stated and recalled in its opinion of 28 and 29 september last year that there are significant gaps in the knowledge needed for risk assessment, for example in relation to the characterisation of nanoparticles, their detection and measurement, data, doses, responses, evolution, persistence of nanoparticles in humans and the environment and all aspects of environmental toxicology. the same committee insists that we do not even have the methods to assess the risks. we're talking about items that have a very different value. the main problem is that the uncontrolled release of nanoparticles can be much more dangerous than that of conventional particles, because nanoparticles are much more chemically reactive and are easily oxidized, and can produce very reactive radicals that are harmful to the human body. nanotubes can even behave in the body in a similar way to asbestos fibers. and we all know what happened with the asbestos. once released into the environment, very little is known about the behaviour and reaction of nanoparticles and a strong research push is needed from the european union in this field. however, at present only a small, very small fraction of research investment is devoted to precautions and we have no regulation at all, we have no legal framework for using these products. we cannot have a policy of marketing these products first and asking questions later. we need a policy of caution to take firm steps with this technology.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report and to mention the importance which the european union must continue to attach to scientific research and technological development in nanosciences and nanotechnologies, which are also one of the thematic priorities of the seventh framework programme. as the previous speakers have said, nanoscience and nanotechnology are considered to be key technologies for the 21st century, with important implications for our industry. it is a multidisciplinary field that opens up a whole range of new opportunities and solutions to real needs of citizens and businesses, and is therefore expected to make a major contribution to the european union's achievement of its objectives in terms of sustainable development and competitiveness. the european union is certainly a leader in this field, although it invests considerably less in r & d in this field than the united states and japan. i share the rapporteur's view that the european union must strengthen this leadership to consolidate and strengthen our position in a highly competitive world context and in a very promising sector. this requires not only better investment in r & d, but also ensuring research excellence, sufficient qualified staff, better coordination of resources and policy coordination with member states, and further improving the business environment, mainly by modernising our smes and creating new ones based on knowledge, so that excellent r & d in nanosciences and nanotechnologies translates into new products and new processes. european technology platforms related to nanosciences and nanotechnologies contribute to the establishment of common research priorities and objectives of interest to industry. i would also like to stress the importance of international cooperation. ladies and gentlemen, we must not put obstacles in the way of scientific progress, we must support our researchers, who know the pros and cons of this field better than anyone else. what is certain is that for citizens to trust science, it is necessary to disseminate scientific advances in an understandable way and to improve the level of information to the public, in order to achieve a greater understanding of the real challenges and implications for our lives.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the day before yesterday, when we met the president of liberia and briefly tried to explain to her the main efforts being made by the european parliament in the field of development cooperation, we insisted that for the socialist group the commitment was twofold: to unlock more resources for this task for us a priority among the responsibilities of the european union and to achieve maximum efficiency in the use of available resources, in order to obtain tangible results in overcoming an increasingly serious and insurmountable challenge. in this respect, the report prepared by my colleague and friend alain hutchinson is a document of extraordinary importance, both for its rigour and depth and for the timing of its production: at a time when public opinion in the european union is becoming aware that, both as a principle of solidarity and because of the exodus of migrants fleeing underdevelopment to our countries, there is no alternative but to contribute with all our forces from europe to the development and stabilisation of the countries of the south. the hutchinson report and its very notable draft resolution, which we are sure to adopt by an overwhelming majority, are not just one document among many which we are debating in this parliament. i am not going to go into the content of the report now, because i fully agree with what you have said. i would say that it is particularly relevant on a day like today, when a few hours ago it seems that the negotiations on the new legal instrument for financing our development cooperation have come to a successful conclusion. i would also say that the report is a piece of genuine doctrine and contains a great many ideas and proposals which the council and especially the commission will have to take very seriously if the effectiveness of our cooperation work is to continue to improve. we in the european parliament, our committee on development and certainly my socialist group must commit ourselves to ensuring that what alain hutchinson proposes to us does not remain on wet paper or in a simple declaration of good intentions. we must strive to make it a kind of guide for action, so that the efficiency we achieve in this area contributes to obtaining more and better objective results, which also justify the release of more significant and generous budgets in an area that has ceased to be a secondary, peripheral item or minor mechanism to give us a good conscience, to become a really prominent priority in the policies of the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i rise to speak on behalf of my colleague, evelin lichtenberger, who is unable to attend this afternoon. we always speak about a competitive, knowledge-based europe, but some people put so little trust in europe’s potential that they prefer to strengthen a non-eu body – the european patent office – to the detriment of european union interests. if what we want is harmonised jurisdiction, why do we not pursue that aim through eu directives? that would be the most obvious way to proceed. some people are afraid to face the democratic process. after the software patent fight, apparently there are people who are worried about the amendments that the european parliament would propose. therefore they want to proceed as undemocratically as possible. they want to put the fate of europe’s companies in the hands of the patent bureaucracy instead of elected policymakers. furthermore, the cost of litigations would be tough to meet for smes because every litigation concerning an epo patent would go directly before a new international court – a real own-goal for europe’s competitiveness. i should like to draw your attention to the fact that some big multinationals such as nokia and glaxosmithkline are very concerned about such a proposal. if this proposal neither helps smes nor is welcomed by big countries, who will help? what we can infer for sure is that it will only increase the work for some patent lawyers. europe does not need merely more patents: it needs more high-quality patents that foster real innovation. the number of patent applications filed at the european patent office per year has, over the last seven years, increased by about 60%. however, that number does not correspond to an increase in innovative activity, therefore giving us cause for concern over an extension of the scope of patent office subject matter. we will keep repeating to our colleagues, and especially to the commissioner, that only a community framework creates the conditions for an effective, competitive european patent law at international level.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr mccreevy on his efforts to build an internal market, particularly in the area of patent law. however, i have to tell you that the european parliamentarians are here on behalf of our constituents, and the reactions i have received from the industrial constituents of my country are negative with regard to this proposal. they are for different reasons: the language issue - i think the proposed solution is a much worse solution than the one we have in the office for harmonization in the internal market, which offers a greater plurality of languages - and the jurisdiction issue, which has already been discussed here. we have our own jurisdiction, which is that of the court of justice of the european communities and the court of first instance, and the creation or multiplication of jurisdictions outside the european union raises a number of problems which we must take into account. in short, i have the impression that this proposal, like the previous ones, is likely to fail because it does not take these elements into account. it is a question of making progress on patents, but to do so we must have a broad political base. firstly, i would say that at the moment there is no confidence in judicial procedures which are projected outside the structure of the european union - we have great confidence in those magnificent institutions which are the court of justice and the court of first instance - and secondly, the linguistic issue is not an accidental issue. i know that there are many who have a more universal language, but within the european union we have sought solutions to the language problem, because the european union includes several cultures, several models, several legal systems, which have to coexist. i hope that the commissioner and the commission in general will reflect on this and be able to come up with a proposal that is acceptable to the european union as a whole.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 28 september 2006.
i must begin this session by giving you some bad news. first of all, i have the sad duty to announce the death of mr antoni gutiérrez díaz, who was a member of the european parliament for many years, from 1987 to 1999. as you know very well and as i know very well, having had the opportunity to get to know him a lot in the context of spanish political life, he was a member of the communist group and then of the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left, of which he was vice-president between 1992 and 1994. mr gutiérrez díaz was also vice-president of our parliament from 1994 to 1999 and chairman of the committee on regional policy, regional planning and relations with regional and local authorities from 1992 to 1994. to those of us who knew him, to those of us who knew him, his death causes us deep sorrow. i think the political life loses with him one of its best representatives. i invite you to observe a minute of silence in memory of our deceased colleague. (the house will be asked to rise and observe a minute's silence)
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. i think that the european parliament should pay tribute to this journalist, to her courage and her exceptional determination. as you know, following the announcement of his murder, i issued a press release calling on the russian authorities to do everything possible to establish, as quickly as possible, the causes and perpetrators of this terrible event. we hope that the identification of the culprits will be a test of the state of democracy and freedom of expression in russia. it is clear that this event, on the eve of the lahti meeting, has a special significance for us. on behalf of myself and the whole of the european parliament, i would like to reiterate here and now my sincere condolences to his family and loved ones. but i also think it is a good occasion to remind that the murder of journalists is, unfortunately, not an occasional occurrence. on the contrary, many people lose their lives defending freedom of expression and information. today, in russia, but before yesterday in lebanon, in many countries of latin america, in many countries of africa and southeast asia. people who fabricate information and create opinion sometimes do so at the risk of their lives. this last drop is no more or less important than the other drops that have not yet filled the glass. but i think that the death of anna politkovskaya and the 63 journalists killed and the more than 120 imprisoned deserve our respect. i invite you to observe a minute of silence for her and for the 63 journalists who have been killed in the line of duty. (the house will be asked to rise and observe a minute's silence)
mr. kelam, i can't give you the floor, please. mr. kelam, i can't give you the floor right now. we're asking if there are any comments to the minutes. you will have an opportunity to state your position on this matter during the one-minute question period. but now, if i may, we are in the process of approving the minutes. are there any comments to the minutes?
mr. kelam, this is not the time. you can do it another time, but i can't give you the floor now. i'm sorry about that, mr. kelam. i'm sorry about that. this is not the time to speak on behalf of the groups. we are at the point of approval of the minutes. on the minutes, are there any comments?
i'm sorry about that. the minutes are very clear what it means in spanish. it's very clear. we are talking about the adoption of the minutes and i assume that the interpreters are able to translate to you what we are talking about. do you have any comments on the minutes? if you do not have a reply, you will have the opportunity to comment on other items on the agenda below.
thank you very much, we'll make sure it's not a disaster this time, at least from the point of view of your valuation criteria. (the minutes were approved)
as regards today's and tomorrow's agenda, the corrigendum has been distributed to you, drawn up with the agreement of the political groups, which includes the following changes, in addition to those already announced on 28 september: - wednesday: we are therefore grateful to mr solana and mrs ferrero-waldner, who are here today. as regards the oral questions on footwear from china and vietnam, it should be noted that the council will not be taking part in this debate.
there is a change of title to the statement by the council and the commission on the informal lahti summit. the greens/efa group would like the title to be: statement by the council and the commission on the lahti informal summit, on eu-russia relations following the assassination of mrs anna politkovskaya, with a motion for a resolution on her murder and freedom of opinion in russia. you know that, according to our rules of procedure, this amendment must be approved by the house if the president considers it appropriate to put it to the vote. given the circumstances, i think it is appropriate to do so and i shall therefore ask the house to give its opinion on the proposal from the green group. does anyone wish to intervene?
you propose to separate the decision on the change of title from the decision on the admissibility of a decision. so, we'll just vote on the title change for now. (parliament adopted the amendment)
mr rack, the president and the bureau are trying to apply the rules of procedure strictly. the bureau had received no more than a proposal to amend the agenda in this respect in writing before the beginning of the sitting. mr kelam can express himself perfectly at the right time, which is not this.
if there are no objections, we will discuss whether or not there is a resolution at the next session. mr. kelam, do you wish to add anything?
thank you very much, mr. kelam. i think that's clear. we have followed our rules of procedure to the letter. i do not think that there was any lack of consideration on the part of the presidency towards mr kelam in giving him the floor at the appropriate time.
let's see, gentlemen, let's not play cat and mouse. there was a proposal from mr poettering, and i asked if there was consensus on it. no one has risen up at this time to say otherwise. mr saryusz-wolski, you are watching the debates! there has been a proposal and i asked if there was consensus on it. since no one objected, i have continued with the agenda. the matter is closed. (the order of business is thus established) for other changes in the order of business, see minutes.
the next item is the statements by the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy and the commission on the north korean nuclear test.
high representative. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been summoned this afternoon, together with the commission, to make a brief assessment of the events which took place early monday morning, when a nuclear test was possibly carried out by the north korean government. and i say it was very likely a nuclear test, because the data we have at this point does not allow us to say 100 percent that it was. most likely, it was an explosion of a plutonium nuclear device, probably plutonium extracted from the yongbyon nuclear reactor, which was built in north korea in the 1980s or 1990s. the highest probability is that it was a nuclear test, an act which we therefore condemn with the strongest protest and which we also condemn because of the degree of irresponsibility which it has involved on the part of the north korean government in carrying it out. the nuclear test is not only a regional threat to the region in which north korea is located, but also a hostile act towards the stability and regional security of the world. it cannot be ruled out that such an act could have consequences for the arms race in the world in general. i would like to begin by saying that the behaviour of the countries in the region has been a calm behaviour, a responsible behaviour. i have had the opportunity, in the last 48 hours, to speak with all the countries involved in the region, from south korea to china to japan, and to russia and the united states of america. all the countries have reacted with the same firmness with which we europeans are reacting at the moment, but at the same time with the same serenity, trying not to let the situation develop in the undesirable direction. i would like to make it very clear that this act of condemnation has taken place just days after mr abe was elected prime minister of japan, who, in a gesture which honours him, had begun his inauguration with a visit to beijing, something which had not taken place for several years during the tenure of the former prime minister; after beijing moved to seoul, to make a full tour of the countries most affected by the presence of the north korean threat, and in the midst of that trip of generosity, of good neighbourliness, north korea decided to make this nuclear test. i would like to stress, in the direction of the condemnation expressed by all the countries in the region, but also in the interest of responsibility, the meeting that took place yesterday in the japanese diet, in which prime minister abe said very clearly that the nuclear option would not be japan's answer. i think it is an act of great responsibility on the part of the japanese government, which we should all accept and applaud. it is also important to see, from that point of view, that the response of the people's republic of china has also been constructive. you know that china was leading the so-called six-party talks, which, although they had not taken place since before the summer, were the way that was understood as the positive way to try to solve the problem of north korea's nuclear proliferation. i have spoken in the last few hours, as i said, with all the political leaders in the region, including the future secretary-general of the united nations, who is still at this moment the foreign minister of south korea. i have said that north korea is a threat to peace and security not only in the region, and i would also like to say that not only from the point of view of nuclear action, but also from the point of view of behaviour in the face of missile proliferation. as you know, north korea continues to produce, and perhaps illegally export, missile technology that can deliver bombs, whether nuclear or conventional, to other parts of the world. i would also like to say that this act by north korea is an act against its own people; north korea is a poor country where most of the population is hungry, where most of the population does not have the living conditions that we all would wish for them and whose government is spending millions of dollars to participate in the arms race and to achieve a nuclear capability that is totally unnecessary for the development and well-being of its citizens. i would also like to say that the reaction of the united nations security council since monday night has been correct; that of the members of the european union has been extremely correct. it is important to stress that even china has now made constructive statements about its readiness to cooperate in the adoption of a tough, clear and effective resolution to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons and to condemn north korea's behaviour. finally, i would like to say that the european union, which has unanimously and urgently condemned this act on monday morning at the right time, must also reflect on its commitment, its behaviour, in relation to north korea. it is a poor country, as i said, with which we have a less and less relationship, but with which we still have a humanitarian relationship, to which i am sure commissioner benita ferrero-waldner will refer. we will be following closely the developments in the coming days, and i will personally be in touch with the political leaders of all the countries in the region. mr president, before i close, i would like to condemn once again, in the name of the european union, the very likely nuclear explosion by north korea.
member of the commission. mr president, mr secretary-general, high representative of the council, the nuclear test which north korea claims to have conducted at gilju on the morning of 9 october is an extremely serious matter, which i unreservedly condemn. as the high representative just said, not only does it threaten regional stability in northeast asia, it also constitutes the latest in a series of challenges by kim jong-il to the international nuclear non-proliferation regime. following the announcement of its intention to carry out such a test last tuesday, north korea has proceeded in defiance of the near-unanimous advice and wishes of the international community. this action increases north korea's international isolation and it is difficult to see how it can serve the interests of the country's long-suffering population. as ever, north korea's motives are very opaque. it does not seem unreasonable, however, to regard this as a deliberate escalation and provocation by the dprk, possibly to test the ability of the international community to remain united. the european union has spoken out very clearly in response to this nuclear test and i am pleased to note that the international community has been swift, resolute and united in condemning these actions. the very forceful and clear-cut position of china is particularly significant and welcome. i have just come back from a trip to singapore and malaysia, and i can assure you that my colleagues are most concerned by this act by north korea. i am pleased that we will have an opportunity to discuss the eu's response at the general affairs council next week. but what should we do next? over the past decade, the european union has played an active role in support of wider international efforts to promote peace and stability on the korean peninsula. since the beginning of the humanitarian emergency in the early 1990s, we have been a major donor, delivering some eur 345 million in assistance since 1995. we also played our part in support of earlier non-proliferation efforts through the korean peninsula energy development organisation, and we have offered political support for the six-party talks, although we are not direct participants in that process. clearly, as a global player that has done its share in the past, we should now play our part again in response to what is clearly a global problem. the international community will have to take clear action. someone will have to talk to the north korean regime to bring it out of its very paranoid and aggressive posture, and the man who i believe has been designated as the next un secretary general might be the right person to do so. it is still a little early to say what action we should take, although various options are on the table. as a staunch advocate of multilateralism, the european union must pay particular attention to what is decided in the united nations. in line with the treaties, we look to the eu member states sitting on the security council to take due account of eu views as they participate actively in these important discussions in new york. i am pleased to note that the negotiations within the security council appear to be making good and rapid progress towards a substantive and clear resolution on this matter. with regard to humanitarian assistance, the population has suffered enormously, and therefore i would like to keep up the humanitarian assistance to these people in the future. they should not be put at risk and punished even more by the terrible regime. (applause) i would like to thank you.
i would like to say that the commission is aware of the fact that the north korean regime is a dictatorial regime, a stalinist regime, which has its country starving and which should devote its resources to a cause more noble than nuclear proliferation, rather than to the suspension of the six-party dialogue and the fact that it is outside the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. it is a threat to international security, mr president, because it seriously undermines the values of peace and stability in a particularly sensitive region of the world, south-east asia. that is why, mr president, it is very important that the international community reacts effectively and appropriately, and that is why it is good news, as mr solana and the commissioner have told us, that the permanent members of the security council and japan have met to examine a whole catalogue of sanctions to respond to this provocation. mr president, it would be good to know what the position of the council of the union is with regard to the list of measures or sanctions that can be applied to north korea at the united nations level, a list of sanctions ranging from the application of chapter vii of the united nations charter to article 41, which provides only for economic and trade sanctions. and i think, mr president, that it is excellent news that china, for the first time, has shown itself to be prepared to respond, in the context of the united nations and the security council, with an appropriate response and with the possible application of sanctions. mr president, this is a very paradigmatic case. we must not forget that iran is currently closely monitoring the evolution of this crisis. mr solana has been involved on behalf of the european union in resolving the nuclear escalation in iran; it is therefore clear that the international community in general and the european union in particular cannot remain blind, deaf or dumb to this provocation and must give a forceful, effective and appropriate response, which is in line with the values of peace, democratic consolidation, reconciliation and multilateralism that we in the european union defend.
it has nothing to do with a question of order, mr. matsakis. you've slipped on the list of speakers. i beg you not to violate the procedures for authorizing the use of the floor.
member of the commission. mr president, north korea’s latest challenge to the nuclear non-proliferation regime is clear, and deserves to be condemned in the most forceful terms. we all agree on that, but we also have to find the right, smart response, directed at the authorities responsible but sparing the population. we should also stay focused on the ultimate objective, which is to achieve verifiable denuclearisation of the korean peninsula, as the foundation for lasting peace and stability there, given the tense armed stand-off across the demilitarised zone. in the end, only diplomacy can achieve this goal. with regard to a possible analysis of the motivation for this, i am sure the reasons are manifold. the fact that it is misinterpreting the stance of the international community could be a result of the regime’s total isolation, but it could well also be aimed at enforcing bilateral talks, which it has not yet achieved. this week’s developments will make it harder than ever to relaunch the six-party talks, but, in the medium to long term, this framework remains the best chance for a lasting solution. i therefore sincerely hope that the resumption of talks will come sooner or later, even though the outlook now is not at all promising. the european union is not a direct participant in the six-party talks but, as a responsible global player with a clear stake in preserving regional stability, we have been profoundly supportive of this framework. we have also signalled that we stand ready to play a more active role, if the six-party talks find it useful. in the end, dialogue will be the answer to this very difficult, provocative situation. north korea’s stated objective is to increase its own security; this goal could be achieved through the six-party process, which is what we would recommend.
high representative. mr president, at the conclusion of this debate, there is a point which i think we have to underline. not a single member of the european parliament has spoken out against condemnation of north korea’s behaviour. i think that is a very important conclusion to this important debate. there may be some doubts about what to do next and how to deal with north korea in the future, but the fact that the test has been a source of concern for the international community – and that the international community has taken responsibility for addressing the issue – has been supported by all the members who have spoken in this debate. i think we should be happy about that, because on issues of this nature and of this degree of importance, the responsibilities of members of the european parliament are on a par with those of the members of the international community. there are different conclusions we can draw as to why the test was carried out and what the consequences are for the future. some of us have been to north korea. i have been there and talked to the country’s leader on several occasions. in kuala lumpur in july, i had the opportunity to talk with the foreign minister and he told me then that there was to be no return to the six-party talks. so it was almost certain by then that something of this nature might happen. we have to praise the chinese, who have been leading the six-party talks and standing their ground. this time, however, they unfortunately failed to convince north korea, and instead of a meeting, a nuclear test has taken place. i agree completely with those who have said that the non-proliferation treaty should be reviewed. mrs napoletano made that point most coherently and vehemently. i share her concern about the fact that the last revision of the non-proliferation treaty was a failure. it was a failure on the part of everybody involved in the revision, including the nuclear powers, some of which are member states of the european union. the non-proliferation treaty dates back to 1968. we have gone through five revisions already and none of them has been able to address the difficulties and loopholes involved in that treaty. that must be said. let us also point out, however, that north korea is not a signatory to the non-proliferation treaty. it abandoned the non-proliferation treaty in 2003, and therefore is under no obligation to comply with it. it abandoned the non-proliferation treaty because it did not want to admit inspectors, which is something that is mandatory under the non-proliferation treaty. as we are seeing today, and as we will see in the future, the non-proliferation treaty needs to be revised and updated. as i said, the treaty was drawn up in 1968. that is a long time ago in historical terms, and therefore we have to make an effort. the europeans can plead that these regimes be adapted to the realities of today and not to the realities of yesterday. i quite agree with that. as far as sanctions are concerned, i do not think that the security council can just make a statement. the security council has to act, otherwise other countries that are watching to see how the security council responds will draw the conclusion that the international community does not take an act of this nature seriously. remember what happened when pakistan did it? north korea was watching for the international community’s response to pakistan’s actions. and probably part of today’s situation is a reflection of what happened then. that does not mean, of course, that any sanctions must target the people of north korea, who have already suffered a great deal. they suffer politically, they suffer economically, they suffer in their daily lives. therefore, other things have to be put in place and taken into account. i think the most important kinds of sanctions that should be put in place are sanctions which prevent proliferation by north korea and prevent north korea from passing nuclear technology on to other states which might be looking to acquire such technology so that they too can move in the same direction. this is probably the most important step that the united nations security council can take. as far as diplomacy is concerned, everybody in this house will agree that diplomacy is what we like to do. we europeans like to solve complex, difficult problems with what we value most: our minds, our intelligence, our diplomacy. and there is no doubt that this problem is indeed complex and difficult.
before moving on to the next item on the agenda, i would like to ask mr pflüger to speak on a point of order, pursuant to rule 145 of our rules of procedure. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i'm afraid mr. brok couldn't have heard you. i hope someone will tell him.
mr. brok, no one is going to take action against you. you have made a remark and mr pflüger has thought it appropriate to make some comments on it, but that is the end of the story. this closes this spot.
we move on to the next item on the agenda. the council and commission statements on the preparation of the informal summit of heads of state and government in lahti and, in accordance with the decision of the plenary, the relations between the european union and russia following the assassination of anna politkovskaya will also be discussed.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i believe that there will be a debate with parliament in the coming months, because i confirm my personal and the commission's willingness to maintain a political dialogue with parliament, even when the negotiating phase with the united states of america is opened, which in my view must presuppose a mutual willingness to understand each other, which in turn is based on knowledge of the acts in question. i heard some of the honorable men speak about passing personal data to the cia: it's just not true! we must read the minutes, ladies and gentlemen! these records show that neither the cia nor any other american intelligence agency will have access to this data. that's a fact that's been documented in official documents that we've checked. the claim that we are handing over the data in question to uncontrolled intelligence services is false! so i am willing to engage in a dialogue, but on the basis of shared data. similarly, it is false to claim that data transmitted to the department of homeland security is then shared with all agencies. that is not so at all! we only pass on the data to the agencies that are charged with the institutional task of carrying out investigations, point one, and in the case of terrorism, point two. these are the two conditions that limit the addressees and the request for personal data must be made on a case-by-case basis, and undertakings specify what is meant by 'case-by-case'. in this respect, therefore, the agreement signed, and not yet ratified, is not at all different from the previous one. the latter may not be pleasant but it has not been changed or worsened. comments were made on the entry into force of the agreement: the commission has already made a number of proposals. you know very well, mr roure, that national parliaments have the right - and in some cases the duty - to ratify. but you also know as well as i do that this temporary agreement was negotiated in the utmost urgency to avoid the chaos to which mr cashman referred. chaos means the absence of rules and protection and the possibility for any company to sign an agreement. it is therefore clear that we will apply article 24 of the agreement, including the part where it provides for immediate entry into force. if we had to wait for all the ratifications, this agreement would come into force after july 2007, which means that the chaos we wanted to avoid would immediately occur. these are rules laid down in the treaties, not our own interpretation. "a suitable level of data protection is guaranteed", we have repeated: it's a formula that existed before. he asked me a serious question: how can we guarantee the citizen or the european union if this adequate level is not maintained? you are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the undertakings and the agreement provide for the possibility of terminating the agreement and possibly suspending it if it should become apparent that the 'adequate level of protection' has not been maintained. so there are appropriate instruments and, in the event of legal recourse, it is certainly not for me to determine in which cases a judge may invoke his jurisdiction. i have been objected to the existence of a cover letter which states that a certain jurisdiction, for example only the american jurisdiction, applies. but you know perfectly well that that letter is a unilateral act, not part of the agreement. the commission did not agree to jurisdictional provisions contained in a unilateral state department letter. it is therefore not at all true that we are taking away the right to jurisdiction. it will be up to the judges to decide who can and cannot act. that is certainly not the case in the agreement in question. i think there's another issue that's particularly important: the pull-push aspect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are highly technical but important questions. there are, however, some points which i cannot omit to answer now. it is simply not true that under the agreement the new push system, which this parliament wants, will come into operation when the americans want it to. on the contrary, it says that "by december at the latest, the system will be operational". the date is very clear and very close - it is a month and a half away - and as you know very well, there is a network of international airlines, part of the amadeus chain, which is already able to apply the push system from tomorrow. the technical capacity is there and there is now a legal basis, which was not in the previous agreement. this is certainly an improvement: the push system can be up and running as early as tomorrow. as regards the aspect of limiting the scope, someone - i believe mr velt - said that the transmission of data would no longer be motivated solely by the fight against terrorism but also by other objectives. paragraphs 3 and 34 of the undertakings, which have not been amended, provided and provide that in the presence of a vital interest, including in cases other than the specific investigation of terrorism, personal data may be requested. this is not new. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i fully agree with what mr cavada and mr cashman have said: we can also call it the 'transatlantic schengen' agreement - i like that expression too - but it is certain that a wide-ranging political negotiation will be required with the united states of america. we must establish once and for all - and this parliament must do the same - whether the united states is, as i believe, europe's first ally in the fight against terrorism, or whether it is a problem. i believe that they are the first allies in the fight against terrorism and it is clear that, just as we europeans have built the schengen area of security and the assertion of rights, we must start doing the same with the united states of america. otherwise, we risk forgetting that the problem is terrorism, not the united states.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, i am replacing my colleague peter mandelson in this debate. peter is currently on his way to the eu-india summit with minister lehtomäki and he really is on duty because we have many important trade policies to discuss with india. last week the council adopted the measures proposed by the commission to tackle the dumping of chinese and vietnamese footwear in the european union. these measures offer a balanced solution in a complex case; a solution which responds to the clear evidence of unfair competitive practices and state intervention which has enabled chinese and vietnamese companies to engage in dumping in the european union. the measures now adopted will help to redress the situation. they offer some comfort to footwear producers in the union while taking into account both the interests of consumers and the changing structure of the sector within the union, where many household names in the footwear sector now choose to manufacture outside the union. this is in fact a case study of our ability to respond to the challenges and opportunities presented by globalisation. the full findings of the investigation are set out in the measures which we published on 6 october, as well as the details of how we established the level of dumping and injury to eu industry and determined the appropriate level of duties in this case. this information is in the public domain and is of course, as in every other case, open to public and, ultimately, judicial scrutiny. with regard to the possible use of a deferred duty scheme, it is correct that the commission considered such an approach as a possible response to this case. such a novel approach would indeed have had certain advantages, but it did not command the support of a majority of member states. the commission listened to the concerns of the member states and in late august presented the measures which have just been adopted by the council. in formulating the level of duty, the commission applied the ‘lesser-duty rule’, which is part of our existing legal framework and entirely consistent with the international framework applying to anti-dumping. this rule allows the commission to set levels of duty which reflect the actual damage being suffered by eu industry rather than the level of dumping established in the investigation. this is not in itself a novel approach. at the same time, given the nature of this sector, where quotas on shoe imports applied up to 2005, this was an important factor which needed to be taken into account in determining the appropriate level of duty to be applied. nevertheless, the situation is specific to this particular case, and, while each case must be judged on its own merits, particularly when we face globalisation, it does not as such represent a fundamental change in the way we deal with trade defence cases. let me conclude by highlighting that the kinds of challenges posed in the shoes case cannot be ignored. this is why, as part of our push to strengthen our external competitiveness, the commission will publish a green paper in december looking at how our trade defence instruments operate in the context of economic globalisation. i am very much looking forward to that debate and i believe we need to work together to look for practical, sensible improvements that will reinforce the ability of europe’s businesses to compete fairly in a global marketplace. i am very much looking forward to parliament’s active participation in this debate.
i have two complaints, mr president, and i would add one, because i find what is happening in this house today absolutely intolerable. firstly, the contempt involved in changing the rules of parliament and making the substitute commissioner answer before i can ask. secondly, the absence of the council. there is no justification, and we have said this today in the conference of commission presidents: there is no justification for the absence of the council, especially because at the moment the role of the council in this matter is very much in question, from the point of view of its equanimity in considering it. the finnish presidency - and i say this with great sadness, because finland is an example of transparency - has not acted correctly, and mrs lehtomäki should have given an explanation. and as regards commissioner mandelson - and i am telling commissioner rehn to tell him this, and i hope he will allow me to go a little further - if commissioner mandelson were in a public school he would have already called the parents because their child was absent: because he was not here in the september partsession, precisely to discuss the report on india; today he has had to leave; he will not be with mercosur... yes, it is very important to talk to india in helsinki, but it is more important to be present where the executive has to be, which is in the house, before the parliamentarians. mr president, on the substance of the matter, i have to say that we support the commission: we support it and we are absolutely against that manichean stereotype which has been formulated by saying that there are countries which are in favour of free trade and countries which are protectionist on this issue. the commission's approach is balanced; we are acting together and in solidarity, and we are in a very serious situation. it is said that there is protectionism, because we have to protect, for example, our workers. at the moment i can tell you that the last remaining industry in france, in alsace, which makes safety footwear, which is very important, is going to go to the court of justice, because the differences there are - and we are asking for anti-dumping measures of a surcharge on the 10 to 20% tariffs - are 40% and the footwear that is coming in does not meet the minimum safety standards. so this is not a debate that divides the european union between those who are in favour of virtue and those who want to close the doors. this is a debate in which what is being asked is that the rules we have agreed at the world trade organisation be respected. the commission has done its job properly, although it has not done so today in the absence of commissioner mandelson. and that is why, mr president, we believe that the house should treat such an important matter with more respect. the other issues are very important, but the president and i have lost many planes in the line of duty. and if there's a summit tomorrow, they can get up early or arrange it some other way, but the place to be is here.
mr president, mr commissioner, thank you for being with us today. i would like to briefly convey to the council my relative satisfaction with the agreement reached on 4 october: satisfaction because it has finally been agreed to act on the practice of selling shoes from china and vietnam below their real cost price. i say relative satisfaction, because in this type of tariff measures the period of validity is usually five years and not two years, as the council has agreed. we in spain and the balearic islands call on the commission and the council to leave open the possibility of extending these charges, since the problem of unfair competition will continue to exist after this deadline. in addition, in the region i represent, the balearic islands, one of the most active regions in defending equal conditions for the marketing of footwear on european markets, we consider that the tariffs provided for in the council agreement are low in relation to those applied in the provisional period ending on 6 october last: the provisional tariff surcharge of 19% for chinese shoes is raised to 16% and for shoes coming from vietnam it is raised from 16.8% to 10%. for the balearic islands and for my country the fundamental issue is to defend equal conditions for the marketing of footwear on the market, which excludes this kind of dumping. it is not a question of introducing protectionist measures which impede free trade, but of taking measures to combat unfair competition.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you on behalf of the commission for your speeches, which reflect the legitimate concerns of industry and workers and the issues of importance to consumers. i will pass on this debate to commissioner mandelson and, of course, to the whole house. this is a very important question and we will be following it up. it was known from the outset that this is a very difficult and complex case and after a thorough investigation the commission imposed provisional anti-dumping duties in april. all the conditions for anti-dumping duties were met, there is no doubt about that. the investigation showed that the prc and vietnam were dumping and therefore it was in the community interest to intervene. in many speeches, as in the one just given, consumer prices were mentioned. we have investigated this in detail and these investigations show that in all likelihood these solutions will not have an impact on consumer prices. this is because there is, i would say, a very considerable added value between import prices and consumer prices. the average import price is 8 euros, whereas we all know that shoes in the shops normally cost many times that. the impact of the anti-dumping duties is therefore very limited and in any event only covers 11% of the total union imports. mr president, as i said, i will convey the substance and spirit of the debate to commissioner mandelson.
mr president, i note the expression of displeasure by commissioner rehn, but i think that what has happened today should be examined by the presidency and the conference of presidents, because it is a contempt for parliament on the part of the council, above all. as for the commission, i hope it will put things right at home and continue to work to defend european interests.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank parliament for its support of the commission's decision to phase out the european agency by allowing the ear to close the cards programme. at the same time as ipa is being phased in, we are getting the best possible conditions for a successful continuation of aid to the countries concerned in the western balkans. many meps have expressed concern that the eu is losing expertise. we are keen to maintain the expertise we have and therefore offer, as far as possible, the staff now working for the ear to do the same type of work in the commission delegations. as regards montenegro and kosovo, the commission is planning a well-structured delegation in montenegro, podgorica, and a possible upgrade of our liaison office in pristina. mr president, i thank parliament for its support for our policy of stabilisation and integration in the western balkans. it's very important that we work together for the same goal. i am confident that together we can achieve a very good result in terms of stabilising the western balkans and integrating them into the european union.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
thank you very much mr. lundgren. i wonder if you have had time to read the letter i have sent in reply to the letter sent by several members and which has been sent to you. have you read it? because if you have, i don't understand your question. you keep saying things that are absolutely false. i've explained in this letter to everyone what i've said. and what i said has nothing to do with what you say i said. in that letter i made it clear that i had merely pointed out that the views of a country can be influenced by the fact that it did not participate in the world war in its history. that doesn't take away anyone's right to an opinion. that doesn't mean we shouldn't listen to his opinion. i'm just pointing out that it's different and one of the reasons it might be different is because of its history. why do you say that the president of parliament denies you the right to express an opinion? do you think i am so stupid as to deny the right of any european citizen to express an opinion on the basis of the history of his country? of course, everyone has a right to an opinion. i merely point out that opinions may differ on the basis of different historical reasons. i do not understand why such an absurd debate has been organised on a pure falsification of my words, which you, i am sorry to say, continue to insist on doing.
i do not know what you are referring to, mr president, but i am at your disposal to clarify it. if you would be so kind as to give me more details, i can know whether or not i have done my duty and, if so, rectify it. i am at your disposal to have you explain what you mean.
a member of the secretariat asked mr batten what he meant when he spoke of relations with algeria and the president's performance of his duties. this closes this spot.
mr president, commissioner, i have to congratulate the commission on this proposal, and i have to congratulate mrs jeggle in particular on this excellent report and the great work she has done. i just wanted to draw attention to point 71. at this point, it is requested that the fighting of dogs, bulls and roosters be stopped. when he talks about bullfighting, he obviously means bullfighting. equating bullfighting with dog-cock fighting really doesn't make any sense. firstly, because bulls do not fight each other, it is not an animal fighting animal, it is a very noble fight of man against bull, and sometimes it is man who dies, and oftentimes he is injured. it is also a tradition and a culture within our country. some of you may not understand this, but the bull is very important to us, the spanish, for bullfighting. and i am as respectful of the traditions of other countries as i ask that you be respectful of mine. thank you very much. the bull contributes to the maintenance of the dehesas, contributes to the protection of the environment, contributes to rural development. in addition, the bull, among the vaccinated animals, is the best survivor; if we talk about animal welfare, it should be noted that the bull lives very well fed, lives outdoors, lives running as an animal likes to live, and finally dies fighting with its own defenses. the bullfight is much more noble than the hunt, in which, after all, the animal is killed without the animal being able to defend itself. i would like to thank mrs jeggel and my whole political group for having understood this and for asking that this word be removed from this item.
mr president, animal welfare, which has been included in the cap since the last reform, is already an achievement of european agriculture, although, according to the results of the special eurobarometer survey carried out in 2005 on this issue, europeans are unaware of the efforts made by our producers and therefore do not appreciate them, despite the fact that our legislation is the most protective. the european commission has already acknowledged the need to inform consumers better about this issue if we want the efforts made by our farmers to be valued. but this high level of protection has an economic cost which can lead to a loss of competitiveness in our agri-food industry. systematic impact studies analysing the social and economic impact of any new rules, robust scientific analyses reflecting the variety of situations existing in the european union and providing objective animal welfare indicators and consistency with the rest of the union's policies and, more particularly, with the lisbon strategy, competitiveness and employment are needed. five key aspects, then: improved communication to society, rigorous socioeconomic analysis, sound scientific bases, greater coherence with other common policies and promotion of european standards in international forums. and as regards paragraph 71, i would like to say that my group will certainly vote against that paragraph, among other things, and above all because it contains a number of technical inaccuracies and brings a debate which is totally out of place, a debate which is clouding the most important aspects of this report and, above all - i have to say it this way - the excellent work done by the rapporteur, mrs jeggle, who has been a very nimble, hardworking and thoughtful rapporteur.
mr president, cruelty is not a culture; causing suffering cannot be considered entertainment. mass industrial suffering is not a legitimate business. the demand for justice in our relationship with animals questions and expands the dominant human morality. the achievement of animal welfare requires us to reorient our usual human practices of moral responsibility by granting protection and rights to non-human animal individuals, who have sensory, emotional and intellectual capacities. the recognition and extension of animal rights must lead us to refrain from causing unnecessary cruelty and suffering to animals: that is the point of this report. the greens will support the proposal, with a number of amendments, and we will ask the council not to continue to ignore the majority opinion of europeans in favour of stricter animal protection measures; it is not possible. we think that our concern is an ethical and altruistic effort, but it also responds to concern for the needs and interests of people. we advocate improving animal welfare because only by improving animal welfare can we promote human health, the environment and social justice.
mr president, thank you, madam rapporteur, mrs jeggle, for your work. this initiative responds to a social concern which i believe is important to be taken into account, not only in the european union but throughout the world. it is important that we have a single european standard and that it is respected in all the countries of the european union, of course; that these standards, which we are pioneering around the world, are respected, because few countries in the world can say that they meet standards such as those applied by the european union. we have recently spoken, for example, about the breeding of chickens for meat and the transport of animals; and in this report by mrs jeggle we are not only talking about production farms, but also, for example, the display of animals, zoos, circuses, research and development, in which animals are also used. and we also have to talk about the pets that are in our homes and that we have to take care of; certainly, we do not have to be tolerant of those who abandon them, starve them or abuse them. we must apply serious criteria and scientific criteria which will enable us to say that the animals that accompany us in our daily lives in the european union are happy. i would like to remind you that we have had hearings in this parliament where we have heard international experts, such as dr gonsálvez from spain, tell us that we must prevent and invest in epizootic diseases, that we must invest in respecting the density of animals on farms, that we must educate children in respect for animals. and we must of course avoid cases such as the one mentioned here today in connection with paragraph 71, introduced by the ignorance and lack of knowledge of a member of the socialist group in this house, who, as they say in spanish, has confused churras with merinas, because he has not respected the art, the tradition or the culture of other people who do not think like him and who are examples of freedom and respect for diversity. so, with the greatest respect for those who do not share our views, we shall vote against paragraph 71.
member of the commission. thank you, mr president, for a stimulating debate. i would like to respond to a couple of the most important issues that have been raised. mr ehler called for better economic analysis of the impact of changes on jobs and growth – and rightly so. on assessing the economic impact of reforms: as i mentioned, the fact there are no plans to harmonise professional regulation across the eu means it would be very difficult to predict impact accurately. we favour comparative assessment of what differences real changes have actually made on the ground in the member states that have already introduced them. that is why we see a strong role for the national authorities, which are well placed when they undertake these analyses, but we will also further reflect on what more we might do to facilitate the building of the economic evidence base at eu level. talking about liberal professions, such as lawyer, requires tough ethical rules and qualities. the commission fully accepts that genuine ethical rules are essential to ensure good governance and practice in professions such as lawyer. in this respect, one standard should apply no matter to whom the services are provided: fixing prices or banning advertising do not deliver high ethical standards and good quality services. quality and observance of ethical standards are better ensured and controlled by adequate training requirements and by effective supervision by the states and/or by professional bodies, including effective complaints procedures for clients. codes of conduct, as mentioned here, also represent a positive step. the commission supports the removal of fixed and minimum prices and the use of result-based fees. there is no evidence to suggest that in the member states where fixed and minimum prices have been removed there has been a deterioration in the quality or ethical standards of legal services. though quality has a price, a fixed price does not in itself guarantee quality. price competition with the possibility of undercutting fixed minimum fees and the use of success fees will, rather, enhance access to justice.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all inform you that commissioner mandelson has contacted me to explain the reasons for his absence from this debate, which i thank him for. the summit on india in finland is the reason; that has given me the opportunity to have an interesting conversation with the commissioner about the agreement with mercosur, showing him that, in addition to india or china, brazil and the whole of mercosur are also emerging powers, a view which the commissioner certainly, and fortunately, also shares. we hope that, once the gloomy outlook of the doha round has been cleared, the electoral process in brazil has been overcome and the political, economic and commercial foundations for relations between the european union and mercosur have been laid, which is what parliament is seeking to do with this report we are presenting today, that the final steps will be taken to bring the negotiations of an ambitious eu-mercosur association agreement to the final stage. we want our report to be that: the relaunch of a political, economic and commercial priority, the establishment of a set of principles, rules and guidelines that bring together a strategic political priority, and the consolidation of the framework of relations between two trading blocs; if we are able to bring them together through an association agreement which, together with the political aspects of cooperation, entails an agreement to create a free trade area, we will have taken the historic step of creating the largest free trade area on the planet. in the present times, when new powers are emerging in the east, this would mean strengthening the mutual interests of two blocs bound together by history and culture, with the benefits that this should bring to our citizens on both continents. we are talking about a population of over 700 million people in all. our report therefore calls for a comprehensive, ambitious and balanced agreement based on three pillars: a political-institutional chapter that strengthens democratic dialogue and political consultation; a cooperation chapter that promotes sustainable economic and social development; and a trade chapter that establishes an advanced free trade area and covers a broad agenda that, in addition to reciprocal liberalisation of trade in goods and services, includes investment, public procurement, protection of intellectual property rights and competition cooperation, as well as trade defence instruments, trade facilitation and a binding dispute settlement mechanism. the examples of mexico and chile are good proof of how our relations can be intensified through an instrument of partnership. the great potential for growth in both directions is evident if we remember that mercosur represents 45% of the population of latin america and represents its most important market, with 45% of gdp. in addition, compared with the rest of latin america, where imports from the united states are three times as high as those from the european union, the eu's share in mercosur is around 25%, compared with 20% for the united states. according to the paris institute of policy studies, the cost of no deal is estimated at some €3.7 billion a year in trade and goods, and more than €5 billion if investment and services are included. the trade agreement must be broad and cover all sectors, although it is logical to recognise the specific sensitivity of certain products, as the report states. we did not want to go over the impact of the agreement in the various subsectors in detail, but we thought it appropriate to analyse the overall, the set of mutual interests of the negotiation. our report therefore addresses both the interests of the eu in mercosur and those of mercosur in the european union and devotes specific sections to such relevant issues as agriculture, with references to subsidies, geographical indications, bioethanol, etc.; nama, where we include a special reference to fisheries and the sensitivity of certain processed products such as canned tuna; services, where real improvements and clear and stable regulatory frameworks are needed; investments, which are fundamental to sustainable economic development and the creation of jobs and wealth; public procurement and intellectual property, as well as the clear identification of possible obstacles to trade and the approximation of certification, accreditation, standardisation, etc. standards, which favour fair trade and fair competition, and the establishment of an agreed dispute settlement mechanism. in addition to the strictly technical and commercial aspects, the report also covers the necessary industrial, labour and social cooperation mechanisms for small and mediumsized enterprises and aspects relating to technology, science, environmental measures, energy and communication, as well as aid and solidarity mechanisms from the european union. finally, we mention the interparliamentary cooperation between the european parliament and the mercosur parliament which is necessary to give the agreement greater democratic representativeness and to bring the sometimes excessively technical aspects of the agreement closer to the feelings of the citizens whom we represent, thus giving the agreement a greater popular dimension. we believe that this report makes clear the european parliament's commitment to a broad and ambitious association agreement between the old and a large part of the new continent, which we want to integrate, and we ask the commission to speed up the negotiations so that the agreement becomes a reality as soon as possible, for the sake of the citizens of both continents. i would like to conclude, mr president, by thanking all the groups in this parliament for their invaluable understanding and support, which has been very much appreciated and which i wanted to be as wide as possible, in the interests of a desirable and broad consensus.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr varela suanzes-carpegna, on the excellent work he has done on behalf of the committee on international trade. i also regret the absence of the commissioner responsible, mr mandelson, although he at least had the courtesy of calling the rapporteur and giving him an explanation, which is not often the case. i would like to say, mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs, that i would have liked to have had a firmer commitment from the commission as regards the timetable requested by the rapporteur in his report, because ten years of negotiation, mr president, is a long time to negotiate an agreement which, as the rapporteur and the commissioner have pointed out, is an agreement on political association, economic concertation and cooperation. it is clear that the european union has not shown this lack of political will; i believe that one of the mercosur member states has clearly and decisively opted for the multilateral round, and the experiences of chile and mexico - as mr varela suanzes-carpegna has reminded us - clearly show that it is possible to go much further than the multilateral round's forecasts. so, mr president, i believe that where there is a will there is always a way. and although trade aspects are characteristic of this type of agreement, as far as the third generation agreements are concerned, which were characterized by the democratic clause, it is clear that after the vienna summit, after the failure of the multilateral round, all the meat must be put on the grill. i believe that the european commission must clearly and decisively support these association agreements, because latin america does not need gifts but opportunities, and this eu-mercosur association agreement is an excellent opportunity for all of us to pursue the objectives we share of greater democracy, greater integration and, of course, more fluid and more agile trade, which is peace, which is progress and which is synonymous with prosperity for all.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr varela suanzes-carpegna, on his excellent report and, as the alternative socialist rapporteur, i would like to thank him for the close cooperation we have maintained since the first exchange of views in the committee on international trade. this cooperation has contributed to the preparation of a balanced report with a clear message that we in this house want to send to the commission: commissioner, we want an association agreement between the european union and mercosur to be concluded as soon as possible for a number of reasons. firstly, this agreement will be much more than a mere trade instrument: it will be an instrument at the service of peace, multilateralism and dialogue, enabling both blocs to adopt policies which defend common economic, social and geopolitical values and interests. it will be the first intercontinental north-south partnership, an alternative to other attempts at integration, such as the ftaa, which are more marked by the desire for commercial domination. the european union and mercosur will also become the world's largest region of shared prosperity, benefiting more than 700 million citizens, as has already been said here. strengthening cooperation will allow the development of policies aimed at economic and social cohesion to promote development, as well as equality and prosperity of citizens in both regions. the socialist group believes that the final report calls for the development of a greater involvement of the social partners in the integration process and a genuine interparliamentary dimension between the european union and mercosur. we hope that the other groups will support our amendments in this respect. commissioner, although futile efforts may lead to melancholy, the commission must not give up its efforts to unblock the conclusion of the agreement and to put an end to the sense of stagnation and pessimism that has lately surrounded the multilateral and bilateral trade negotiations. and finally, commissioner, could you give us some information on the process of venezuela's accession to mercosur and tell us how it is affecting the negotiations under way?
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate my fellow citizen, mr varela suanzes-carpegna, on his report and on his open and positive attitude, which i hope will lead to a significant consensus in this house. mercosur has more than 230 million inhabitants, its economic area is among the five largest in the world and is the first in food production. relations between the european union and mercosur have deep historical roots and a common cultural background. the association agreement is therefore the best way to strengthen our links and to boost our exchanges. i welcome the inclusion in the report of our amendments, which underline the democratic component of our relations, based on shared values, the parliamentary dimension and the active participation of civil society, aspects on which, as mr moreno sánchez has pointed out, i still call for additional efforts. and i also appreciate the inclusion of our proposals to expand fisheries and tourism relations, to achieve appropriate regulatory frameworks, to intensify trade and increase investment, including the harmonization of accounting and auditing standards, and to address sanitation problems in the public sector. finally, i ask the commission to regard this agreement as an objective of the highest political priority.
mr president, i support the excellent work done, and i wish to thank mrs gál and mrs kósáné kovács for it. i think a fundamental rights agency is very important for the european union in order to protect, and ensure respect for, these rights throughout the union. i would like to mention one aspect of fundamental rights: rights relating to language and to culture. these are not clearly protected in many european states, nor are they in some states which are candidates for accession. this agency could be a very good instrument to stress this point and to ensure that the rights of stateless citizens or of citizens belonging to a minority within a state are respected. the universal declaration on linguistic rights, made in barcelona in 1996, is a good document to take into account, and i believe we are working in the right direction. i hope for a majority vote from this parliament.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i too would like to thank the two rapporteurs and all those who have spoken. i am aware, firstly, of the need for this parliament to express itself by a large majority, as the two rapporteurs have requested, on an initiative which would otherwise frustrate our common effort. we have worked together to give parliament a strong and authoritative voice, even in the absence of the formal codecision procedure. we must not allow a division of this parliament to give the council the impression that it can decide on its own. this is a political requirement, partly because i have heard some leading members of this parliament even doubt the very purpose of the agency. first of all, we must clarify the figures quoted. i heard the agency will cost 150 million euros. it's not true! the institution in question will cost €14 million in 2007, not €150, and will cost €21 million in 2010, not €150. the agency, which is the natural successor to the vienna observatory, which employs 40 people, will have 50 officials in 2007, just 10 more. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. are we to believe that it is not worth having 50 people working to keep the level of human rights monitoring in europe high? i think it's worth it. why do you need an agency? we need an agency to have an independent evaluation, which is precisely what many honourable members have pointed out. i heard someone ask: "but then what about the commission? " the commission will do a much better job if it has an agency which can provide independent evaluation and assessment. i want to reassure mr rack that: we will continue to carry out our duties, which in this matter are not bureaucratic but political support for the work of parliament and the council. that is why we need an independent agency to provide us with the elements for formulating our proposals. it is clear that the commission's work will not be diminished, but rather strengthened and enlarged. what is the role of the council of europe? the council of europe will continue to do its work. i repeat: we do not want overlapping and the rules of the treaties apply here too. the agency will be responsible for monitoring the respect of fundamental rights under community law where, as you know very well, the council of europe has no competence in the field of human rights under community law. the two institutions will therefore have very different areas of activity, and we intend to safeguard this. i am defending the fundamental rights agency precisely because i do not think it should be used to point the finger at this or that member state or to serve as an instrument of political struggle, perhaps internal. that would be wrong and i agree with those who say that officials cannot be trusted to make political judgments. the task will remain in the hands of the commission. we want an agency which will help to increase transparency in europe on how fundamental rights are guaranteed. if i refer to the police forces and the judiciary in europe, it is because i believe that they too should want - and i am sure they do - transparency in the protection of fundamental rights in their work. it would be much better for the dignity of police and judicial institutions if full transparency were guaranteed in the way crime is suppressed. this is an initiative for their benefit, not against them, and this is certainly not the intention of the fundamental rights agency.
as you know, on 15 june the european parliament voted in favour of slovenia adopting the euro as from 1 january 2007. this requires some technical adaptations. although the treaty does not require it, the council has preferred to ask for an opinion. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has considered that a resolution of parliament was not necessary for that opinion, so mrs berès, chairman of that committee, has sent a letter to the president of ecofin expressing the positive opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the technical adaptations to be made. we therefore wish our fellow europeans in slovenia good luck with their new currency.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i think that a further period of reflection is appropriate. you know my opinion on the amendments you have just approved. the council still has some difficulty accepting them. i think the best solution is to take some time and try, on our part, to persuade the council to accept the view expressed by parliament today.
the commission's vice-president i think that we will need a little more time for consultation with the council, as the rapporteur has rightly said.
okay, so the english version is valid.
the voting is closed.
thank you very much, mrs. korhola. you are right: the comprehensive multilingualism we practise in this parliament often causes us problems, but you believe that the services are doing what they can. given the number of languages and the technical difficulties, although there may sometimes be some problems such as the one you mention, i think that overall we are an exemplary assembly in the world in respect of multilingualism.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 12 october 2006.
i would like to point out that we have a delegation from the japanese parliament with us this afternoon and i would like to point out that this delegation is in the official gallery, chaired by mr tsushima tuji, a great friend of europe. (applause) the delegation of our japanese colleagues is taking part in the 27th interparliamentary meeting between the european parliament and japan. the dialogue between the european parliament and the japanese parliament has a long tradition. it began with a strictly commercial interest but has now broadened to cover many issues of concern to our peoples. we welcome the deepening of our dialogue with japan, in a context where it is increasingly necessary for us to work together for international security and stability. i would like to welcome you, colleagues.
the final draft agenda for this part-session has been distributed, as agreed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 19 october, in accordance with rules 130 and 131. the following amendments have been proposed:wednesday:in view of the large number of debates scheduled for wednesday afternoon, and after having heard the views of the political groups, i propose that we extend the debate to 6 p.m. instead of 5:30 p.m. and that the question time to the council should therefore take place between 6 and 7 p.m. is there any comment?
i have no objection to that, but we shall propose to the council that it should also take part in the question time for the council for half an hour longer. (parliament adopted the proposal)
let's see how well-founded your argument is. you say that there was a question to the council on the agenda which the conference of presidents decided to withdraw from the agenda? i'm going to ask the secretariat to explore what you're telling us, to see what we do about it.
yes, indeed, the conference of presidents decided to withdraw this question from the agenda.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to answer this question.
i am sorry, but the political groups represented in the conference of presidents are supposed to inform their members of the decisions taken by the conference. you will disagree with me, but this is the decision taken by the conference of presidents and i cannot change it now; you will understand that i cannot rectify that decision. it is the responsibility of the political groups to inform their members of the decisions taken by the conference of presidents. the green group/european free alliance has asked for a commission statement on nuclear safety to be added, in connection with the continuing problems at the forsmark reactors, which would be followed by a debate, which would be closed by a motion for a resolution. mr turmes will now explain this proposal.
i cannot guarantee that; in any case, you will have to discuss it with them.
i'm not giving you the floor to answer, mr. turmes. please maintain the necessary contacts outside the house to know when and how this matter should be addressed. (the order of business is as follows) for other changes to the order of business, see minutes.
mr president, i call on the commission and the council - and the european union in short - to express their concern to the argentine authorities about the fate of key witnesses in the proceedings against impunity, in order to clear all those responsible for the dictatorship. it is the case of the disappearance of citizen jorge julio lópez, fundamental to the cause against a buenos aires policeman, citizen miguel etchecolatz, who was a torturer during the time of the dictatorship, the darkest period in the history of argentina. this witness has been missing since september, which has created a tremendous alarm among the many witnesses who have to continue to give their testimony to clarify the truth and that no crime remains unpunished. i therefore ask the european union to take an interest in this particular case with the argentine authorities.
mr president, i would like to convey a message of condolence and solidarity through the presidency of this house for the serious situation in which several municipalities in galicia are now found, particularly in the province of pontevedra, as a result of the severe floods which have been affecting them since this weekend. the storm has caused serious damage. homes, businesses, communication routes, farm and livestock assets have been badly damaged. unfortunately, there have also been injuries and even loss of life. the autonomous community of galicia, as we all know, suffered a very serious catastrophe last august, caused by a strong wave of fires, which we discussed in this parliament in september. we therefore support the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund. the serious impact of the heavy rains of these days is related to the fires of august, as the galician press points out today. the loss of forest cover and the tons of ash washed up have increased the ferocity of the waters. these figures are just one more example of the magnitude of the catastrophe that devastated galicia this summer. unfortunately, several galician municipalities have to mourn again.
mr president, emigration is necessary and also enriching for our society, culturally, economically and socially, and we are not going to say the opposite today. but it can be a source of trouble if not handled properly. it should never be a problem, because we have to make it so when we make these laws in all the houses of the european union. but if parliaments are not careful, they can cause problems that turn into xenophobia and racism in societies, and that is precisely what we are trying to avoid. the report was wrong in not covering only legal immigration but equating legal and illegal. this is a dangerous message, because it may cause some mafias to rub their hands together when they hear certain things said in that report. democracy, which is the system that fortunately governs us all, is based on individual freedom, and this is guaranteed by respect for the law, both that of the member states - because this is a subsidiary problem - and the regulations and directives that we have now or in the future. the important thing is respect for the law. and i fear that some of the amendments tabled by the radical left do not respect the law of the member states and are against equality, against democracy and against individual freedom. i would therefore ask for a reflection on those amendments which seek to call out the mafias, confuse immigrants and attract more illegal immigration, because they may be doing a disservice to immigrants and all european citizens, because of the effects of the so-called, the trickery and business of the mafias and because the criteria for granting residence permits are not clear. finally, i would like to make a point: with regard to cases of mutilation or forced marriage, i ask this house and the commission here that when we talk to those third countries and give them money for cooperation, if we are really committed to women and their equality, before we give them the money we should ask them to respect the minimum fundamental rights.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and to highlight one point. all immigration policy must certainly take account of gender specificities, but also of differences between immigrant communities, since the causes of double discrimination suffered by immigrant women and the problems arising from it are different depending on the motivation that led them to emigrate. if women who migrate alone for economic reasons do find employment, it is usually of a low standard, and sometimes in undeclared jobs, which do not give them the independence or security they sought, but allow them to relate and to progress in their integration. however, women who migrate for family reunification often remain at home, without the opportunity to become familiar with the host society or the possibility of learning the language, which makes integration difficult and increases their isolation. the designation of 2007 as the 'european year of equal opportunities for all' and 2008 as the 'european year of intercultural dialogue' should serve to raise awareness among citizens of the always difficult but diverse situation of migrant women and to implement policies for equality and inclusion, tailored to each situation.
author. - mr president, my speech has two parts. in the first part i shall put the oral question on natura 2000 by mr florenz, who is not present and has asked me to speak on his behalf. the question is: since the commission estimates that eur 6.1 billion per year is needed for the maintenance and conservation of natura 2000 protected areas and the funding is supposed to come from the rural development funds, the structural funds, life+ and the fisheries funds, how does the commission intend to coordinate this policy? how do you intend to send clear messages to users, to owners, to those who hold natura 2000 land, about what your coordinated policy is? where are the funds? what actions should be taken? how accessible is the protection and assistance of the european union? it's something that's not clear yet. a very clear design is needed so that, from the bottom up, genuine communication can emerge between the owners and the commission. as for life+, i agree with everything mrs isler béguin said. the vote results reflect genuine agreement in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, although there may be dissent and different positions, deriving from the positions of each state. why would you do that? because the new design of life+ that is now being presented is a decentralised policy and very different from what has been done so far. we understand that life has traditionally been a leading programme for funding innovative projects and innovative management models, especially in the field of the environment. it is a prestigious programme, which ngos have looked to as a beacon and a model. for local and regional authorities it has become a path to follow, a permanent reference. and we intend to keep that reference in place. but that is also because the universal nature of environmental policy has been emphasized, which has been one of the successes of european policy in this field. europe knows that environmental policy cannot be applied to a single region. it requires a global reflection, and this has always been the view of the european union, and the 6th environment action programme has always considered it so. the policy on climate change, desertification, water, waste, quality of life, welfare and pollution is universal, and we are trying to make it not only applicable in europe, but to make europe a model for the whole world. however, let us remember that life was created to do this and that is what the text of the financial statement i am about to read says, which states that the life + credit is intended to finance financial contributions for actions to implement, update and develop community environmental legislation and policy, including the integration of the environment into other policies. how is this possible if politics is only nationalised? how can this be achieved if europe loses its leadership, if it leaves these matters to the states? we therefore propose a more centralised model, with all clarity and force: that europe should once again take on its role and its leading role. we understand that the commission lacks the means. we will support it in the future, whenever possible, because this policy of dismantling civil servants cannot be maintained any longer. without a structure and management capacity, and without well-trained staff, europe cannot do this. we certainly believe that the european commission should be given back some of the management and that european international projects should be undertaken so that europe can in future improve its capacity, by building up its capacity to monitor projects more closely, to see how policies are coordinated and to continue to carry out cross-cutting actions. this is our proposal and we will cooperate fully in the conciliation process so that we can reach an agreement soon, the financing can be guaranteed and the commission can undoubtedly fulfil its mission. that is precisely why we are here: to work with the commission and to tell the states that sustainability policy is a process and that europe is not just a market.
mr carnero gonzález, you have the floor. i suppose it's a matter of order. what rule of the rules of procedure are you referring to?
yes, mr president, i just wanted to refer to the fact that the media are reporting that a european citizen of spanish nationality, mr emilio morenatti, was kidnapped in gaza this morning by a group of armed men. i would ask you to ask the council presidency and the commission to do everything possible ... (the president cut the speaker off)
this is not a question of order. i understand your concern, but the rules of procedure must be respected. i'll take good note of what you say, thank you.
the council requests that the urgency procedure be used for the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 639/2004 on the management of the fishing fleets registered in the outermost regions of the community (com (2006) 0433 - c6-0295/2006 - 2006/0148 (cns)). who is speaking for the fisheries committee?
mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the committee on fisheries in the absence of its chairman, mr morillon, to support this urgent request from the council. it is a question of approving, as you have said, and as the commission proposes, the amendment of regulation (ec) no 639/2004 on the management of fishing fleets. the fisheries sector in the outermost regions is structurally precarious. the adoption by the council of the regulation on the european fisheries fund was accompanied by a joint statement by the council and the commission in support of these regions, extending until 31 december 2006 the derogations concerning the possibility of granting public aid for the renewal of the fishing fleets registered in these regions. although the extension expires in two months, the regulation has not yet been able to enter into force, given the slow decision-making process in the community system. our committee is in favour of urgency and urges the commission and the member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that the aid can be received without delay by the sector.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
ladies and gentlemen, i would now like to make a statement, and i shall do so standing up, on the so-called 'hungarian revolution' of october 1956. it is half a century since the hungarian people rose up against the communist dictatorship and against the occupation by a foreign power. on october 23, 1956, hungarian university students marched through the streets of budapest in protest against the communist government, and they were quickly joined by citizens of all professions and social conditions. i have to tell you, this is my first childhood memory of politics. at that time, the resistance of the hungarian people invaded the news in my country. i remember the teacher at school explaining to us on a map the place of the events, the voices on the radio stations and the photographs in the newspapers of the t-34 tanks burned in the center of budapest. it was for me the awakening to the notion of freedom struggle. for two weeks there was hope; then the radios went silent and an iron silence was imposed, behind which were thousands of dead and hundreds of exiles. for a time, the budapest uprising hoped that the free west would come to their aid; it did not. for a time, they were led to believe that it would be. we were helpless spectators as thousands of hungarian men, women and children fled their country and sought refuge in the west. this was an indescribable tragedy for the hungarian people, but it was also the first crack that appeared in the soviet system - a crack that would later grow and eventually bring down the berlin wall - and, without a doubt, a great moment in the history of that country. at that time, at the end of june, also in poland the poznan uprising, with the workers of the cegielski factory demanding bread and freedom, was another important moment of that revolt. those events were, no doubt, related. in fact, during the celebration ceremony organized this year to commemorate the events in poznan in 1956, the hungarian president, laszlo sólyom, said that poznan and hungary stood together against the soviet occupation. on 24 october 1956 the hungarians took to the streets with banners on which they had written "poznan-warsaw-budapest". that was the inspiration for what happened next, although it took time. it took time, until spring blossomed in prague in 1968. it took time, until the strikes in poland in 1970, which led to the recognition of solidarnosc, ten years later, as the picket line that brought down the wall. the story came back in 1989. hungary and poland laid the foundation stone for the reunification of the continent, and i think this is a good moment to quote the speech made by albert camus in 1957 on the first anniversary of the hungarian revolution. camus said: "victorious, chained hungary has done more for freedom and justice than any other european nation in the last twenty years . . . in the present loneliness of europe we have only one means of remaining loyal to hungary: never to betray, either in ourselves or in others, that for which the hungarian fighters died, and never to justify, even indirectly, what killed them. it won't be easy to prove ourselves worthy of such a sacrifice. but we must try to do so in a europe that is finally united, forgetting our grievances, making amends for our mistakes, multiplying our efforts and our solidarity. today, a united europe is ready to make further progress and to spread the european spirit even further, contributing to the building of a world in which freedom, solidarity and progress are the guiding principles of our action. that's what we owe to those who died for believing in a free europe. (applause) i would like to thank
this closes this spot. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to something that has already been said. firstly, i think that the european commission is making a great policy, trying to harmonize aspects in an area where it has no real competence, but where it can take the lead, and we urge it to expand its policies, to continue to insist on self-examination and to disseminate the differences that exist in each country, and i do not say denouncing, but highlighting the shortcomings and, above all, i also think that it should expand its website and introduce, for example, self-examination and other possible actions, as some chambers of commerce are already doing. secondly, i would like to draw attention to the family tragedy that breast cancer usually entails. i understand that families break up very often and that many women do not dare to report their cases, precisely because cancer disrupts their work rhythm, their normal life and would prevent them from taking care of their family, should they have to go through the operating table. i therefore believe that the european union must step up its action and also address this area of family assistance and awareness-raising.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate and thank mrs hieronymi for her excellent work and commissioner reding for the positions she has adopted. i think it is very important to support the audiovisual sector and european cinema in order to ensure diversity and plurality in europe and to work towards the main aims of the european union. i think that it is also very important for endangered cultures, for the languages of stateless nations, for minority languages and so on. the reference in the report to the regional and local levels is very important, because it focuses on the need for real diversity in the european union. that is a great support. also, we have to support independent producers in order to enrich audiovisual output and make it more in tune with reality and with european culture.
i'm told a distinguished visitor is in the official gallery. mr akbar ganji, a well-known writer and journalist, was released last march after serving a six-year prison sentence for his activities in favour of democracy and freedom of the press in iran. mr ganji, we welcome you to the european parliament. (applause) the european parliament actively supported mr ganji during his long detention and hunger strike and called for his release on several occasions, in particular in its resolution on iran of 13 october 2005, as well as through several letters and interventions by the president of the parliament and the chairmen of the delegation for relations with iran and the subcommittee on human rights. mr ganji took part in a joint meeting of these bodies this afternoon, which no doubt benefited from his knowledge and experience.
the joint debate on the 2007 budgetary procedure is now under way. the debate will examine - the report by mr james elles, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2007 (section iii) (c6-0299/2006 2006/2018 (bud)) and the amending notes no 1/2007 (5733/2006 - c6-0000/2006) and no 2/2007 (9010/2006 - c6-0000/2006) to the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2007 and - the report by mr louis grech, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european communities for the financial year 2007 (section i - european parliament; section ii - council; section iv - court of justice; section v - court of auditors; section vi - economic and social committee; section vii - committee of the regions; section viii - european ombudsman; section viii - european data protection supervisor) (bud) (bud) 2006-08-06).
opinion of the committee on fisheries mr president, our committee has made some comments on the cuts introduced by the council in relation to the european commission's proposals. the most important of these cuts is €10 million from the reserve on international agreements, which 'disappears' for both commitments and payments. the committee on fisheries understands that this could even create problems in relation to the union's legal obligations in this area and we therefore ask that the initial amounts be restored. the other reductions made by the council concern european fisheries fund payments: eur 23 million for convergence regions and eur 7 million for those not included in this category. the committee on fisheries believes that if these cuts were to be made, the advance payment of 7% as provided for in the fund's own regulation would be impossible. the overall allocation for fisheries is modest enough, ladies and gentlemen, that these cuts seem unacceptable to us. in addition to being arbitrary and unjustified, they send a very negative signal at a critical moment for the sector, which is why the committee on fisheries calls for the figures proposed by the commission in the preliminary draft budget to be reinstated.
opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. mr president, it is often said that knowledge has no place, but in this case i believe that debate and reflection on the future of europe should be part of the budget. when we met the rapporteur-general in july, i told him, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, that it might seem that this was the least important item in this debate, but that it was not. we are debating precisely what we want the future of europe to be, and to get from the muse to the theatre, we need funds, means, above all, to inform citizens, to strengthen the institutions that are responsible for linking civil society with the european institutions and to promote debate. are we gonna get it on the budget we have? the amendments tabled by the committee on constitutional affairs have been taken up, in some way, by the committee on budgets. in this way we will be able to promote this reflection and even enable the citizens to understand even a small part of the debate we are having here and to know what the union's budget is.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by congratulating the two rapporteurs, james elles and louis grech, who have exercised prudence in their respective draft budgets. prudence does not necessarily mean agreement with the council, because it does not necessarily mean agreeing with the indiscriminate cuts that the council has made in those budget lines which did not interest it, that is to say, all those which were not common foreign and security policy, where parliament did make a reduction. we are very much in agreement with the value for money principle that our rapporteur for the general budget defends, particularly at a time like the present, of extraordinary financial constraint. the prevailing ideology in the european union, which some of us do not share, of applying 1% to the budget, requires, in any case and necessarily, a careful analysis of the budget lines, their level of implementation and the european added value. we may not share the council's view of the value for money concept, but in any case it is good that it is taken as a budgetary principle. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the president-in-office for being present during most of the budget debate; this is not usual and i thank her for it. issues such as the fight against terrorism, the financing of a genuine common immigration policy and the implementation of policies linked to the lisbon strategy are considered as a priority by the european parliament at its first reading. we agree with the strategy on payments proposed by our rapporteur and with the approach proposed on the financing of the common foreign and security policy. finally, mr president, we consider the budgetary reserves to be a very useful instrument, not only for negotiation and sound financial management, but also for us as the budgetary authority to be able to obtain the information which the commission often finds it difficult to provide us with because of practical difficulties.
i would like to join in congratulating the rapporteur, mrs pack, on her good work, and all the members of the committee on culture and education, whose contributions have enriched this text. but i would also like to express my concern about the development of the lifelong learning programme. at first, i remember it was very stimulating to see how we were turning around as a bloc to improve the system of student mobility in europe. we all voted in favour of increasing the funding of the erasmus, leonardo, comenius and other programmes, convinced that this was a very productive investment in the long term. providing financial facilities to participants and, at the same time, simplifying the process of obtaining grants, brought us closer to the objectives set out in the lisbon strategy. but as time goes on, i find it more difficult to maintain this optimism. i see in the surveys that 15-year-old european schoolchildren show poor reading skills and a high school drop-out rate, and that many young people do not complete their studies on time. with this data, i wonder how we're going to meet the challenges of globalization. if we are to create a knowledge society, sustainable economic development and greater social cohesion, we need to set up a strong foundation from the outset, and this can only be achieved through effective education. in other words, to meet the challenges of the future, it is essential to invest more in education. the functioning of existing programmes can be improved and new programmes created. if we make an effort, we may see the numbers gradually prove us right, but we must all try to convince the member states that we need to spend more money on education and training.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the peace process in spain.
in order to close this debate, two motions for resolutions have been tabled, pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12.30 p.m. today, after the formal sitting with the president of the republic of hungary.
we now move on to the next item on the agenda, the report by the european council and the commission statement on the outcome of the informal summit of heads of state or government held in lahti on 20 october 2006.
mr president, i am glad that the immigration problem has been given attention in lahti, but i regret that other issues have been given priority. in this house, when the finnish presidency presented its programme in july, i asked that illegal immigration be a priority issue. the balance of these months does not lead to optimism. on the ground, what is happening off the coast of the canary islands is very serious. the frontex system and the solidarity of the european partners in general have not been up to the task, but perhaps unilateral acts of regularisation have not created the best climate for obtaining the partners' collaboration. illegal immigration is a problem for everyone in an area without internal borders, such as schengen. at european level, it is a matter of decision and implementation. the ideas and plans are already largely set out, for example, in the conclusions of the seville european council in 2002 and the thessaloniki and brussels european councils in 2003. they enshrine the principle that immigration should be integrated into the european union's external action and the need to cooperate with third countries on illegal immigration. there is even a mechanism for assessing the degree of cooperation of third countries and, in addition, the evaluation criteria are also included. but i think that this mechanism has been used too little and too bureaucratically. ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to remind you that the council no longer requires unanimity for decisions on illegal immigration, but that during 2004 and 2005 this problem was relegated to the assaults on the fences of ceuta and melilla. the union cannot react to events and then forget the priorities it had in the past. we have been negotiating a readmission agreement with morocco for more than five years. mr president, we cannot seriously deal with terrorism only after 11 september 2001, with the energy crisis only after the russian-ukrainian crisis, and with illegal immigration only after the deaths at the fences of ceuta and melilla. the european union will be measured by its results. i hope that there will be in the remaining months of the finnish presidency and also at the european council in december, and that the progress made at previous european councils will of course be taken into account.
mr president of the republic of hungary, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour to welcome you, mr president sollyom, to the european parliament. president solim is a distinguished jurist who has always shown his determination to protect law, political freedom and human dignity. he was one of the first five judges whose appointments were agreed at the national round table held in hungary in 1989, when this country and others gained freedom. as president of the constitutional tribunal, president sólyom exercised enormous influence on decisions that strengthened the young democracy and hungarian institutions. as the third president of the republic of hungary, mr solyom has strengthened the weight and prestige of his country. he is an advocate for social and environmental rights. he has earned respect throughout his first year in office, exercising his power with caution, but acting firmly when necessary. he's also a committed environmentalist. this has led to the creation of a european group of green presidents, that is, concerned with environmental problems, an original and creative initiative. (applause) you can imagine to which group the members who are applauding you belong. fifty years ago the uprising of the hungarian people confirmed the strength of popular support for democratic principles and the will to build their own national destiny. there are a number of milestones that we are now remembering and celebrating. it all began in october 1989, when your country proclaimed its independence, and in 1990, when the hungarian parliament declared 23 october a hungarian national holiday, noting that the legacy of the 1956 revolution lives on among us. the european parliament commemorated the hungarian revolution of 1956 yesterday in its plenary session and we shall be adopting a resolution on this subject on thursday. the european parliament will also be celebrating this memorial day this afternoon by opening the photographic exhibition 'hungary - past and future - 1956-2006', to which i would like to invite all members of parliament. mr. president, thank you for being with us at such an important moment in the history of your country and also in the history of all of us. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the republic of hungary. mr president, members of the european parliament, representatives of the council and the commission, ladies and gentlemen, hungary and the world celebrate together the 50th anniversary of the 1956 hungarian revolution and the fight for freedom. it is encouraging and elevating to feel that there is one commemorative event with which everyone can identify. there are no differences of opinion, no reservations. everyone pays tribute to the memory of the hungarian heroes of 1956. now, after 50 years, with a historical perspective, and after the fall of the soviet communist regime, we can clearly see the historic importance of the 1956 hungarian revolution and the fight for freedom. but this is also an event when the world celebrates itself – and it has every reason to do so. we can re-experience together the former enthusiasm with which peoples took sides with the hungarian revolution. the world can now celebrate its generous sacrifice: austria, which had just been liberated, opening the borders for 160 000 hungarian refugees; the blood donations in poland to help to rescue those wounded in the fight for freedom; the tens of thousands of hungarian refugees who found new homes in various countries around the world. but the real reason for this commemoration and joy is that hungary today is an independent, sovereign and democratic state, with the rule of law, where the country can become a member of international organisations, such as the european union, of its own free will. it is to the credit of 1956 that the world looks upon hungary with a positive mind. the heroic struggle of the hungarian freedom-fighters against soviet predominance has earned hungary recognition and appreciation everywhere up to the present day. it has become the custom, since the collapse of the soviet union, to present the hungarian revolution as a mortal blow to the soviet world system. that is not how anyone saw it during the early years of the military compulsion and the years of terror dispensed by the kádár system. at most, 1956 questioned the communist ideology and presented a dilemma to the left-wing, pro-soviet section of the intelligentsia in western europe, by making them face facts. these attitudes can still be seen as a measure of intellectual sincerity. but politically, the soviet union had learnt that it could assert itself in the region without hindrance or constraint: the western powers had no direct security or economic interests there. there was an ambivalence between the real political intentions and propaganda of the great powers, and thereby an ambivalence in the expectations of the hungarian nation. neither the american nor the french or british governments intended to intervene, or even query the integrity of the soviet sphere of influence – they made this clear to the soviet union in october. but they left the hungarian government isolated and uninformed and the freedom-fighters and the population under a misapprehension, for the propaganda of the state-sponsored western radio stations urged them to trust in the arrival of liberating assistance. the communists could build the berlin wall in 1961 and use military intervention to crush the prague spring reform movement in 1968. what caused it to relinquish its sphere of influence in the baltic and central and eastern europe in 1989, and the collapse itself, was not 1956, but inherent systemic weaknesses and the soviet union’s inability to compete either economically or in the arms race. from another point of view, however, the hungarian revolution and struggle for independence provided the first and weightiest evidence of the instability of the communist regimes in the central european states, which possessed different historical, political, and cultural traditions from those of the soviet union. these states had traditions of democracy. national independence had become something of almost intrinsic value. the struggles in poland and hungary in 1956, in czechoslovakia in 1968, and in poland again, headed by the solidarity trade union, from the 1980s onwards, were concurrently struggles for basic democratic freedoms and for limiting soviet influence. these events and struggles led to the democratic transitions in central europe in 1989-90. a common feature of the 1956 revolution and the change of regime in 1989 is that both rejected party-state communism. faithfulness to the revolution and the legitimacy of our claims to it depend on whether we allow the line between our free hungary today and the hungary we had before 1989 to blur. the parallel lesson of 1956 and 1989 is that in both cases, history surpassed the aspirations that wanted more freedom within a socialist system. the greatness of premier imre nagy lies in the fact that he recognised that. he stepped out of his communist past; he stepped out of the soviet world system. he remained a left-wing politician, but he undertook an historic role, he accepted the fate that the revolutionary hungarian nation offered to him. and he would rather die than retreat. am 22. oktober, dem vorabend der revolution, nahmen staatsoberhäupter, ministerpräsidenten und andere hohe gäste an der festveranstaltung in der budapester staatsoper teil. eingeladen waren unter anderem die staaten, die in jenen tagen viele ungarische flüchtlinge aufgenommen hatten. bis ende 1956 flüchteten mehr als 153 000 ungarn nach österreich. später kamen weitere 30 000 personen dazu. österreich sorgte selbstlos für die unterbringung und verpflegung der flüchtlinge und organisierte die fast unentbehrlich gewordene internationale hilfe. die unterstützung erstreckte sich auf beratung, rechtshilfe, arbeitsvermittlung und sogar auf die unterrichtung der schulkinder und die seelsorge. österreich bereitete auch den weg für die auswanderung in drittländer. ein zehntel der ungarn blieb jedoch in österreich, einem land, dem sich die ungarn immer nahe fühlten. die hilfe österreichs erschöpfte sich jedoch nicht in der flüchtlingshilfe. dieses nachbarland verfolgte die ereignisse nicht nur aus geographischer nähe, sondern brachte ungarn eine besondere empathie entgegen. die besatzungstruppen hatten erst vor kurzem das land verlassen, die rote armee war erst vor kurzem aus wien abgezogen. in österreich wusste man, was das leben in einem nicht freien land bedeutete. hier erfuhr man auch tag für tag, wie der mangel an selbstbestimmung alles durchdringt und schadet. wir teilten auch die erfahrung der totalitären systeme. wir schulden auch der bundesrepublik deutschland besonderen dank. am 2. november 1956 kamen die ersten ungarischen flüchtlinge nach deutschland. als die regierung die große zahl der flüchtlinge erkannte, entschied sie sich, 10 % der flüchtlinge asyl zu gewähren, obwohl sie am 7. november zuerst nur 3 000 flüchtlinge aufnehmen wollte. obwohl die flüchtlinge und vertriebenen aus den östlichen bundesländern bereits eine schwere last für das deutsche versorgungssystem bedeuteten, empfing man die ungarn mit großer sympathie. das deutsche rote kreuz gab insgesamt 30 millionen dm für die unterstützung der flüchtlinge aus. 20 000 ungarische flüchtlinge fanden ein neues zuhause in deutschland. 1 200 studenten konnten in das deutsche hochschulwesen eingegliedert werden und in kastl errichtete man ein zweisprachiges gymnasium. dafür danke ich im namen des ungarischen volkes. ötvenhat megünneplésének az akkori felszabadulást, annak elemi és tiszta örömét kell megörökítenie. ez sugárzik minden fennmaradt fényképről, minden filmfelvételről, amelyen az 1956. október 23-i tüntetők arca látható. és minden emlékező erről beszél. egy híres írónak az erről szóló szavaival szeretném befejezni. ottlik géza írta: „aki nem volt ott végig, semmiféle költői képzelőerővel, forradalomért lüktető szívvel, akár lángelmével sem tudhatja felfogni, mi volt ez. én sem tudtam volna előre elképzelni, hogy milyen ez a boldogság, amivel az ember járt budapest utcáin – mert nem ismertem, egyszerűen fogalmam sem volt róla, hogy van ilyen boldogság. […] a rongy, a talán túlságosan ronggyá vált élete – senkinek sem drágább, mint a haza absztrakt becsülete. lássa meg az arcokat, vegye észre rajtuk […] a megkönnyebbült nyugalmat! mert ez a döntő: nem bátor elszántság, nem hősies vakmerőség, hanem ez van a szemükben: boldog megkönnyebbülés. mennek együtt vagy külön, mély, boldog nyugalommal neki a tankoknak, a rájuk célzott ágyúknak, gépfegyvereknek. semmi nem drágább nekik, mint a visszanyert emberi méltóságuk.” köszönöm.
thank you very much, mr president, for bringing back the memory of those events that we are now celebrating. we wish your country the best. europe has acted as a beacon that has guided many countries, not only in eastern but also in western and southern europe, towards freedom and democracy. what you have explained to us certainly increases the knowledge of the younger generations about these historical events. we are very grateful to you for being here and we wish you and the hungarian government continued progress towards full integration into the european union. thank you very much. (applause from the right)
the vote has been announced and everyone is watching the proceedings of the house. i do not think it is appropriate to wait until exactly 12.30 p.m., since i have made it quite clear that it would be after the end of the formal sitting.
mr president, i have heard you, not through simultaneous interpretation but live, in your magnificent spanish, and you announced at the end of the debate on this point this morning that the vote would take place at 12.30. he said nothing more than that the vote would take place at 12.30. i would also ask you, out of respect for the colleagues on an extremely sensitive subject, where every vote counts, as always every vote counts, to have the courtesy of calling for the vote at 12.30 and not at 12.25 or 26.
mr. guardans, i appreciate your praise for my use of castilian. i am quite good at speaking this language and i said, if i remember correctly, at 12.30 p.m., after the formal sitting. the minutes will tell which of us is right, but you do not need to appeal to my sensitivity to make the decisions you consider appropriate.
mr president, i would like to say to you what mr guardans said: that at the end of the debate on the peace process you announced that the vote would be at 12.30 or 12.30, and, moreover, in the spanish you speak so well, what you are saying - at 12.30 after the formal sitting - does not imply any contradiction in the fact that the voting will take place at 12.30. the second part would simply be a safeguard so that if the formal sitting did not end at 12.30 p.m., the vote could then take place. that's what his words mean in spanish.
i'm not going to allow any more questions of order.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
we are examining the motion for a resolution by the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats and the union for a europe of nations group. there is an amendment tabled by the ppe-de group to paragraph 2 of its motion for a resolution. (by electronic vote, parliament rejected the amendment) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution by a qualified majority)
the secretariat informs me that a text is available to members in all languages. i'm assured of that.
it is very clear what the presidency has voted on: we have voted on an amendment to the motion for a resolution and it is very clear what we voted on. we were voting on the resolution tabled by the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats and by the union for a europe of nations group. it is a matter of total deafness not to have understood what we were putting to the vote. (protests from the right) (applause from the left)
mr president, i would like to raise two procedural questions. the first is that the amendment should have been voted by show of hands and not by roll-call vote. (applause from the group of the party of european socialists) this procedural error has led, mr president, as we have just seen, to members being confused about their voting intentions. i therefore ask you, mr president, to correct this error by applying our rules of procedure. the second point of order is that the text of the socialist resolution has been substantially amended - and i stress substantially - and has not been brought into line with the rules of procedure, because it should have been done by a registered amendment, which was not done within the prescribed time limit, or by an oral amendment in the house. the socialist text of the resolution is therefore not in line with the rules of procedure either, mr president, and i ask you to act accordingly. (applause from the right)
mr vidal-quadras, we did not vote by roll call, but by electronic vote. you've been here long enough to know the difference. secondly, the interpretation of the rules of procedure is not your responsibility but that of the president, with the help of the secretariat, and the president is listening to all the reasons that are being put forward in order to take them into account properly and to act in the most appropriate way possible, but please do not pontificate. do not say: this is in accordance with the rules and this is not, because that is not your role. (protests from the right) (applause from the left)
mr president, i would just like to clarify, in view of the confusion which some of the speeches may have caused, that no socialist resolution is to be voted on, but a joint resolution of the socialist group, the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, the green group and the gue/ngl group, that is to say, of several groups in this house together. no socialist resolution is to be voted on, mr president. (applause from the right)
please, we're dealing with a serious and important issue. i ask you to cooperate with the bureau in making a rational and appropriate analysis of what is happening. they don't have to support every intervention with endorsements from one side or the other.
mr president, i simply want to refer to the answer you gave to the vice-president of parliament, mr vidal-quadras, that it is for the president of the european parliament to interpret the rules of procedure. rule 159 (1) of the rules of procedure states that parliament shall, as a rule, vote by show of hands, and rule 159 (2) states that 'when the president decides that the result is doubtful, the vote shall be by electronic procedure'. you, mr president, have conducted an electronic vote before any results were known and have caused confusion. mr president, you have two months left to complete your term in this parliament. do not compromise your independence or your prestige, because you do not deserve it, nor does this parliament. (various reactions)
i shall give the floor to mr poettering for a final point of order, no more, because this could go on forever, and then i shall consult the bureau to take the decision i think appropriate, in accordance with our rules of procedure.
thank you very much, mr poettering. i thank you for coming out to defend the honour of the president of the european parliament. i think mrs doyle's intervention is profoundly unacceptable and has nothing to do with what is happening here. (applause) we have more important things to discuss. i would ask the members of the house to allow me a few minutes to consult the bureau on the three points which have emerged in the course of these speeches. the presidency will then announce its decision and i would remind you that under rule 166 (4) of our rules of procedure the president will take the decision he deems appropriate immediately after the points of order have been raised in relation to what is being discussed and that the president's decision will not be put to a vote. that is, whatever the president decides, it applies. i now ask you to allow me to consult the bureau on the technical questions relating to the three problems raised. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments) ladies and gentlemen, after consulting the house's services and having studied the points in our rules of procedure which refer to the subjects we have discussed, i think it appropriate to proceed as follows:- as regards the resolution tabled by a number of political groups, pse, alde, gue/ngl, greens/efa, i am informed - and i have no reason to doubt it - that the text is available in all the languages. i am also informed that there were last minute amendments to the text yesterday, which the bureau accepted without any formal amendment procedure because it considered that it was not necessary. the resolution tabled by the pse, alde, gue/ngl and greens/efa groups can therefore be voted on in the version last amended when it was tabled for debate. we shall vote on it; secondly, it is quite reasonable to believe that there has been confusion and that some members have voted a second time without paying attention to the precise subject of the vote, although i think the president made that clear. but i think that the objections were made in good faith and that there were certainly errors in the interpretation of what we were voting on. consequently, and in order to really reflect the democratic will of this house, i shall proceed to repeat the two votes. (applause) 'by a show of hands, verified electronically, parliament rejects the amendment.' the result of the second round is therefore the same as that of the first: the amendment has been rejected. (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution by a qualified majority) so the result we have reached is exactly the same as before, but i suppose that everyone will be more reassured and the will of the members will have been better reflected. (parliament adopted the resolution by a qualified majority)
mr president, unfortunately the vote on the peace process in the basque country has been slightly poisoned by the procedural measures, but i believe it is a good day for the process because the european parliament has supported it and has been involved in it. that is fundamental in solving the political conflict that is now taking place in the basque country and the spanish state. steps will now have to be taken to solve the problems in the basque country. on the one hand, there is a need to cease all armed activity and dismantle the terrorist organisation eta, but, on the other hand, the political conflict has to be faced and resolved. if there is no pressure to resolve the political issue, there could be a terrible situation in future. the involvement of the european parliament is very important, because we now have a concrete arena in which to resolve the conflict and that might be the only possible way. europe is the place in which this political issue has to be resolved. we have found the right arena. the basque community, along with political parties, trade unions and the european union, also needs to be involved in the solution.
mr president, as a basque political representative, i believe i am right in saying that for the vast majority of basque citizens, whether in euskadi or euskal herria, today is a great day, a historic day, when the institution representing all europeans, this parliament, finally agrees to look at a part of its internal territory that is dragging along an old conflict, which, because it has not been dealt with in time and in the right way, has in recent years led a group of extremists to resort to violence, sowing death and pain. the basque society today rejects the use of violence to achieve political objectives and, fortunately, there seems to be a sincere commitment to follow democratic ways to resolve the conflict. those who have not wanted to give the citizens a chance to speak instead of the bombs, i would ask them to think again and to take a higher view, and once the majority european vote has been obtained, to democratically abide by the adopted resolution and allow the process to move forward. finally, on behalf of the majority of the basque people, i would like to express my gratitude to all the members of the european parliament who, by voting in favour of the motion for a resolution, have given us a chance for peace. i trust we will not disappoint you.
mr president, like my predecessors in the use of the floor, i would like to congratulate the european parliament on having built a new step on the ladder of peace in the basque country. it has not been an easy task; we have seen it and we have suffered it, but in no peace process are things simple. in these days we have seen certain gestures and certain attitudes which do nothing to help resolve the basque conflict, but this should not make us give up our efforts to find a reasonable solution, one which would allow the complexity of the situation to be channelled into a framework of political discussion in which violence in any form has no place. because, in short, this is what we have voted for and approved today: denouncing violence, showing solidarity with all the victims and supporting peace. sadly, not all are for the work, but there are enough of us to be confident that we are indeed at the beginning of the end. i hope that those who have not supported us today in this resolution will understand that this is, after all, the right way.
mr president, i too am a basque political representative. basque and spanish. i say in this house that basque society has always been against terrorism, not just now. i say in this house that the terrorist organisation eta is not an extremist group, it is a terrorist organisation which has been murdering spanish democracy for forty years. i would like to say in this house that there is no political conflict in spain other than that which exists in any democratic country in the european union, the political conflicts that are characteristic of democracy, and i would like to say that what exists in spain, and in the basque country, is a terrorist organisation called eta, which has been murdering democracy for forty years. mr president, i did not vote for any of the resolutions in a political act opposed to a debate called 'on the peace process in spain', because i, mr president, am 54 years old, have never lived in war, have lived all my life in the basque country and in the basque country we do not lack peace, we lack freedom. so the challenge is freedom, and talking about the peace process contributes to some people who dare to say that terrorism is the product of a political conflict, which does not exist in our country.
in writing. we are voting today on a motion for a resolution in support of the peace process in spain. the content of this resolution means unreserved support for the peace process and the fight against terrorist violence in our country in the terms set by the congress of deputies in may 2005. in this statement, the congress gave support to the zapatero executive to initiate processes of dialogue with those who wish to abandon violence, always respecting legality and democratic principles.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the council, i should like to thank mr de keyser for his important and very comprehensive report on the situation in syria. the council agrees with many of the concerns expressed in the report in relation to syria. as de keyser states in his report, syria can play an important role in the middle east as 'a link between the parties to the peace process and as a facilitator of the resolution of regional conflicts'. the council therefore decided in august to authorise the high representative, mr javier solana, and the presidency to liaise with all relevant parties which could have an impact on the solution to the crisis in lebanon and the wider middle east situation. these parties include, of course, syria. after the dramatic events of the summer, it is important to stabilise the situation in lebanon and its neighbouring areas. foreign minister the judge's meeting with the syrian foreign minister at the end of august was a clear message to syria. syria is expected to contribute to the implementation of resolutions 1559, 1680 and 1701. syria must support the national reconstruction process in lebanon and make every effort to stabilise the internal political situation in lebanon. the issue of the supply of arms to non-lebanese forces and the question of arms smuggling will have a major impact on whether a ceasefire can be built on a lasting basis. the demarcation of the lebanese-syrian border and the establishment of diplomatic relations are also open issues. the resolution of the problem area of sheba will also require cooperation with syria. the syrian authorities must also continue to cooperate with the brammertz commission investigating the assassination of former lebanese prime minister hariri. the activities of palestinian organisations based in damascus and the support given to them by syria are an issue outside the scope of resolution 1701 but of importance for stability in the region. the situation in the middle east is also directly affected by the relationship between syria and its actions towards iraq and iran. the council also closely monitored developments in the human rights situation in syria. the arrests of human rights defenders and signatories of the beirut-damascus declaration in spring were particularly worrying. the fact that some of them have been recently released is, of course, welcome. the eu will continue to closely monitor the implementation of the freedoms of expression and assembly in the country. it is clear that syria must also act in accordance with international human rights principles. the reopening of the eu-supported civil society training centre is an important objective. the center closed in the spring, just a week after it opened. continuous contacts with syria shall be maintained in particular through euro-med cooperation. the foreign ministers' meeting in tampere in november, to which syria has also been invited, provides a good forum for discussion. syria is a major player in the middle east. depending on its choice, it can be either a distraction or a constructive partner. syria's historically strong relations with lebanon mean that it has a particularly important role in the implementation of un security council resolutions on the situation in lebanon. the union has consistently stressed the need to respect the right to self-determination and the territorial integrity and political independence of lebanon. it is important for the stability of lebanon and the region as a whole that, among other things, the smuggling of arms into lebanon be prevented. syria must guard its borders to achieve this goal. the council has stated its willingness to improve relations with syria, whose behaviour is in its favour. the ball is now in syria. in the right circumstances, the union may, inter alia, reconsider the possibility of signing an association agreement. this would naturally contribute to cooperation between the eu and syria, particularly in the economic field, and to the reforms necessary for the development of syria, as the report suggests.
, member of the commission. mr president, first of all i think this is a very timely discussion. thank you for putting it on the agenda. i have followed closely the discussions in the afet committee on ms de keyser’s substantive and comprehensive report. the report is a fair account of the internal and regional challenges facing syria. i welcome this reflection by the european parliament on the way forward with syria. after the conflict in lebanon and in the new context of united nations security council resolution 1701 (2006), it is indeed the right moment to reassess where we are with our current policy. syria is a long-standing partner under the barcelona process and is a potential candidate for the european neighbourhood policy in the medium term. i share your view that we have a strong interest in bringing that country closer to europe. syria, as we all know, is an essential player for stability in the middle east. it is a key part of the puzzle when it comes to finding a long-term solution to the conflicts in the region and also in the implementation of resolution 1701 in full. in this critical moment for the peace process, damascus has the power to be part of the solution and not part of the problem. this means that we expect syria, as you have stated in the motion for a resolution, to pass the right messages to hezbollah and hamas, to prevent arms shipments into lebanon, as our colleague from the council has said, and to help with the settlement on the shebaa farms. as i have indicated, i believe that re-engaging with syria should be part of our strategy. a different issue is then whether and how far we can re-engage here and now. the first thing we need in order to re-engage with syria is for its leaders to show their commitment and their interest in moving forward and taking positive steps on a number of issues. as you well know, lately we have gone through difficult times in our relationship with syria. ms de keyser’s report addresses a number of the political divergences. overcoming the political deadlock depends on the leadership’s ability to translate some of its words of goodwill into deeds of goodwill. syria has a new opportunity at this critical time for the peace process to demonstrate that it is serious about contributing positively to regional stability. in the absence of an association agreement, we have limited scope to tackle matters of concern. nevertheless, we have tried where we can, and where we feel it is of interest for the people of syria. we have tried to continue programmes in those areas that directly benefit the citizens of syria. for example, on human rights, the european union uses diplomatic channels to address the most serious violations, including, for instance, the cases of prisoners of conscience. we have also reacted to the limitations on freedom of expression and the wave of arrests that accompanied the publication of the beirut-damascus declaration last may. but it is not by cutting off contacts that we will achieve much progress. with no dialogue, we have no influence. we should therefore turn the situation around, give a positive perspective to relations with syria and set out the areas where we expect progress. we do so in part through our cooperation programmes. syria now seems to be well engaged on the road to economic transition and we welcome the approval of syria’s national agenda for reforms sponsored by deputy prime minister dardari last may. support for the implementation of the reform process, including progressive steps to political opening, could be the focus of our action in the next few years, if things go well. cooperation under the enpi – the european neighbourhood policy instrument – will allow us to give syria the medium-term prospect of full participation in the neighbourhood policy. the enp will then bring additional benefits and, we hope, a more interesting package for them, when the time is ripe. as for the association agreement, it is still on the table. we have finalised all technical preparations and we have initialled the agreement. now, it is pending a decision on signature from the council. signature is a process. so far, political circumstances have not been right. member states still expect syria to take more positive and credible steps to make signature possible, including on regional issues such as lebanon and palestine. syria’s recent statements to facilitate the implementation of security council resolution 1701 may be encouraging signs in this respect, as are president assad’s calls for resuming peace talks, which have had some positive echoes in israel. like the european parliament, the commission is a strong believer in dialogue. therefore, i very much hope that the positive messages that we have received from damascus lately will be transformed into deeds and that we will be able to restore a strong relationship with that country.
i would like to congratulate mrs de keyser on her draft recommendation and on all the work she has been doing on relations with syria. i think it is important that we take this debate into account and place it in the context that is most appropriate to it, mr president. and this context, as the commissioner has very well said, is to take stock of the situation in the transition towards the association agreement, without forgetting that we must also encourage a parliamentary dialogue with syria, given the importance - as has been stressed here - that this country has, from a strategic point of view, in the complex context of the region. but i think it is also important to stress - and the text of the resolution says it very clearly - that we are not at a time when parliament has to give its assent to the association agreement. the resolution 'draft recommendation' says very clearly that the conditions are not yet met: a number of progress must be made in a very clear way. i don't think it's good news that syria has concluded a defense agreement with iran. substantial progress is needed to respect the traditional doctrine of the european union in the field of democracy and respect for human rights. the un security council resolutions must be respected and the territorial integrity of lebanon and syria must be respected. cooperation must be pursued in the investigation of the assassination of former prime minister hariri, and progress must be made in the field of the abolition of the death penalty, respect for religious minorities, etc. i think, therefore, mr president, that there is still a long way to go. there is good news, like the appointment of mr. dandari as deputy prime minister. i had the privilege of meeting him after a mission in lebanon. i believe that it is only on the basis of these premises, as the commissioner said a moment ago, that we must transform this catalogue of good intentions into concrete deeds, so that the european union can give its approval to this important association agreement between the union and syria.
president of the council. mr president, the establishment of the agency and the requirements concerning its tasks, structure and financial management are laid down in the council regulation of 26 october 2004 establishing an agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union. the regulation provides for the communication to the council of the agency's programme of activities, the general and specific risk analyses prepared by the agency, the annual general report on its activities and the agency's budget. only the commission may propose measures to amend the provisions of the regulation. the adoption of the measures concerning the organisational structure, staff policy and work programme of the agency shall be the primary responsibility of the management board of the agency, in which the council shall not participate. the development of community policy and legislation on external border control remains the responsibility of the eu institutions. close coordination between the agency and the institutions must therefore be ensured and arrangements are in place for this purpose in accordance with the regulation establishing the agency. in this context, i would draw your attention to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a mechanism for the establishment of rapid border intervention teams. it is intended to strengthen the operational activities of the agency and to promote solidarity between the member states and the community in crisis situations. the european council last december proposed that the member states, the council and the commission should take a number of measures before the end of this year to improve practical cooperation between member states. these include the strengthening of the control and surveillance of the eu's southern maritime border and the medsea study on the mediterranean coastguard network, which has already been completed by the border agency. in recent months, the council, at its meeting on 24 july and at the informal ministerial meeting in september, has paid particular attention to improving operational cooperation between the member states and the agency, with particular regard to the situation in the mediterranean and africa. the role of the agency and its involvement in operational activities, particularly in the mediterranean and in africa, were discussed. the council welcomed the measures already taken by frontex and the commission and stressed the need to further develop operational cooperation. the council also adopted conclusions on the strengthening of the external maritime border in the south at the beginning of october. in its conclusions, it called on frontex to promote a feasibility study on the establishment of a european surveillance system covering, initially, the whole of the community's southern sea border and the mediterranean. the council also asked the border agency to consider the establishment of interlinked regional centres available to frontex for operational matters in different maritime zones or sub-zones. however, the council should not propose to allocate appropriations to the budget of the agency for additional measures. in accordance with article 33 of the council regulation establishing an agency for the operational management of the external borders of the member states of the european union and the hague programme, the activities of the agency will be evaluated before the end of next year on the basis of an evaluation report by the commission.
madam president, i am reassured by the council's response, and i will tell you something surprising: frontex has worked. although it is still in an experimental stage, its intervention in the canary islands, in the large area of sea surrounding the canary islands, has been effective. the concern is the precariousness of the institutions and the lack of economic and financial means. the presidency has referred to this, but the specific question i want to ask is whether you think it is possible to continue the frontex operation in the atlantic after 1 january, and whether the council does indeed think it is worth spending money on means, on maintaining this agency, which, i repeat, has worked, is working and is proving its effectiveness.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to express my appreciation for the opportunity to respond to some of the questions raised in this debate and to express my thanks for all the positive contributions. if nairobi is a success, it will mean that we have made the right decisions and the right agreements. the commission recognises the need for the european union to maintain its leading role in not only international but also domestic efforts to fight climate change. i agree that it is important to assist developing countries to adapt to the adverse effects of climate change and to help them in deploying sustainable technologies. a few days ago, the commission proposed the new global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund. the anticipated total initial funding from public and commercial sources is eur 100 million. this new initiative aims to boost climate-friendly technologies in africa in particular. in addition, we have the adaptation fund. we hope it will be agreed in nairobi to make this operational. the fund will be financed by 2% on the proceeds of the clean development mechanism. we expect about eur 350 million to be available for investments in developing countries and in africa for the period 2008 to 2012. the european union can only be credible in its leadership role when it achieves meaningful reductions in domestic emissions and complies with international commitments under the kyoto protocol. the second national allocation plans of the european union emissions trading scheme will be a decisive test. if member states put more allowances into the european market than companies are likely to emit collectively, the european union emissions trading scheme would fail. mr davies said that collectively the first 17 plans notified propose a total allocation that exceeds 2005 emissions of these member states by about 15%, which is really a lot. i am determined that we shall not permit the european union emissions trading scheme to fail and the commission will assess all the national allocation plans in a consistent and fair manner. all the member states will have to contribute to the success of the emissions trading scheme in the period 2008 to 2012. i agree that we should try very hard with our public relations and the possibilities for influencing our governments, but also your involvement and action is important in this crucial phase of the emissions trading scheme. i would ask you that together we ensure that, in all the capitals of the member states and in brussels, this debate on the allocation is about how much more we should reduce, rather than how much more we can emit. in the next few days, a communication on the emissions trading scheme should be adopted by the commission, launching a review of this important scheme. this will address its scope, how to make it simpler and more predictable, strengthening compliance and linking up with emissions trading schemes elsewhere. as regards tackling transport emissions, which contribute to about 22% of the emissions in the european union, this year the commission will put forward a legislative proposal to include the aviation sector in european union emissions trading. also this year, the commission will review the possibilities for further reductions of carbon dioxide emissions from cars after 2008-2009, with a view to meeting the community target of 120g of carbon dioxide per kilometre by 2012. that will, of course, require legislation. the commission is also exploring options for a legal framework in the european union to allow the safe capture and underground storage of carbon dioxide from industrial installations, provided that that is considered appropriate. the commission also intends to promote adaptation measures, helping the regional and national decision-makers to deal with increasingly evident impacts of climate change. on the basis of a green paper on adaptation to climate change, to be launched at a conference in brussels on 1 december, the commission will begin a public debate on the need to adapt to unavoidable climate change. most importantly, we will have to further frame the international debate after 2012. next january, the commission is planning to release its energy package. a core part of the package will be the strategic european union energy review. this will put forward an alternative energy scenario for the european union that is in line with the european union’s long-term climate change objective. close to the adaptation of the energy package, the commission will also be releasing a green paper on the european union’s views on further action to tackle climate change. this green paper will respond to the european council’s request to develop a european union strategy to limit global warming to 2°c, compared to pre-industrial levels. it will identify concrete proposals, both within the european union and internationally, for achieving that objective. one of our main objectives will be to bring on board the united states and other fast-developing countries like china and india in a common but differentiated way, as provided for by the united nations convention on climate change. the commission will ensure that the energy package and the green paper put forward a climate and energy strategy for the european union that is coherent, coordinated and sustainable. i believe that since last year in montreal there is a certain new momentum in the international debate on climate change. while we need to keep up the pace in domestic efforts, in the international process we will have to remain patient and continue to build trust. finally, i would like to say that al gore has really helped a lot in raising awareness in the european union and i had the honour to introduce him to a packed theatre in brussels about a month ago.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, members of the house. i would first like to congratulate mrs wortmann-kool on this excellent report. the resolution shows that there is a broad agreement between parliament, the council and the commission on the promotion of inland waterway transport. water transport is safe, low-polluting, energy-efficient and offers large spare capacities. despite its advantages, inland waterway transport is underused: it accounts for only 6% of the total land transport of goods in the union, while in some member states its modal share is 40%. today, europe has 36,000 km of navigable waterways. it is a true transeuropean network. we need a european vision to promote this mode of transport. it can achieve a much larger modal share if, as you have just pointed out, madam president, our vision is accompanied by concrete actions. i thank parliament for its support for me in this report by mrs wortmann-kool. i shall confine myself, mr president, to a few comments on the main points, starting with the improvement of market conditions. we must develop new, innovative and multimodal services to enable inland navigation to play its role between the major seaports and the major cities in the hinterland. the inland waterway sector is characterised by more than 70% small businesses, often boat builders. the conditions for strengthening their market position must be created, for example by improving access to finance by removing regulatory and administrative barriers and by providing clear indications of state aid. the commission will start work on state aid to this sector. these guidelines are expected to be published in 2008-09. that's for market conditions. as regards fleet modernisation, inland navigation needs to improve its logistical efficiency and environmental and safety performance. innovations must be in the area of shipbuilding - for example, engines and propulsion - and in information and communication technologies for what are known as river information services. a regulatory framework already exists but real implementation of the system needs to be ensured. this also applies to the standards for fuels for inland waterway transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is not compromised. i come now to the promotion of employment and skills. the shipping industry is suffering from a shortage of crews and a growing shortage of candidates for succession to the companies. the strategy should focus on improving working and living conditions on board and vocational training. i intend to propose harmonisation of crew and licence requirements through mutual recognition in 2008. the image of river navigation must be corrected, as it is currently the image of inland navigation. the real potential of inland waterway transport must be made known by setting up a network to promote transport by waterways, as is the case in some regions. as regards river infrastructure, there are bottlenecks within the network which hinder the competitiveness of waterway transport. the obstacles must therefore be removed. this is primarily the responsibility of the member states, but the community can contribute to this through the transeuropean networks. in this context, the commission gives priority to the development of the two main river routes: the rhine-meuse-danube route and the seine-escaut link. in the new financial regulation submitted to parliament for approval, we have proposed a 30% rate of support for river projects and the inclusion of these projects in the multiannual programme. i hope that the council, like parliament, will follow our proposals. the contribution of intelligent transport systems is indispensable. we are preparing the implementation of river information services. it is in fact a system for managing information on inland waterway transport, which will enable boatmen to plan their journeys better, reduce waiting times at locks and ensure continuous monitoring of transport. madam rapporteur, you mentioned the appointment of a ten coordinator. i must say that we have been able to appreciate the positive results achieved by the six coordinators already in place. president costa has also asked for the appointment of a coordinator for inland waterway transport, as well as for maritime transport. i'm telling you, my intention is to pick two coordinators in the next few weeks. the naiades programme provides for a wide range of actions: regulatory harmonization, strategic promotion and coordination measures. however, all these actions will only be effective if the institutional framework is appropriate. today, however, we are faced with a fragmentation of resources and a dispersion of efforts at different levels. the framework must therefore be adapted to the requirements of the enlarged european market. we're looking at a number of options. the results of this analysis will be discussed with all the parties concerned, with the member states and the international river commissions. in conclusion, this naiades programme must be a success and to this end, it must be possible to count on the support of those responsible at all levels: national, regional authorities, river boards and companies. i thank parliament and you, mrs wortmann-kool, for sending a strong signal with this report in favour of the promotion of inland waterway transport, which europe needs more than ever.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i was saying to the rapporteur, mrs wortmann-kool, that so far in this debate tonight we have only had women speakers, so that later they will say that transport is only for men. perhaps naiades is inspiring us, and perhaps the commissioner should take note and appoint two coordinators for naiades. but let us now turn to the serious issues and mrs wortmann-kool's report. we express our formal support in principle for the integrated european action programme for inland waterway transport, called naiades, and for it to be given a more relevant political profile. it is true, and we see it, that the use of waterways varies greatly throughout europe, from 0.1% in countries such as the united kingdom, italy, or even somewhat less in my country, to 40% in the netherlands, which has a higher number of waterways. even, sadly, in some cases, canals and rivers have been abandoned. but there are laudable attempts at recovery. in my country, because of the difficult topography, canals and rivers are more useful for irrigation and drinking water than for navigation, but we are nevertheless aware of and support the initiatives concerning the navigable section of the guadalquivir from seville to the sea, which is even trying to get nominated for a transeuropean network. moreover, i am also pleased at this moment with the efforts of my city, zaragoza, which will host expo 2008, and which, in this context, wants - and has proposed this within the objective in favour of water and sustainable development - to recover the navigable function of the ebro. we are therefore happy to be able to welcome this european impulse. we speak of sustainable development when we refer to the potential of waterways to help reduce the impact of co2 emissions by up to 75% compared to road and also - and this is why it is so important - when we promote this waterway network at european level and support new ways of making this sector more competitive and efficient. mrs wortmann-kool has done an excellent job as rapporteur, and we look forward to the commission's next proposals to improve the economic and competitive impact of this new sector. we particularly support the strengthening of infrastructure, that is to say, that the thousands of kilometres of inland waterways and the hundreds of inland ports, with the infrastructure of locks, etc., which have already been named, finally become a network of connections that strengthens regional and territorial cohesion. that is why some of the amendments which we have already tabled in committee and which were incorporated, proposed greater inclusion of this sector in the transeuropean networks programmes. we have also raised the question of support for river information services, which we believe will greatly increase the efficiency and safety of the sector. we also think it is an excellent idea to get more financial support for the potential in the inland container sector, although there are still major shortcomings. and in the report on logistics, which i hope to be able to present in this house, i will of course also incorporate the proposals made by mrs wortmann-kool on improving logistics and innovation and technological progress to reduce operating costs.
mr president, mr trichet, ladies and gentlemen, the presentation and debate in parliament of the 2005 annual report of the central bank is an accountability which makes the independence of the central bank compatible with democratic control. i would like to make three brief remarks on the impact of monetary policy, the need for financial integration and the future composition of the board. the objectives of monetary policy are to control inflation and to contribute to the general economic objectives. at the end of 2005, after two and a half years of silence, the european central bank raised interest rates, inflation was two tenths of 2%, and there was a modest growth in the euro area of 1.4%. these are the macroeconomic data, but the results of monetary policy require to complement this perspective with a more refined approach, which, in my view, requires, on the one hand, to examine the internal, marked divergences in inflation and growth that occur between the euro-area member states, which is important to know the impact of monetary policy, and, above all, to see that there are no persistent imbalances. and secondly, we must also know how these monetary policy conditions are transferred to the market and, in particular, to small and mediumsized enterprises. in 2005, the european central bank published its first report on financial integration in the euro area, and i congratulate it on that. it's a very important contribution. accelerated globalisation is bringing about changes in financial markets and products that pose new challenges. when the single currency was designed, systemic risks could be addressed through monetary policy instruments. new initiatives are now needed. it is therefore important to continue to make progress in economic and monetary union, to achieve new goals but also to maintain the effectiveness of monetary policy in the face of new risks. and finally, on the composition of the executive committee, i support greater parliamentary control, to achieve greater professionalism and competence, and also a gender perspective, mr president. in the photo of your governing body there is only one woman.
ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote on the budget, i would like to point out that the president of the chamber of deputies of chile, mr antonio leal labrin, is here today in the gallery. (applause) mr leal labrin is accompanied by mr gonzalo duarte leiva and mr germán becker alvear, members of the european parliament. we welcome you and thank you for your visit.
the conference of presidents has decided to postpone the visit of the ad hoc delegation to lebanon, israel and palestine, which i hope will satisfy the concerns expressed. thank you for bringing this matter to the attention of the house.
mr president, you know that i try to be serious in my speeches and, as the rules say that all documents which are officially handled in this house must be available in all the official languages, i draw your attention to the fact that i am going to vote for amendments which are only available in three languages: english, french and german; all three are very respectable, as are the others. i would therefore point out that this text is not available in all the official languages, and certainly not in my own, since this may create problems in the future.
the secretariat services tell me that they are sure that they are in all languages, including yours and mine. i understand that you are referring not to the texts we are going to vote on but to the voting list. this list is available in three languages, as usual, but the texts on which we are going to vote are in all the languages, so that our rules of procedure are not violated. we shall nevertheless consider the matter for later parts of the house.
the fact is that the conference of presidents, after hearing you, has decided to postpone the visit of this ad hoc delegation. this is the operative, the fundamental; the rest are considerations and interpretations and each one will make his own.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
i would point out to the honourable members that, under the provisions of the treaties, draft amendments relating to so-called non-compulsory expenditure must receive the votes of the majority of members of the european parliament, i.e. 367 votes, in order to be adopted. for amendments relating to compulsory expenditure, a majority of the votes cast is sufficient. before the vote, mr elles wishes to propose a few technical amendments.
i thank you very much for your constructive comment, but we have voted on the amendment in question, so we did not have to vote on the text to which you refer.
yes, mr alvaro, i understand your concern, but we have verified that there is a quorum in accordance with the rules of procedure and that the votes are valid. - before the vote on amendment no 11:
those are the kinds of speeches we like to hear when we are in the chair! (laughter)
we shall conclude with the explanations of vote.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, in the two and a half years that i have been a member of parliament, this is probably the third time, if not more, that we have had to speak about human rights violations in tibet, and i am afraid it will not be the last. but the difference between this time and the previous ones is that, this time, we have filmed facts that prove that the attempts by the chinese authorities to deny them are instrumental and that, at the same time, the attempt by the xinhua news agency to prove that this was an action in self-defence also has no basis whatsoever. so we are faced with a fact which clearly calls for an investigation, as has been said. i agree with it and support it, but it also demands to be dealt with as a fundamental issue in the framework of the eu-china dialogue. it is not, i repeat, the first time, but it is really starting to get a little sad that, given the opportunity we have to have this dialogue with china, and on the eve of the 2008 olympic games, we do not stress again and again that the situation in tibet could be resolved if there really was a little political will on the part of the chinese authorities, which, for the moment, we have not yet seen.
author. - mr president, unlike tibet, guatemala has not been spoken of very often in this house, at least not since i have been here. it is, however, a small central american country which has suffered for many years from a very harsh repression, a very harsh dictatorship, from which some officials have emerged, until now, unscathed from any persecution. the spanish national court has issued an international search and seizure warrant and what we are doing here is supporting the extradition of general rios montt, the main person responsible, and five other generals, some of whom were de facto presidents, that is, dictators, during those thirty years in which 200 000 people were killed, 45 000 disappeared and 1/10 of the population was displaced; the vast majority of the displaced population - 83% - belonged to mayan communities. but there have also been european, belgian and spanish victims, priests especially. i think, mr president, that it is only fair that, just as we in this parliament supported the extradition of pinochet and fujimori, we should now, unanimously if possible, support the extradition of general ríos montt and his accomplices.
the author. mr president, i also naturally agree with what my colleague, mr yáñez-barnuevo, has just said, because ten years after the signing of the peace agreements in guatemala, a country which is seeking membership of the security council and with which an association agreement is being negotiated, the global agreement on human rights is still not being implemented. and this is a matter of great concern in a country which, as has been said, has been the victim of dictatorships, genocides, crimes against humanity, and whose perpetrators - and this is the most serious of all - continue to live with impunity, for the sake of the country and the world. we must therefore welcome, and we do so in this resolution, the fact that on 7 july the spanish national court decreed this international search and seizure order. because it can allow, in some way, to start correcting this deficit of impunity and actually make the people responsible pay for what they did. but we shouldn't just stay here. we must also ask for the guatemalan authorities to cooperate effectively in this area. we must therefore ask them to be as cooperative as possible in this area of growing cooperation, so that, on the basis of this international agreement, they can help to arrest, hand over and try these people. we must also ask the banking authorities, who have been reaping the benefits and enrichment of which these people have been enjoying, to cooperate so that the latter can assume their civil and financial responsibilities. finally, it would be very useful if europol and interpol could cooperate in this area as far as possible.
mr president, i was in my office when i was expelled from it by officials of this parliament who told me that there was a fire drill. when i came in, i found that the resolution on tibet and others had already been voted, and i would now like to record, by going to the secretariat, the meaning of my vote, the votes i was unable to cast because the services expelled me from my office and i was unable to come down to the plenary.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 26 october 2006.
the minutes of the sitting of 26 october 2006 have been distributed. does anyone wish to speak on this?
appropriate steps shall be taken to make the necessary correction. (the minutes were approved)
we note your observation. i do not know what the legal scope of the request is, but the secretariat will study it and, if necessary, forward it to the committee which may be competent to examine the merits of its remark.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 9 november 2006. the following amendments have been proposed:luni:i have received a request from the socialist group to postpone the debate on the report by mrs bachelot-narquin on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund. who would like to explain this request on behalf of the socialist group?
mr bonde, as you know, the conference of presidents has already taken your approach into account and has confirmed that the composition of the delegations of each committee is the responsibility of the members of each committee, so it is up to the committee to decide on the appropriate representation. today's speech comes - and all members should know this - after the conference of presidents has already considered and decided on your concern.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
this is a matter of some importance. i cannot answer that because, as you know, we are not invited to participate in that summit, but i am sure that both the commission and the council will take poland's problems into account when dealing with the european union's relations with russia.
mr president, unfortunately volkswagen announced last week that it would cut its workforce in its european factories, which may affect the one in pamplona, spain, the one in brussels, belgium and the one in palmela, portugal. in germany too, 20 000 of the 100 000 workers in the factory may be made redundant. this is going to represent a loss of one-fifth. in the other factories, 2,400 jobs may disappear. if we add to this the problems we have had with opel and general motors in portugal, we are undoubtedly facing a very serious problem, an industrial crisis that requires a response. i believe that we should not delay any longer in reaching a framework agreement for the whole of the european car industry and a code of conduct with multinational companies, which are the main safeguards for jobs. i think it is time for the commission and the european institutions to take a very strong stand on this.
this closes this spot.
the next item is the report by mr josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report on the eurozone 2006 (2006/2239 (ini)) (a6-0381/2006)
the rapporteur. mr president, this is the first time that this parliament has discussed a report on the economic situation in the euro area and that is why i attach particular importance to this report, especially as this debate, this analysis, which we are carrying out jointly for the first time, is taking place at a time when the situation is politically complex and economically doubtful. i say politically complex, because, in dealing here with institutional questions, i cannot ignore the ongoing debate on what to do with the constitutional treaty. i cannot ignore the fact that this report is being discussed in a 'new era' of monetary policy, with interest rates that have been rising for some time and threaten to continue rising, at a time when we are launching the stability and growth pact as revised by the commission and when, for the first time, member states are coming before the european institutions to give an account of what they have done with the lisbon strategy in their national reform plans. i say confused economic situation because, while it is true - and i share the commission's analysis - that the economic situation is good, much better than it was in previous stages, i want to stress that our potential growth, 2%, is not enough to absorb european unemployment, to keep up with our competitors and to maintain our standard of living. the report is structured, as is traditional in this house, around several headings: macroeconomic policies, reforms, with particular emphasis on the internal market, and institutional questions, with emphasis on the coordination of economic policies and external representation. in the field of macroeconomic policy, there is no great change from what we said in the debate on the broad economic guidelines. the recipe in macroeconomic policies is more stability, more stability, and more stability. in relation to monetary policy, what we emphasize - and i repeat, institutional issues - is that we would like more transparency and clarity in the european central bank. we'd like to know why he does what he does and how he manages and doses the two pillars on which he bases his decisions. we therefore ask for the publication of the short minutes setting out the arguments for and against a particular decision. as regards budgetary policy, the first finding of this report is that the momentum of monetary policy may be losing its momentum and the torch must be passed to budgetary policy, which leads us, as i have stressed before, to ask the commission to interpret the stability and growth pact strictly and to ask the member states to make a greater effort to reduce their deficits, especially in times of 'fat cow disease'. we also call for a new approach, namely greater coordination of the budgetary timetables and of the forecasts which the member states take into account when setting their budgetary scenarios. it is not necessary for countries participating in the european economic union to have different forecasts on oil prices, interest rates or exchange rates; we would like to know what we are talking about in the discussions we have with the national parliaments. as regards public debt, we also call for a stronger effort to reduce public debt, as is traditional, to free up resources and to address the lisbon strategy and the budgetary challenges that will arise from the ageing of the population. the last point - which has been repeated - is a review of tax systems to promote the competitiveness of the european economy. in the field of reforms, the recipe is lisbon and more lisbon. we want the public to know what the behaviour of each member state is. we therefore call for a code of conduct which will allow us to put more pressure on the most backward and which will also allow them, through the export of good practice, to know how the smartest people in the class work. in the internal market: freedom, more freedom against the protectionist temptations of recent times; development of the services market. in short, consolidation of the fundamental freedoms. on institutional matters - i want to focus on the better functioning of the union - we are asking for a trialogue - i know the commissioner is not enthusiastic about the idea - between the council, the commission and parliament, to be held quarterly, in parallel with the dialogue we have with the european central bank. we ask, in order to facilitate this dialogue, that the eurogroup draw up a road map indicating where the euro area is heading in the next two years. we ask the commission to provide us with a more precise set of tools for encouraging dialogue in subsequent reports and we invite the commissioner and the council to meet with us every quarter. the commission's external representation is not consistent with the international weight of the euro. we welcome the fact that the member states have acted with one voice in singapore, at the meetings of the international institutions, and we call for more coordination and imaginative efforts to have a single representation of the member states in the international monetary fund, the world bank and the other international institutions. i thank all the alternative rapporteurs and all the colleagues for the effort they have made.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs lienemann sincerely, and i do not do so in a superficial or formal way. i think you have achieved something important with this directive. thanks to his vast experience, he is extremely familiar with european philosophy and legislative formulas and has succeeded in producing a concise, short directive: despite the number of amendments, it does not have too many things and its own amendments are very general ideas typical of a framework directive. i know that you have worked with experts and have been open to many suggestions; it has not even been necessary to resort to amendments to incorporate some of them. i would like to say that it is an extraordinary and wonderful thing that europe is finally taking care of the sea. his time has come. but i also say that this directive must be the beginning of further legislative development, because, precisely because it is a framework directive, there are still many aspects which will have to be developed in the future, and that is what i want to talk about. for example, amendment no 27, which is virtually identical to amendment no 86 tabled by my group, suggests a number of aspects which should be developed: amongst other things, activities at sea, a number of industrial activities, many of them new, such as desalination itself - i am not against it, but it has not yet been studied - and methodologies for studying the impact on the marine environment, which are virtually 'in tatters', that is to say, unfinished. i also believe that indicators should be developed further and that digitized charts should be drawn up, which should also be exploited in the cultural field. i think one of the great treasures that the history of the world and the history of europe have is precisely the archaeological maps. it is a theme that must be developed to preserve heritage and i think it will be one of the most suggestive discoveries for all of us.
mr president, the blackout of 4 november has once again demonstrated the high interdependence of the electricity networks of the member states. ten million citizens affected and a dozen countries give us an idea of the gravity and scope of this incident. there is certainly a positive note, which has been the speed and efficiency of the reaction of the operators, who managed, by taking the appropriate measures, to solve the problem in just under an hour. but while this should bring us satisfaction, we should not tempt our luck. you, commissioner, have said that a thorough investigation will be carried out into the causes of this misfortune and this must certainly be done, because we draw very valuable lessons from each of these crises. i am sure that when you have all the accurate information you will pass it on to this house so that we can analyse it too. i fully agree with you, commissioner, on the need, which you mentioned recently, to create a formal group at european level of transmission system operators who can make technical proposals on network security standards and other issues relevant to the matter before us. i proposed a similar initiative a couple of years ago on the occasion of the report on security of supply and i must say that, on the part of the regulators and on the part of many colleagues in this house, the initiative was not very successful. i hope that after this latest crisis, this proposal will be re-examined with more realism. and finally, mr president, commissioner, i would like to convey a thought to the council from here: it is high time that in a europe where there is free movement of services, goods, capital and people, where twelve member states have the same monetary policy, where we all share an international trade policy, we should stop pretending that the decisions we take on energy are exclusively our own. this latest mishap has made that very clear. it is not a question of taking away the sovereignty of any member state, but of doing together all those things in which joint action is to the benefit of all.
mr president, commissioner, the mid-term reform of the cap was announced as a mere mid-term review and yet it has been one of the most far-reaching reforms that this policy has undergone since its inception. given this background and given the public statements you have been making in recent months on the quota system, which have caused quite a bit of alarm and uncertainty in the sector, i would like you to make it perfectly clear that the check scheduled for 2008 is to be used to make sure that the reform is working and that in no case does the commission intend to go further or to move ahead of the date on which this parliament gave its opinion during the debates on the last reform - and i remind you that it gave its opinion in favour of extending the current rules until the financial year 2014-15 in accordance with the commission's proposal. other colleagues have made similar comments. this horizon of stability, which the commission proposed at the time, remains essential for an economic activity which, like any other, needs to plan actions, pay back investments and prepare for what the future will bring, relying for this purpose on a previously established regulatory framework. in my region, galicia, as well as in other regions mentioned, such as the autonomous region of the azores or northern portugal - i would like to thank mr freitas for making this debate possible through his question - farms have a decisive social, environmental and territorial rebalancing role. the agricultural unions argue that it is in the galician model, based on family farms, that the multifunctional role of this type of farm and its capacity to fix population to the territory is best perceived. if the commission wants to change the rules of the game, it must first explain what it intends to do, when and how it will do it. all this with the utmost transparency, because uncertainty, madam commissioner, is the worst scenario for professionals in the sector. the sector needs stability and not sudden changes, time to adapt and plan, and for this it seems appropriate that we finish implementing the current reform before thinking about the next one.
mr president, madam commissioner, as the representative of galicia, the milk-producing region par excellence, i think that this oral question to the european commission today is very timely. commissioner, producers have been quite puzzled lately by certain information which has been circulating, which suggests that there will be changes to the system established in 2003 for the dairy sector and specifically as regards the quota system. today, madam commissioner, you have not been very specific, but i think you have made a number of things clear: that you are going to launch a debate, that there will be a transitional period before the abolition of quotas in 2015, from which i deduce that there will be a facing out before 2015 and the definitive abolition of quotas. commissioner, we are talking about a sector of economic activity which needs legal certainty and guarantees in the medium and long term to allow for minimal planning, and any new waves and uncertainties can have, at least in my country, serious social and economic consequences. quotas are a very important asset for farmers. in a region like galicia, where it is necessary to continue the restructuring process, it is essential, in order to bring it to completion, that the current quota system be maintained as planned. otherwise the consequences could be catastrophic, since the abolition of quotas would have a drastic impact on the price of milk and, consequently, on the income of the dairy sector. i therefore ask, madam commissioner, that any transition be made or any other idea be put forward from the year 2015. finally, i would like to emphasize that the policies of the member states must be involved in this whole process and that any restriction on the exchange of quotas in a member state must therefore be regarded as a serious obstacle to the capitalisation, competitiveness and development of the sector, as is unfortunately the case with the national plan proposed by the spanish government.
mr president, commissioner, we all agree that the european countryside and european farmers and herders need certainty. the 2002 brussels agreement provided that certainty, and in return for it, the member states compromised on a reform of the cap that was already a major sacrifice for rural areas, especially those in the 'cohesion countries'. this certainty implied, inter alia, that the milk quota system would remain in force until 2015, giving farmers sufficient time to reorganise their holdings, make them more competitive and, if necessary, to leave the sector. but we want certainty to be maintained and you know that the quota is the only guarantee for the farmer against a bear market. and the quota is also the capital of the farmer, who must be free to pass it on and sell it when he wants to stop production. uncertainty, commissioner, is what devalues the value of the quota. in my region, asturias, 94 000 tonnes have been lost in two years through abandonment. from 30 000 farms in 1996, the number has fallen to only 3 200 in 2006. the young farmers, who we all talk about so much, even the young farmers with high milk quotas and profitable holdings, are leaving the sector. and, furthermore, the government has prohibited transfers of quotas between private individuals. our problem, commissioner, is rural development. you are going to have a health check on the common agricultural policy next year. let's hope you're a doctor and not a coroner. do you think it is appropriate to be able to speak of transitional measures when there is not even sufficient funding for rural development? i remind you that, for example, my country will lose 50% of its rural development funds in the coming years. do you intend to report this situation during your review next year?
mr president, the proposal we are debating today is unacceptable. it is unacceptable because it is disintegrating, atomizing, anti-european, selfish and a huge hypocrisy. from an agrarian point of view, it is a question of cutting direct aid to farmers by 20%, to finance rural development and thus plug holes. holes created because, in the financial perspective, 1% is not enough to finance agricultural policies, and since the member states are unable to put more money in, they have to take it away from those who have been receiving it until now. it also means renationalizing the common agricultural policy: it means ending the only truly european policy, the only policy which has united european producers. and it is not just renationalisation, but, if we follow the spanish government's proposal in the council, it is going even further: not just renationalisation, but regionalisation. that way, everyone can do whatever they want. i think it is part of the disintegrating madness of the spanish socialist president - who, by the way, mr peris, has no one here today to defend him either - because he and all the presidents who have signed these financial perspectives and who accept this modulation have a huge disinterest in the competitiveness of the european agricultural sector and care very little about the impact these measures may have on their economies. for all these reasons, and in defence of european farmers and the sector, we will of course reject this proposal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. madam president, since the chairman of the committee on fisheries, mr morillon, is not present, i simply want to say on behalf of the committee on fisheries that we are in favour of this urgency. we believe that it is necessary, as the commission has asked us to do, to speed up the procedure. the committee on fisheries therefore supports this urgency.
president of the court of auditors. madam president, mr kallas, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am delighted to be able to take part in your debate today in the european parliament's plenary on the court's 29th annual report for the financial year 2005. i have already presented this report to the committee on budgetary control in strasbourg on 23 october and to the economic and financial affairs council in brussels on 7 november. each court's annual report is the culmination of complex and in-depth on-the-spot audits carried out by its auditors at all levels involved in the management of eu funds over the previous 12 months. in accordance with the principles of international auditing standards and as confirmed by external experts, the court's audit evidence is based on the in-depth examination of sample transactions from each budgetary area and on assessments of the functioning of internal control systems for expenditure. only serious formal errors and errors with financial implications, overstatements of expenditure, ineligible beneficiaries and ineligible expenditure shall form the basis for the court's statement of assurance. the court has a strong interest in, and a treaty obligation since its inception, conducting cost-effectiveness studies, the results of which are published in its special reports. in addition, the court's assessments of internal control systems, which are required for the annual declaration of assurance, provide an important basis for these economic assessments. allow me to turn now to the court's main findings of 2005. as regards the areas where significant improvements can be made, the court duly acknowledges that the commission has successfully implemented the changeover from cash to accrual accounting. the court concludes that the consolidated accounts for 2005 are reliable for the eu's general budget, which totals eur 105 billion. however, i have to limit this confirmatory note because the assets were overvalued net and the demarcation procedures were not applied consistently. the court may re-affirm its unconditional approval of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in respect of the eu's revenue, commitments, administrative expenditure and pre-accession strategy, with the exception of sapard. the integrated administration and control system (iacs) which covers 56% of expenditure under the common agricultural policy is also a positive development. as in 2004, the court confirms that invekos, when applied correctly, is successful in preventing irregular agricultural expenditure. in practice, this is the case for the eu-15 with the exception of greece, and although the implementation of invekos is progressing well in the new eu member states, these systems are not yet fully effective. as the court's detailed audit evidence shows, the other areas of expenditure, which represent the bulk of the eu budget in value terms, continue to be marked by material errors as regards the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. in other words, the court cannot again issue a full endorsement, in particular for the agricultural expenditure as a whole, structural measures, internal policies and external policies. this is due to the numerous irregularities detected, such as overdeclarations of expenditure, double counting of costs, ineligible beneficiaries and/or ineligible projects, non-realised expenditure and non-compliance with the objectives of the public procurement rules. these irregularities are due to the inadequacy of the current internal controls on eu expenditure. the ec treaty requires the commission to ensure that internal control systems are in place and function effectively in practice at all levels of the eu administration. the court has not only found evidence of poor controls on payments in the context of shared management in agriculture and structural measures, but also that the commission is not setting a good example in the eu's internal and external policy spending that it directly manages. for example, in the area of research, the commission's checks of declarations of expenditure were significantly reduced in 2005, despite the persisting high error rate and the inherent risk of this type of expenditure. the commission argues that the errors detected and pointed out by the court are of minor importance in that errors and irregularities in the final closure of programmes are detected and corrected in the course of the various corrective mechanisms covering several years. the court's audit work shows that in practice these corrections are insufficient and not targeted at final beneficiaries in all areas. in addition, recovery procedures are not without their shortcomings. for example, in the context of shared management with the member states, the following has been identified: the commission has also been asked to submit a report on the implementation of the budget. the last year of full closure was 1998. in addition, fines imposed by means of conformity decisions for systemic deficiencies are imposed only by the authorities of the member states. since in most cases overpaid amounts are not recovered from the final beneficiaries, the burden falls on the national taxpayers and not on the final beneficiaries who claim excessive costs. as regards structural operations, the accounts for the 1994-99 programmes are still incomplete and, in the court's view, some programmes which have been closed still have a significant error rate. in addition, the commission closed some programmes without financial corrections, despite substantial reservations about the expenditure certified. this is a clear indication of the risk that in practice errors in interim payment applications will not be corrected. i would like to stress that the court of justice naturally welcomes recoveries for the benefit of the eu budget. however, it should be noted that the flat-rate financial corrections are made for weaknesses in the control systems of the member states and therefore do not normally lead to the correction of errors related to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions at the level of the final beneficiaries. the court considers that these shortcomings should be addressed by: there is a need for a logical chain of effective internal controls based on clear and appropriate rules and common principles and standards, taking into account the risk assessment in terms of the type of operations and forms of management. similarly, effective systems of recovery and sanctions should apply in all areas of the eu budget. the european court of auditors, for its part, is seeking to develop more closely, together with the national audit authorities, areas of common interest. for the contact committee of the presidents of the supreme audit institutions to be held in warsaw next month, the court calls for the existing cooperation to be extended to the evaluation of internal control systems in the member states. the european union is facing new challenges with the operational arrangements, the closure and completion of the current expenditure programmes in the field of the structural funds and the launch of the programmes for the period 2007-13 and the forthcoming accession of two new member states. let me conclude by explaining how eu financial management should address these challenges. the commission, together with the member states' authorities, must ensure that effective and reliable internal control systems exist at all levels of the eu administration, which in turn include sufficient audits, are properly carried out, recorded and monitored, and are based on simplified rules for eu expenditure. the aim of all of us should be a european union which manages its budget efficiently for the benefit of the citizens of the union. thank you for your kind attention.
vice-president of the european commission madam president, mr weber, ladies and gentlemen, i presented my preliminary position on the annual report to the committee on budgetary control on 23 october. the commission is currently actively working on the follow-up and correction of the errors identified. the commission sent a letter to the member states the day after the court's report was published, asking them to comment and explain the errors found in the member state concerned and to correct them. we therefore take full and timely account of the court's findings. but, like you, the commission has reflected on the political implications of the report since it was published. it is clear that this report is not yet a general positive affirmative statement. as president weber said, the court of auditors will make a positive declaration on the 'legality and regularity' of the expenditure, the commitments, the pre-accession strategy, the administrative expenditure and the expenditure of the common agricultural policy which form part of the single administrative and control system. however, the court does not give a positive affirmative opinion on other areas, such as research programmes and the structural funds. the main reason for this is that the court has found too many errors in the selection of transactions in these areas. as president weber said, the errors are caused by 'negligence or error, poor knowledge of complex rules and presumably fraud against the eu budget'. i think that the criticisms made by the court of auditors in the context of last year's audit are unfortunately justified in the area of research programmes. the reduction in the number of follow-up audits in this sensitive area by almost half should have been abandoned, but the recovery procedure should be faster and more robust. it is true that we missed many errors that the court of auditors later discovered. i believe that the mistakes made in this area, as in others, are mainly due to a lack of knowledge of complex rules. in fact, i think the commission has done too little and too slowly to simplify and clarify the rules. we will address these issues in the action plan and in the proposals for the new programming period. we can only welcome the court's continued attention and advice to improve the situation. i'd like to address the fraud next. how much fraud is there in the implementation of the eu budget? each suspected case of fraud is thoroughly investigated by olaf, as evidenced by recent cases reported in the press concerning the chernobyl project and the infrastructure and logistics office. but is the entire eu budget a fraud, as some journalists write year after year? let me quote from a report published yesterday by the house of lords on the management and audit of eu funds. the report says that the press coverage often suggests that corruption is widespread in the european institutions. our investigation found nothing to support this view. the commission has estimates based on data from the member states for the two areas with the highest expenditure: agriculture and regional aid. according to these estimates, 13 to 15% of the reported irregularities, i.e. 0,05% of agricultural expenditure and 0,53% of structural and cohesion fund expenditure, are suspected of fraud. last year, the commission deducted eur 90 million in claims for non-performing loans, which is about 0.09% of the budget. so the fraud rate is negligible. which doesn't mean we shouldn't seriously fight every single case. this appears to be confirmed by the court's audit results for 2005. of all the information, all the audits and some nine hundred transactions in the sample examined by the court in 2005, only four gave rise to suspicions of fraud or serious irregularities that were reported to the anti-fraud office. however, olaf's analysis did not confirm fraud in any of the cases reported. however, the court has again provided useful data which olaf can use in its ongoing work. mr president, madam president, now that comments have been made on our shortcomings, the need for simplification and the level of fraud, i expect the discharge authority to also want to assess the impact of the errors found on the 'quality/price' ratio. the court's report (page 138) shows that the court audited 95 projects financed by the structural funds and found significant errors in 60 of them. does this mean that two thirds of the structural funds have been lost or wasted? does this mean that the objectives of these projects have not been achieved? obviously, it's not. some pioneering research may not have had all the necessary paperwork done, although similarly there may be projects which have been carried out with exemplary due diligence and all the paperwork done, but whose objectives have not been achieved. unfortunately, the report does not provide information on the actual impact of community funding. the question therefore arises: what conclusions can parliament and the citizens of the member states draw from the court's overview of the structural policy failures? the court of auditors is accustomed to claiming that it is only a messenger and that, under the treaty, it must make a declaration of assurance each year on the whole budget. the court does this by sampling transactions and by carrying out other audits. he's checking to see if the rules are being followed. the court shall carry out this work in a professional manner and in accordance with the availability of human resources. but who is to judge how errors affect the achievement of policy objectives? what should be the basis for the european parliament's assessment? you are the budgetary authority, together with the council, which has the final say on the allocation of funds. the court's reports should provide you with a basis for assessing the effectiveness of the implementation of the budgets approved so far. in this context, i think that the court should be called upon to assess the material impact of the errors. we know that the court has the necessary competence. in the special reports, he provides estimates of the 'price-quality ratio', which we find very useful. why not include such an analysis in the annual report? the commission considers sound financial management to be the achievement of policy objectives in an efficient and cost-effective manner. the commission considers that the scheme will be implemented over a period of several years, ensuring that the costs of the control scheme are balanced against the revenue generated by it. the commission is well aware that few university professors applying for funding for research programmes have the skills of an accountant and may therefore make mistakes in their applications. but should research funding be stopped because of this? no, not at all. we'll reduce the margin of error, but we'll deal with the rest. there is probably one option missing between a negative and a positive affirmative. the court of auditors is required by the treaty to assess the soundness of financial management (article 248 (2) of the ec treaty). could it also assess whether the commission has taken the necessary measures to ensure a good price-quality ratio in a given year? this would not make the commission's task any easier, but it would give all of us the right perspective for our actions. perhaps you think it's too radical? perhaps this is too radical, but the report published by the house of lords yesterday is even more radical. the report of the court of auditors states that 'there is a need to improve the methods of submitting the confirmatory declaration' and suggests, inter alia, that the court 'must clearly distinguish between irregularity and fraud by publishing separately the details of fraudulent transactions and administrative errors' and that 'the confirmatory declaration should, in particular, provide a detailed summary of financial management for each category of expenditure and member state' and list 'member states which mismanage european funds'. the commission will study this interesting report carefully. let me also touch on the issue of recall. in this year's confirmatory statement, the court seems to have expressed doubts as to whether the amounts to be recovered should be taken into account in the confirmatory statement. the court of auditors states that the recovery of the amounts does not invalidate the act and does not protect the beneficiaries from committing errors. the commission considers that this view does not accurately reflect the reality. each year, the commission recovers large sums from the member states, which in turn recover them from the beneficiaries. this system shall contribute to the protection of the financial interests of the union. it has a preventive effect by stimulating member states to improve their administrative and control systems and to prevent, detect and recover from beneficiaries irregular payments. we, or rather the member states, should have earned the credit for the recovery. recovery should also be taken into account in the statement of assurance. madam chairman, i'll move on to the more joyous topic. the commission has established working relations with the inspection authorities of several member states. the idea of a joint audit of eu funds has been well received by them. i am very encouraged by the statement by president weber that the court of auditors intends to start joint audits with the national audit authorities, starting with the structural funds and the financial corrections in the member states. in fact, we would be better able to persuade the member states to take more responsibility for spending the eu budget if the court of auditors took account of and used national audit findings in its work. finally, a note on the welcome message contained in the court's report. president weber has indicated that 'the commission has implemented the new accounting system with considerable speed and is now able to obtain from it the necessary additional information which is much more complete than the information provided under the former cash-based system'. we are proud of this achievement. in conclusion, the affirmative is once again negative. the commission regrets that. we will correct the errors made and take measures to address the deficiencies in the system in accordance with the action plan for the establishment of a single internal control framework. the commission acknowledges that there is still a lot of work to be done, but points out that every year there is significant progress and that eu funds are generally managed in a credible manner. the situation is under control, but more needs to be done to simplify complex rules. i and my colleagues look forward to more in-depth sectoral discussions at future budget implementation hearings. finally, the commission would like to stress once again that there is no link between the list of errors contained in the court's report and the discharge procedure. the commission would also welcome the inclusion of performance, i.e. the 'price/quality ratio', in the audit. we believe that this would help the discharge authority in its important task. thank you for your attention!
i am glad that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's budget for the financial year. as the agriculture commissioner, mrs fischer boel, said yesterday, we are really going to have a real medical check on the financial health of the union. i do not intend to demand more responsibility than is necessary for the powers of each institution. the court of auditors carries out its role, often with little cooperation from the member states and their national audit institutions. i hope that mr weber will achieve in warsaw what we have not been able to achieve over the years. the european commission, despite its shortcomings, is doing an extraordinary job, one that is extremely difficult because of the scarcity of resources and the sheer volume of work. we do not want this report to become a source of scandal, but a real instrument for improving public accounts. the council and the member states also have their own responsibilities, since it is difficult to go further in financial control of the budget and in the implementation of expenditure under the present institutional architecture. the commission has already said that 80% of the money is spent in the member states and we have not even got the finance ministers to sign off on the reliability of the expenditure in the member states themselves. so there is a lot to be done. the rapporteur, among other things, intends to use the cost-benefit analysis, the 'value for money', as a basis for the analysis. the guiding principle of our report will be sound financial management. we will attach great importance to management, both shared and direct and decentralised, and to the recovery of funds. finally, mr president, we would like to see a new approach to the declaration of trust, but we will be talking about that over the next few months.
madam president, we have made progress on many issues, and this is what the report by the court of auditors says, and i thank it for that. but we have not made any progress in one area: the member states. we are a group of 25 and you can't give a global rating. in the 300 pages of your report you can read references to greece, but you have never said which member states are mainly responsible for our not crossing the threshold or - if you do not want to be just a hangman - which member states are doing well or are improving a lot. other institutions do this: the european central bank refers to the member states by name. you are not a board of diplomats defending national interests. you must point out in your press releases, among other things, which states are doing well and which are not. we are not even represented by the finnish presidency here, but following the report, which we deeply respect, from the house of lords, on behalf of the group i am coordinating, the european people's party, i am going to ask for an own-initiative report to study the methodology of the court of auditors. i cannot forget how one of your members, the belgian member, mr pinxten, took office without relinquishing any economic or political responsibility. finally, when he was threatened with being taken to court, he had to leave through the back door. that is a shame which unfortunately does not feature on the table of honour of the court which you so graciously preside over. i want to say something to vice president kallas. in your speech to the committee on budgetary control on 23 december you said that 2 100 million had been recovered. you criticised the auditor harshly: 'i don't know if that is the best thing you could have done', but i would like you to specify, if possible, with which policies, programmes and member states the recovered 2 100 million are linked.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs sornosa martínez, for her work on this proposal. it is a very important directive. it is part of the community's actions on mercury, the community strategy on mercury was recently debated here in parliament. it's about working together to prevent more mercury from being released into the environment. just so we're clear, we're not talking about any poison here, we're talking about a particularly dangerous one. mercury and its compounds are highly toxic to human health and the environment. the directive we are debating today is aimed at preventing new measuring instruments containing mercury from being placed on the market. we would be able to achieve that 30 tonnes of mercury per year would no longer be able to enter the environment. and 30 tons of mercury is a lot of health hazard! the proposed directive will ban the placing on the market of mercury-containing thermometers altogether, because there are already equally good alternatives. it will also prevent the sale to the general public of all other measuring instruments containing mercury. the proposals were based on a risk assessment and a detailed impact assessment developed for the mercury strategy, followed by consultation with industry and other stakeholders. the directive not only protects human health and the environment but will also serve to preserve and strengthen the internal market, since harmonised rules on the placing on the market of measuring instruments containing mercury apply throughout the community. there are now a number of amendments from your group aimed at derogations. i agree with you that it should indeed be allowed that antique measuring instruments may continue to be marketed. antique measuring instruments are those which are at least 50 years old. antique instruments are largely collector's items, they are handled very carefully because of their value, they are traded in very limited quantities, and the risk of such pieces ending up in the garbage is low. i can also support a temporary derogation for new mercury barometers manufactured by a few small specialist companies. a transitional period of two years will allow these companies to adapt their production to the new regime without creating a disproportionate risk to the environment and health. two years is more than enough. i must make it clear that there is no reason to use mercury in these devices produced by these manufacturers. you can get the same result without mercury, and maybe even better. there is no argument that newly manufactured devices must contain this type of mercury. it is not that a new technology has yet to be developed; the alternatives are already there. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. i am very strict on this point, two years of adjustment period should really be sufficient. the situation is somewhat different with regard to health measurement instruments. it has been proposed here in parliament that blood pressure monitors should be exempted from the restrictions, subject to further review. i think that's the way it should be. blood pressure monitors are still needed in certain medical applications. they are indispensable in certain medical cases where the utmost accuracy of measurement is required. we have been working very hard on this question. medical professionals consider blood pressure monitors of this type to be indispensable, especially in certain life-threatening situations. this means that we should consider extending the rules to the health sector when safe alternatives have been developed for these devices with the same reliability. so we are not at the end of this process, but there is still work to be done here. finally, i would like to note that the negotiating process was characterised by very close cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission. the commission can therefore also agree to all the compromise amendments - that is, paragraphs 12 to 18 - proposed by your rapporteur. i very much hope that we can get this directive adopted at first reading.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all share the view in this house that the demand for mercury in the manufacture of products must be reduced and its replacement accelerated. it is appropriate to introduce restrictions on the marketing of measuring and monitoring equipment intended for use by private individuals containing mercury at community level, with some exceptions in the health sector. we must prevent considerable amounts of mercury from entering the waste stream. in this way we will contribute to ensuring a higher level of protection of the environment and human health and to the preservation of the internal market, in accordance with article 95 of the treaty. mercury and its compounds are extremely toxic to humans, ecosystems and nature. mercury pollution, which began as a diffuse local problem, is now recognized as a serious, chronic, global problem. as regards the possibility of a total ban on the use of mercury in all measuring devices, which is the subject of this proposal, it should be noted that the experts consulted by the commission came to the conclusion that hospitals need very precise devices to treat potentially life-threatening conditions such as hypertension, arrhythmia and preeclampsia. mercury sphygmomanometers ensure the precision and reliability necessary to preserve patient safety, and so, for the time being, in this proposal, we advocate exempting these instruments from the ban until there are full guarantees in the operation of possible alternative instruments. i would also like to stress to the commission the need to take short-term measures to ensure that all mercury-containing products currently in circulation are separately collected and safely treated, otherwise this directive would lose its practical effect. dumping or improper disposal causes mercury residues to seep into wastewater and disperse into the environment. the presence of mercury in food products is thus observed, with particular risk to the aquatic food chain, making fish and shellfish consumers particularly vulnerable. you have said it, commissioner: 30 tonnes can be treated inadequately in landfills. i also ask the commission to take measures to raise public awareness by organising information campaigns on the health risks of exposure to mercury and the environmental problems that this substance can cause, as i fear that citizens are still not sufficiently informed about its toxicity. as regards the amendments tabled, i was hoping, as were most of the political groups, that there would be agreement, as there has been with the council and the commission, on the barometers. the agreement we have reached concerns the exemption from the obligations of this directive for scientific instruments containing mercury, such as barometers which are more than 50 years old and are intended for sale or trade on the international antiquities market. as regards the production of mercury from new conventional barometers, we proposed an agreement: that there should be a transitional period for manufacturers to adapt to the new standards. unfortunately, not all the political groups have signed it, although i believe that we will have a sufficient majority in this house to approve it. finally, i hope that parliament will endorse the agreement with the council at first reading, so that it can be implemented as soon as possible and thus reduce industrial demand for mercury and speed up its replacement by other materials which are not harmful to human health and the environment. in short, commissioner, i agree with what you have said. i thank the commission for its work and for the possibility of reaching agreement at first reading. i also thank the council and the political groups who support this proposal.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, the white paper on financial services policy 2005-2010 sets out a roadmap for opening up europe’s fragmented retail financial services markets. one of the core elements of this strategy is our ongoing initiative on mortgage credit. the challenges of integrating european mortgage markets should not be underestimated. differences in product characteristics, distribution systems, consumer behaviour and many other economic, structural and indeed social factors all have a significant impact on the sector. we should not forget that for most european consumers, taking out a mortgage is perhaps the most significant financial decision in their lives. given the economic and social significance of mortgage lending, the commission has adopted an open and consultative approach. deliberations began in 2003 with the establishment of a forum group on mortgage credit, and a green paper was published in july 2005. a cost-benefit study was published in august 2005 to provide insight into the potential benefits of initiatives in the field of mortgage credit. the public consultation that followed the publication of the green paper confirmed that the commission was on the right track. at the same time, however, it identified areas where further analysis was required, for example on mortgage funding, before the commission could decide on the appropriate policy responses. your report comes at an important moment in our deliberations. the consultation phase is drawing to a close and we are fast approaching a time when the commission must decide how to proceed. i wish to thank the rapporteurs for their hard work in preparing what i believe is a carefully thought-through and pragmatic report. i would like to focus on some aspects of the report. i am pleased to read that you also believe that there are benefits to be obtained from integration. this position is consistent with our own analysis and the feedback that we have received in the green paper consultation. as the responses to the green paper consultation illustrate, there is a lot of debate on what the right means to achieve these benefits are. you propose a pragmatic and nuanced approach calling for focused measures accompanied by comprehensive impact assessments. as you know, i have a strong personal commitment to better regulation with a full impact assessment identifying the problems and setting out objectives and options. we in the commission will be looking at the full range of tools at our disposal, not just legislative ones, in finding the most appropriate policy response to each issue addressed in the green paper. i welcome the fact that the report underlines the benefits from enhancing product diversity and asks the commission to ensure that actions do not hamper innovation and competition. a wide range of products is currently available to borrowers in the european union. however, in no single country can consumers have access to a complete range of products. in some markets, certain groups of borrowers – for example, the self-employed, or borrowers with low or incomplete credit profiles – find it difficult to obtain mortgages or are even excluded. barriers also exist that limit mortgage lenders’ incentives to operate cross-border, thus preventing new and innovative products and processes from being introduced in other markets across europe. in this respect i think our goals fully concur with those set out in the report. mortgage credit covers many contexts and technical issues ranging from consumer protection, through mortgage funding, to property valuation and land registration, to name but a few of the issues to be addressed. i look forward to continuing our very fruitful dialogue with parliament on how best to address the policy challenges emerging from this in the interests of assisting the development of a genuine single market for mortgage credit that creates new opportunities for lenders and borrowers alike, and that ensures appropriate protection for what remains for the vast majority of europeans the most important financial decision the make in their lives.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the consumer in respect of the placing on the market of consumer goods. mr president, i think the commission has taken the right approach to mortgage credit because, as the commissioner has said, it is probably the most important commitment that european citizens make in their lifetime: credit to buy their own home. it is therefore necessary to remember that we are moving towards a single market and that in that single market it does not make much sense to have 27 different national laws or 27 different mortgage systems. it is also a matter of the most essential elements of the legal system of each state. therefore, achieving results will not be immediate or easy; it will take some time. in any event, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection would like to stress the importance of making progress in the legislative area. it is not possible, of course, to adopt a complete european union regulation on mortgages, but some progress can be made, for example, in the field of information, maximum authorized rates, repayment of mortgages at a given time, so that when a citizen moves from one country of the european union to another, he does not find himself in a completely different legal environment from the one in which he is accustomed to living.
member of the commission. mr president, while the commission regrets the outcome of the vote, it has taken good note of the position expressed by the majority of members. in accordance with the framework agreement between parliament and the commission, the issue will be raised in the college of commissioners so that the commission’s position can be considered carefully in the light of these circumstances. the commission will inform parliament, in due course and in an appropriate manner, of the outcome of those deliberations.
mr president of the republic of georgia, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the european parliament, i warmly welcome you. three years ago, after parliamentary elections were annulled by the then regime, the 'roses revolution' took place in your country and your name, mr saakashvili, will go down in history as associated with that revolution. with you in charge, your countrymen demanded a fair election and an end to the corruption and bad government that plagued your country. (applause) although the previous regime refused to accept their demands, it was overthrown without the slightest bloodshed. "people power" prevailed and the people of georgia had the opportunity to elect you as their new president by voting for you in a massive way. mr president, the european parliament has supported the democratic change in your country. we sent an election observation mission and our committee on foreign affairs had the pleasure of receiving your visit shortly after you took office as president, not here in strasbourg but at our headquarters in brussels. the 'rose revolution' has given new life to hopes for real, undirected democracy in territories further east of the baltic and central and eastern europe. a year later, the orange revolution took place in ukraine. the future seemed full of promise then, but today we see that many problems and obstacles have also appeared on a road that is certainly not a path of roses. you have achieved a great deal in the years since then, but the conflicts in the breakaway regions of south ossetia and abkhazia have also intensified. it is clear that russia is now exerting great pressure on your country - i can tell you that at dinner with president putin there was a lot of talk about your country - and now you have a great opportunity, by addressing the european parliament, to explain what the situation is so that the representatives of the peoples of europe can know directly, through you, the difficult circumstances your country is going through and the problems involved in energy dependence on your great neighbour. the european parliament and the european union as a whole fully support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of your country; there is no doubt about that. but we have also said that the conflicts in south ossetia and abkhazia must be resolved at the negotiating table, and exclusively by peaceful means. there's no military solution to that problem either. in a resolution we adopted last month here in strasbourg, we called on russia to put an end to all acts of repression and harassment against persons of georgian origin living in russia and to revoke all measures recently taken against their country, including the suspension of all transport links and postal services. but we also call for restraint in the verbal manifestations of all parties which may unnecessarily escalate the tension. we believe that the council and the commission must find a way to help your country to overcome and compensate for the economic and social repercussions of the russian measures imposed against you. mr president, we wish to express the european parliament's support for the adoption by the eu-georgia cooperation council of the action plan on the european neighbourhood policy, which took place today in brussels. we welcome you back and i believe that your presence here gives us an opportunity to overcome, through dialogue, the problems that affect your country and affect us all. mr president, you have the floor. (applause) i would like to thank
president of georgia . thank you very much, mr president, for these words and for your invitation, which is very important for my country. distinguished members of parliament, i wish to thank you for this kind invitation today. that we meet in strasbourg is especially meaningful to me. it was here as a young student, coming fresh from the soviet union, that i first discovered europe in all its diversity and richness. it was here that i first learned about human rights and the solemn obligation of the state to protect, rather than persecute. what a revelation! and it was here that i dared to dream that one day what i studied could be applied to my own country and that i could plant those seeds which only now have finally blossomed. at the time, it was a radical and maybe even rather dangerous dream, but it is one that i have never forgotten. strasbourg is also important for me for another reason. it is the place where i met my wife sandra at a human rights course. (applause) i called my mother from the street phone in the orangerie across from the council of europe building where i was on an internship at the time to tell her that i had met a beautiful dutch girl. well, they are now sitting next to each other up there in the gallery. (applause) i am very proud that our multinational family is represented here today with three generations, including my grandmother. i want to say thank you, therefore, and thank you to this city and its institutions for giving me both knowledge and love, two priceless assets that i will never part with. let me begin my remarks with a few words in georgian. we do not want to be part of a debate as to whether we are part of old or new europe, because i believe we are the oldest europe, so we are observing from the side. (the president spoke georgian. this is a translation) on behalf of my country, i wish to express my gratitude to all of you to the european union, and to you the parliamentarians of europe in particular for your existence and your activism. europe has always been home to many diverse nations, small and large alike. georgians have been europeans since the time prometheus was chained to our mountains and the argonauts came to our country in search of the golden fleece. when debates take place about the identity of europe, if georgians are european we do not participate in them. we are an ancient european nation. georgians are not only europeans, but we are enthusiastic europeans and europe was always the first choice to turn to for help and moral support through all the troubled periods. that which brings us together is a common and unbreakable bond, one based on culture, on our shared history and on a common set of values that has at its heart the celebration of peace and the establishment of fair and prosperous societies. this is the substance of what is often called the european project. my nation is proud to be part of that just project and to contribute to its stability, strength and permanence. for in georgia please know that you have a strong and reliable partner now and in the future, for ours is a common destiny. (the president switched back to english) i just want to ask whether you have ever considered for a moment what the post-soviet world would be like had there not been a european union. at times like this, i am reminded of the vision and leadership that led to a united europe, expressed so eloquently in 1950 by robert schuman. i wonder what schuman would say today when presented with europe's map and its current challenges? from the rubble of war, you have created a beacon of justice, peace and prosperity. in that respect, your actions have provided the answer, as schuman's vision continues to endure. in particular, your readiness to welcome new members from the former soviet region has significantly strengthened peace and democracy in europe. the success of these new member states encourages countries like mine to move forward, for we have benefited and will continue to benefit from their experience and expertise, and your vision and prudence. perhaps the best way in which i can express that gratitude is to state that we wish to emulate you! but here let me be very clear: i do not want to alarm you by requesting outright that georgia be admitted to the european union. membership is a distant goal, and it is not on our immediate agenda. rather, it is the principles on which europe is built that provide the cornerstones for our development. here i see cause for optimism, based on enhancing our partnership. the georgia we are creating is built squarely on the rule of law, human rights, democracy and peace. our european path has been chosen by the georgian people themselves. for them and for me, it is indeed the embodiment of our country's enduring european identity. it is the only way forward. i am in strasbourg at a symbolic moment, because we will soon be celebrating the third anniversary of our rose revolution. as many of you know, three years ago georgia was basically a failed state. imagine a country where daily survival was a mighty struggle for all but the privileged few, where insecurity reigned and disorder prevailed, and where the security of the country was subsumed in the interests of larger neighbors. georgia was a country with rampant corruption and endemic injustice, and certainly there was no rule of law. today, three years on, georgia has changed beyond recognition. we are reforming our institutions and economy to bring greater prosperity and stability to our people and our region. had the changes of the last few years not been made, today we would be a totally failed state not only in our region but also in the european neighbourhood. today, however, i believe georgia can rise to the challenge of being a model european neighbour and that is the message i should like to share with you this afternoon. i make this claim before you because for the past three years we have consistently pursued four straightforward goals: the restoration of democracy and rule of law, the eradication of corruption, the creation of revenue for our citizens and the protection of our territorial integrity. all, as you can imagine, are interrelated and all have as their first assumption the strengthening of institutions and public accountability. for this vision to succeed, in essence, the poetry of democracy must be supported by the prose of the rule of law. in substance, this means enacting reforms based on the understanding that justice should reign in the country. when i say justice, i mean it in the european sense: democracy must be served by an infrastructure of values and institutions that give protection and opportunity to every citizen. the rule of law must prevail in a transparent manner that is equal to all. this is, of course, easy to say but harder to do, and i welcome the european union's support in realizing this vision. today in georgia we have completely reformed our police forces. as a result, georgian drivers no longer worry about being arbitrarily stopped by traffic police demanding bribes. georgian business owners do not fear random harassment. three or four years ago a gallup poll in georgia showed that the rate of confidence in the police was less than 5%. basically, the police force was the most hated institution in the country, but now, the rate of confidence is in the upper seventies. it is one of the most trusted institutions in the country and certainly more trusted than in any other countries in the post-soviet region. this is a big change. we have made an irreversible commitment to reforming our judicial system and, through strong collaboration with european institutions, we created and are now funding a comprehensive multi-year programme. i wish to comment on some highlights. today we are strengthening both the independence and professionalism of our judges and legal professionals, while at the same time reducing the powers of the president. with new constitutional changes, the president will no longer be able to appoint judges directly. i hope these changes will be adopted this december. we are reforming our legal education system and strengthening the protection of human rights by further educating our law enforcement officials. this is a matter of national interest. we are building new prisons that meet the standards of human rights monitors and streamlining legal procedures to ensure due process in due time. this is a matter of enforcing fundamental rights. we will continue to overhaul our system of justice, because without it our reforms will lack foundation. today i am pleased to state that our parliament exercises an unprecedented level of oversight. as head of the executive, i can attest to the fact that budgets are scrutinised, oversight is vigorous and careful consideration is given to parliament in the decisions of the executive. georgia also enjoys one of the most liberal environments for the free press and a vibrant ngo community. our media freedom legislation is one of the most if not the most liberal. unfortunately for politicians, under georgian law the media cannot be sued under any circumstances. that's good, because it offers more opportunities. perhaps one of my biggest regrets to date, however, is the fact that georgia still does not have an opposition that is sufficiently robust to challenge the government. i do not say this lightly. it is not a good thing, but nothing would be more dangerous to a fledgling democracy than to artificially manufacture an opposition. it is bad for an aspiring government not to have a strong opposition which will be more responsible and more competent and which will test the government. i'm sure that this kind of opposition will be created as society develops. perhaps one day but i hope not that soon it will prevail in open and fair elections. we have certainly established a political and legal environment in which that can happen. now it is up to opposition groups to take the next step. our path of transformation began with a very simple idea: that every citizen must feel secure. to achieve that, corruption had to be stamped out and that was our major goal. in order to provide a social safety net, we have been aggressive and imaginative in our economic reforms. georgia today is an attractive target for investment. for a country with relatively few natural resources, we are left to work with our own ingenuity and discipline. that's why we have established the lowest tax rates in europe, some of the most flexible labour laws and some of the simplest trade, customs and regulatory procedures. liberal reforms have proven to be the best tool to fight corruption, while guaranteeing the freedom of business and protection of property rights. it has also proven the best way to generate revenue, so that we can build more roads, schools and hospitals. today, i am proud of the fact that two years ago not a single school in georgia had access to the internet, but now 80% of our schools have computers and internet access, and next year the process will be finished. we are building new schools comparable to the best schools in the netherlands, germany or the czech republic. this year we built 340. that's a lot for a small country. more roads have been built this year alone than since independence in 1991. at its annual meeting in singapore this year, the world bank ranked georgia the most successful reformed country in the world and one of the best places in the world to do business. in two years we have switched from being one of the worst to one of the best places in the world to do business. georgian economic growth this year will be strong, since, according to the world bank, we are also the top-performing country among transitional economies in eurasia in fighting corruption. in fact, the ebrd ranks us among the three most non-corrupt nations in europe. maybe other figures will say more about our achievements. the year 2004, the first year after our rose revolution, was the first time since 1991 that we had a positive immigration and birth rate. last year, in a country of just under five million people, almost 100 000 more georgian citizens came back to georgia than left. they were in fact voting with their feet. it is an amazing story. so i don't think europe should be afraid to open up to these areas, because georgians are not going to flee to europe overnight they are coming back. (applause) i would like to thank you. an amazing symbol of this is the main central hospital in tbilisi. it stopped being a hospital and was occupied by internally displaced persons from the war in abkhazia. last year a large team of georgian high-level professionals came from the united states, spain, germany and russia. they re-established the hospital. we helped them and carried out repairs. we provided the idps with assistance to leave and now it is one of the best hospitals in the world. some europeans said that there is only one other hospital of its kind in europe. this is the symbol: georgians like nina gedevanovna ananiashvili, who was a top ballet dancer at the bolshoi, are coming back and trying to recreate our country. she left a very lucrative career with the bolshoi to come back and recreate our ballet group from scratch. it is now a very powerful group, perhaps one of the best in our part of the world, and it will soon be touring worldwide. our goal now is to focus on steady job creation. with my economic advisor mr marklar, former prime minister of estonia, who was one of the architects of the estonian economic miracle, we have established very successful on-the-job training programmes. our reforms in that sector will only be complete when every georgian feels that he or she has a real opportunity for employment. georgia is a country of tremendous warmth, hospitality and beauty. in fact i was just showing president borrell an album of georgian sites. it is a country that european travellers have enjoyed in the past and are now rediscovering. we are, in fact, europe's best kept secret from that point of view. i would like to share with you a brief quote from the writings of sir oliver wardrop, who in 1888 wrote a book entitled the kingdom of georgia. he wrote: there is no reason why georgia should not become a popular resort. it is not so far away as people think. it has the great advantage of being almost unknown to tourists, there is none of the impudent extortion which ruffles our tempers nearer home and it is, after all, cheaper than scotland. please, those of you from scotland, do not be angry with me. i am only quoting. but in fact it is true! (laughter) reviewing the combined effect of our reforms, i believe it is fair to state that these steps have allowed us to move closer to europe institutionally and culturally. you have provided the framework for further growth through the neighbourhood policy. today we will be signing the action plan that translates many of our mutual priorities into detailed results. but in the spirit and the substance of that effort we must continue to build, for i want my country to work with europe so that europe knows it has an utterly reliable partner and friend in georgia. for some, however, our strategy has proven an irritant, and it seems georgia's reform path means we are departing from former and, in their eyes, still applicable spheres of influence. i believe, as you rightly said in your landmark declarations two weeks ago on georgia, that the time of "spheres of influence" is over. (applause) i would like to thank you for that declaration and for the very appropriate and specific language it contained. each nation must have the chance to freely decide how and with whom it wants to build their future. we base our strategy on being a secure and reliable partner, not a tame and weak satellite. we are a nation with a long history of independence. that independence was interrupted 200 years ago with the violent expansion of the russian empire. for three brief years between 1918 and 1921 we enjoyed another moment of independence. that again was taken away from us. what were the circumstances? in 1921 the bolshevik army, claiming to protect a minority population in one of our regions, entered georgia and reconquered it. during that period, more than 500,000 georgians perished in the gulags, including several members of my own family. it was too expensive a price to pay and we are not willing to pay it again. we will not allow that history to be repeated, whatever it takes. after all, we are living in 2006, not 1938 or 1939, 1956 or 1968. at what point are small countries asked to sacrifice their aspirations for liberty? how often can we ask the smaller party to tone down its voice and resist reacting to provocation? let us hope that we will never be asked to succumb and say that justice lies with size, numbers and power in this age, that might makes right and not vice versa. let us hope that never again, when our or any other european nation is threatened, will the spectre of that famous reference by one statesman in the 1930s to "quarrels in a far-away country between people of whom we know nothing" be seen as an adequate response. thankfully, i hope that policy has been left permanently in the past. i hope one day that georgians, as well as proud representatives of that then far-away country the czech republic, will be equals in the european family. (applause) i would like to thank you. today, because we have chosen to move as close as possible to europe and to align ourselves with euro-atlantic institutions, georgia is punished. because we are a democracy, the pressures we are under have only resulted in further consolidation of our society. people who exercise pressure do not understand: you do not pressure democracies, because you get exactly the opposite result from that you want to achieve. that has become increasingly challenging because, as you know, russia has closed its market to georgian goods. our prized georgian wines and mineral water major sources of revenue are now banned from the russian market. the situation has worsened in the last few months as russia unilaterally introduced a complete ban on transport and postal links with georgia. just a few days ago gazprom announced a non-commercial more than doubling of the price georgia must pay for gas. altogether, in plain language, the sum of those measures can be called an economic blockade. i do not wish to use this opportunity to further elevate tensions between georgia and russia, or to see this afternoon as a chance to create anti-russian feeling in the heart of europe. we have enough tensions and enough mudslinging. such rhetoric would serve no constructive purpose. rather, it is now time for diplomacy, discussion, the constructive identification of areas of mutual interest and mutual responsibility. (applause) on behalf of my government and my people, i stand ready to pursue that approach, for it is the only path. let these words once again stand as an open invitation to our colleagues and all interlocutors to return to the path of normality and harmony through dialogue. i believe that the leaders of both countries share the responsibility for making sure that, under our leadership, relations between the two countries do not deteriorate beyond repair. let us move forward with haste and good intentions. like all of you, the people of georgia are not and never will be anti-russian. please allow me to make reference to another great european statesman, konrad adenuaer, who, in his memoirs had this to say about his situation then: we were a small and very exposed country. by our own strength we could achieve nothing. we must not be a no-man's land between east and west, for then we would have friends nowhere and a very dangerous neighbour in the east. geography is a little different today, but i could apply some of those words to my country as well. chancellor adenuaer's words still resonate today. our european aspiration is simply to be allowed to develop according to our own free choices, in harmony with all our neighbours, as many of you did decades ago. in that respect, i believe that current measures are temporary and that through patience and level-headedness, through dialogue and mutual respect, they will be lifted and our relations will and must normalize. that is a desire for which i have the full support of my people. however, if anything today gives me pause in our relations with russia, it is the very issue that was raised so poignantly by the eu in lahti and luxembourg some weeks ago. quite simply, it is the issue of justice. here i would like to make reference to the great russian author alexander solzhenitsyn, whose then forbidden books i read with great passion as a teenager. he said: "justice is conscience, not a personal conscience but the conscience of the whole of humanity. those who clearly recognize the voice of their own conscience usually recognize the voice of justice. i believe that your solidarity during this difficult period most clearly reflects the very same sense of justice. for when children with georgian names are expelled from schools, all our children are at risk. when famous artists, writers, actors, sportsmen are hounded and silenced, we are all silenced. when thousands of citizens are forcibly deported from their homes, taken off the streets in handcuffs, we are all deported. i and the people of georgia are grateful for your expression of support for our country. when we feared isolation, europe raised the banner of our values. indeed, this very parliament has raised the voice of morality in europe. we will never forget your solidarity. this is the awakening of fundamental values to which we all aspire. we see these values alive in europe, in your statement. when i went to lithuania after the russian ban on georgian wine, i saw young lithuanian volunteers, including students from the universities of vilnius and kaunas, going around supermarkets, together with their professors, telling shoppers to buy georgian wine. they said that this was freedom wine, that georgians were paying the price for freedom and needed immediate help, and that shoppers should therefore buy that wine out of solidarity. the polish army has decreed that at officers' receptions it will only serve georgian wine, which is something we are very grateful for. we do not need arms from the polish army, as this is a great help in itself. however, the greatest expression of solidarity came from within russia itself. in fact the most powerful voices we heard were from there. i was moved by those russian citizens who spoke out. there are many examples: in many parts of russia ordinary citizens walked the streets bearing yellow stars with the words i am georgian; in moscow, some high school directors threatened to fire any teacher who handed over lists of students with georgian names to the police, at the risk of they themselves being fired on the spot for such acts; in st petersburg, taxi drivers instructed by the city council to refuse lifts to passengers who even looked georgian, and to refuse to take passengers to some of the numerous georgian restaurants in the city, refused to obey those orders and threatened to go on strike if pushed. the acts of individuals can make a great difference. i was very touched by the words of the famous russian actress, inna churikova, who recently said, is every misfortune the fault of georgians? i don't like it when they try to brainwash me from the television screen. i already see the results: people are against georgians and soon they will turn against armenians and the others. this is shameful. i want to ask people what are you doing? wake up! what are you doing? what courage and determination. i would also like to single out one more individual, the renowned russian actor alexander saladasky, who is today's modern russian hero because he applied for georgian citizenship as a protest. another modern russian, and indeed european, hero is shurshadze, formerly called shurshin, a young student from st petersburg about whom i read in the press. he, together with a number of his fellow students, in defiance of policies of xenophobia and hate, took a very bold step and changed his last name from shurshin to shurshadze, thereby giving it the georgian ending. i think we are all inspired by the examples set by those russian citizens, who have chosen to dissent from a policy that is contrary to what we call european values. i wish to thank all those people today from this place, the european parliament. my purpose in travelling here today is to share with you georgia's european vision. part of that vision means applying 21st century european solutions to modern challenges. we are a small democracy which believes that only through and with europe will our country and region become secure and lasting partners. we are unavoidably beholden to each other. and so, through european approaches to conciliation built on mutual interest, as well as on common values, we can arrive at solutions that will create an all-inclusive society where no one is a loser. to meet those standards, i want to give you some assurances and clarifications. in many circles, georgia is labelled as a provocative state which is trying to restore its territorial integrity through force. i can say to you categorically that this is not true. our intentions are peaceful and exclusively so, because we know what war is, we know what victims look like because they reside among our population today, and we know this cannot be a solution. i myself have dedicated my career and education to the study of human rights, specializing in particular in minority rights. i did my university thesis at the norwegian institute of human rights on minority rights, and more specifically those of the south ossetian and abkhaz peoples. today fewer than 40 000 ethnic abkhaz live in abkhazia and fewer than 20 000 ethnic ossetians in south ossetia. i want you to know these figures because sometimes it seems like we're talking about hundreds of millions. they are a very small number of people, and as such i am especially sensitive to their concerns. i know what they're feeling. on the one hand these small groups have become pawns in a larger game hostages if you like to big politics and a zero-sum vision, with the resurgence of imperial feelings. on the other hand, they have real and genuine concerns which i understand and with which i deeply sympathize. i know their concerns and we are trying to listen to and meet their needs. unfortunately, there are many who continue to suffer from these conflicts. over 300 000 ethnic georgians, as well as jews, greeks, russians and ukrainians, were thrown out of abkhazia. even now we witness the property of those expelled peoples being inhabited by others, and in many cases sold illegally. indeed, just recently one of the most famous georgian-french filmmakers, otar ioseliani, while commenting on the recent campaign, remarked that history seems to be repeating itself, targeting the same victims for a second time. i reproached the world for being silent, just as it was the first time. he had this to say: the russian administration first undertook ethnic cleansing in abkhazia in 1993, where 500 000 people became refugees. those who could not escape by walking through the high mountains were massacred by the hands of mercenaries. they devastated and destroyed the country. and by the way, then everybody was silent too. and now the same people are being picked up on the streets of moscow. on my way to the european parliament this morning i met two people from abkhazia. they told me they had been deported from russia, had paid a bribe to a policeman to be deported to france. it's all happening again. the first time was in 1993 and now it's happening again. so this is the painful legacy we have inherited. this time let us not be silent. today we do not need retribution. the ossetian and abkhaz peoples are our fellow citizens, and here again i am drawn to the timeless words of sir oliver wardrop, who in his book the kingdom of georgia wrote in 1888: "at the very outset it is necessary to remove from the mind of the reader an opinion which is almost universally held in europe and which is, perhaps, the chief cause of that apathy with which politicians look upon the caucasus. it is generally believed, even by some of those who have been in the country, that transcaucasia is inhabited by a vast number of tribes, more or less wild, having nothing in common but the doubtful benefits of russian rule. nothing could be more misleading. students of ethnography may amuse themselves by making elaborate investigations into the origin of the khevsur, the svan, the pshav, the osset (and the abkhaz), it is sufficient for us to know that all these people are, politically at least, georgians, and have fought under the kartvelian kings since the days of william the conqueror. georgia is a multi-ethnic state and i believe that diversity, that tapestry, is one of our greatest strengths. not a weakness, but a strength. i was proud that just a few days ago i opened a new ossetian language school outside south ossetia, the territory we control, because right now we have twice as many ethnic ossetian language schools outside south ossetia as there are inside. we are still a unitary state, but we are certainly open to all kinds of arrangements under which all minorities are accommodated and there is considerable wide autonomy for all of them, such as the ones in south tyrol and in many other places in europe. for these reasons, our task is to extend our hand in peace, justice and reconciliation, to try and solve our problems through negotiation and compromise so that these areas and all the peoples who call them home can share and be blessed by the same prosperity and guarantees of security enjoyed by the rest of georgia today. some suggest that our separatist problems are simply an internal georgian affair. unfortunately this is not so. our disputes have continued because they are based on recidivist territorial claims remnants from the soviet period when an empire collapsed and elites sought to retain their privilege and fiefdoms. generals fought wars for dachas in abkhazia because that was the main private property in soviet times, and they are still clinging to those dachas. in this scenario, the tactic so visible today is to provide support to local proxies and create institutional blockages to bilateral discussions and negotiation. in this scenario it is the people and future generations born into a climate of fear and hate that lose. my message this afternoon is one of reconciliation, of openness and of recognition and protection of minority rights. we cannot have 19th or 20th century solutions. we appeal to your objectivity, interests, and above all sense of fair play when evaluating these challenges. ladies and gentlemen, my proposals are based on the conviction that we must today build european solutions for the 21st century so that the fatal responses of the 20th century will never be resurrected, according to which 'the force is first on the right', according to which small states are inexorably dismembered in order of the larger ones. i hope that you will recognize the conviction and responsibility which are mine in my capacity as a democratic leader. i will never remain silent or inactive in the face of a grave threat to democracy, to the territorial integrity of my country. but in such a difficult situation, georgia must be calm and constructive. that's exactly what we're gonna do. we have to continue our political, social and economic reforms, however difficult they may be, and to take advantage of our successes and progress to send a positive signal. in the 1990s, russia used the economic blockade to prevent the integration of the baltic states into the european union, but ultimately it had no other effect than to accelerate the reorientation of the baltic economies from east to west. it's the same in georgia. i take advantage of this forum today to propose a way forward for the strengthening of cooperation between the european union and georgia, in particular by consolidating our cooperation in the field of neighbourhood policy and by seeking ways of deepening this relationship so that georgia will forever be a model of what the european example can achieve. we are ready. but to achieve this we need your judges, your lawyers, your economists, your experts in security matters. we want a georgia which secures its borders so that europe itself is safer. we can overcome the impact of the current embargo with your commitment, particularly if we are given the possibility of free trade with turkey and of progress along this path with the european union. spare us the need to ask for your help in authorizing us to trade! let us work together to overcome our territorial disputes. i proposed to meet with moscow and the leaders of the separatist regions to find common ground. we have asked european capitals to intervene to facilitate this process. the time has come to build trust! with the osce, the united nations and the european union we have offered the broadest forms of autonomy to south ossetia and abkhazia, and i repeat this proposal to you today. we who, in the past, have all been victims of wars, let us build together today a better future! it is not in the interests of europe, russia and the countries neighbouring europe to allow this problem to continue without establishing a new framework for the emerging challenges. so, if we want to avoid rampant separatism, we must open a new way, a european way which reconciles individual inspiration with self-determination and territorial integrity. it's crucial for our collective security. and together we can and will arrive. it has been my privilege to share with you today my observations and thoughts on georgia's european choice. i believe the path forward one of engagement and mutual benefit is finding greater resonance in the capitals of europe and in european institutions, and this trend should be encouraged. in closing, i return to the words of robert schuman: 'europe will not be made all at once, or according to a single plan. it will be built through concrete achievements which first create a de facto solidarity. i believe that today we are seeing the emergence of that solidarity. it is certainly present in this chamber, and it is in our hearts and in our actions as we move forward together. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
(in georgian) thank you, mr. president, for your words. (applause) as you can see, my georgian is much worse than your spanish. but at any rate, it is a way of expressing the affection with which the european parliament has received you. the european parliament is a friend of georgia, as it has shown in its latest resolution calling for an end to attacks on georgian citizens. it also hopes that its presence and its words in the european parliament will contribute to improving the situation in relations between its country and russia. you can count on us, mr president. i'm not sure.
the next item is the debate on the commission's legislative and work programme for 2007.
madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, commissioners, mr almunia, better and better legislation means better and better budgeting. there is not and will not be any new legislation or new initiatives for the coming year without a full assessment by the community institutions, and in particular the commission, of the financial availability and the way in which the resources are being applied in the way requested by the citizens of the union. in other words, legislative and budgetary priorities must be in line, and the european commission needs to be in line. at the moment, the current commission work programme is no longer consistent with the resolution that the european parliament has voted for the annual political strategy and with the european parliament's first reading for 2007. i would remind you of paragraph 47 of our resolution on the annual political strategy, in which we insist that the european institutions should reach agreement on this legislative programme by december 2006, to coincide with the end of the budgetary procedure for 2007. i would like to conclude by referring to the budgetary principles which the european parliament has expressed for the conditions for the release of the reserve for posts in the european commission in 2007. in these cases the european commission's ally is the parliament and not the council. we are asking, above all, for a commitment to improve the procedure for forwarding the commission's legislative and work programme to the european parliament, which will result in the presentation in february 2007 of a legislative work programme for that year and which will take account of our vote on the budget for next december. you, and particularly the commissioner for budgets, are well aware of the situation and we therefore hope that we can reach an agreement at the conciliation meeting on 21 december.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the president of the commission, who has unkindly absented himself from this debate, has justified the correction of his programme in an astonishing way by quoting an anonymous philosopher, a fellow countryman, who defended the truth. since the infallibility of the commission is not in the treaties, i think it would be more appropriate to quote the old proverb 'to correct is for the wise'. the commission has made two important corrections for next year. firstly, the president of the commission has begun to speak, i would not say with passion, but with a certain enthusiasm, of the european constitution, which i welcome. secondly, the commission has introduced immigration as an urgent matter. but i would like to refer more specifically to a very important issue which is transversal to everything we are talking about and which the president of the commission has not mentioned: the need to renew the doha round of development negotiations. it is a matter of utmost importance, which has a direct bearing on european policy in the face of globalisation, and about which not a word has been said. are we going to follow the line proposed by commissioner mandelson? are we going to give more priority to bilateral rather than multilateral? how are we going to articulate this issue with environmental policy and human rights policy? it seems to me that this is a matter which the commission should take into account and which it has not mentioned today.
madam president, i too miss the council not being here. the council is getting too used to being absent from the debates in this parliament and i think it would be good if we reminded it that it should be here and take note. he was not present this morning at the presentation of the court of auditors' report either. although mr weber, president of the court of auditors, met with the ecofin, the political debate between those of us who represent the citizens takes place in this house. i therefore deplore the absence of the finnish presidency. we have read this morning the report from the house of lords, which, as we would say in spain, puts us in a 'chupa de domine': it says that we are doing it badly, that we are not controlling our expenditure. the court of auditors' report has also been presented once again, a report which has always been negative since i came to this parliament in 1994. for twelve years it has been saying that the commission and the council are trying, but they do not approve. i would like to say that the commission's programme, as mrs grossetête has said, is a political programme and therefore i think that the commission is right to aim high, but does little in terms of controlling expenditure. i would point out to the commission here present - and i thank mr joaquín almunia for his attention - that our vice-president of the committee on budgetary control is not here, and that if we do not spend well, the council will continue to lower the budget and we will be left without community policies. if you, in your work programme, say nothing about the control of europeans' money, what will happen in the end? we're not even gonna hit the 1% threshold anymore. next year we will have 0.9% of the budget and we will be left in europe without community policies. please, put your batteries on, talk about how we want to spend well, better than the member states, that we want to demand that the member states say they agree with the way the expenditure is made. the citizens must know that if money is spent badly, it is not only the commission's fault, but also the member states' and the agents' fault. let us get our hands on the batteries, let us do something not just for transparency, but for spending well.
madam president, i would like to stress the strange fact that there are no concrete legislative proposals for a common policy such as the common fisheries policy. the fact that the commission document takes a very horizontal view of the priorities cannot be used as an excuse for a lack of commitment to a policy which is also going through a crucial moment both at the domestic and international level. fisheries management will be affected - and is already being affected - by a whole range of measures, programmes and policies that respond to the very diverse commitments made by the european union in the framework of the law of the sea, the johannesburg summit, sustainable development, environmental strategies, climate change and biodiversity, among others. in this context, the commission's general attitude to fisheries policy is marked by a surprising lack of legislative activity, a lack of political impetus and a lack of ambition and commitment to these challenges. the legislative activity in the fisheries sector is increasingly concentrated on monitoring the day-to-day routine and minor changes, dealing with the major outstanding issues, when dealt with, on the basis of mere communications without any regulatory consequences, as in the case of discards, or which arrive with a huge delay, as has happened with eco-labelling, or which are at risk of dying in the drawers, as in the proposal on the mediterranean. it seems that, in the face of these challenges, fisheries policy has chosen to keep the level as low as possible and to be carried away by the priorities of other policies, disregarding the fact that fisheries have, as it does, a lot to say. madam president, to clarify a matter which is pending and of the utmost urgency, we call on the commission to address rigorous and coordinated legislative proposals on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing immediately.
member of the commission. to be successful, any action on migration and development must be comprehensive and integrated, and we must use our short and medium-term financial instruments and engage in strengthened political dialogue, in particular with our african partners. the commission's strategy to assist west african countries facing the return of migrants is thus based on three complementary pillars. first of all, it is a question of responding to the urgency of the situation by mobilising the instruments available: i am thinking of the b package and the rapid reaction mechanism. for senegal, for example, the commission will set up an action to support and reintegrate returned migrants for an amount of €9.6 million, which is in fact the remainder of the ninth european development fund, which will be accompanied by other actions financed by the rapid reaction mechanism amounting to about €1.9 million. secondly, we must work on the medium term by taking into account the migration aspects in the implementation of our cooperation instruments. migration issues are an important part of the programming of the 10th european development fund, complementing existing instruments. we have therefore set aside a €25 million migration facility from the remaining funds of the 9th edf envelope b. the types of measures that can be envisaged in the medium term in the field of reintegration are many. establish effective readmission systems between all countries concerned, with respect for the dignity and fundamental rights of persons. focus on training and reception to facilitate the reintegration of irregular migrants returning to their country of origin. financial support for national and regional programmes for the reintegration of migrants. promote information and awareness campaigns for potential migrants on the risks of illegal immigration. i would like to add, however, at the risk of sounding a little out of date, that it is obviously necessary to ensure that any accompanying and reintegration measures do not manifestly favour migrants who return to their country over those who do not leave. otherwise, you will obviously have a knock-on effect and i think it is extremely important to ensure that. finally, in the long term, and we know this, the real answer is a policy of training and employment for young people which the european community supports, inter alia, through its support for economic integration policies, through the negotiation of economic partnership agreements designed to attract investment and increase economic growth, which are the necessary conditions for the creation of attractive jobs. these policies are at the heart of the development priorities and strategy for africa. i must tell you that from this point of view, i am one of those who think that if growth does not necessarily lead to poverty reduction, it is certain that there is no poverty reduction without growth: we must remember this. so i am convinced that the long-term answer is to promote economic partnership agreements, to support the emergence of integrated regional markets which, moreover, can go hand in hand with massive european union aid in upgrading the quality standards of products, in technology transfer, in the construction of regional and sub-regional infrastructure, decentralization infrastructure, etc. in conclusion, madam president, i would like to make a rather personal digression which is worth reflecting on. there are immediate measures which must be taken and which, unfortunately, are often of a security nature, which i can understand because our public opinion is worried, is troubled by the phenomenon, and we have difficulties in managing migration flows. there are also long-term policies, which are development policies. in addition to these immediate measures and policies, i wonder whether it would not be useful to start thinking about what i shall call accompanied migration. it's not about quotas, an old idea, which i'm not very keen on at the moment. i imagine, for example, that we could fund migration agencies in the countries of origin of the flows, agencies which could inform applicants for migration, which could also work with the western european countries where there are job opportunities, without encouraging the brain drain which is another of my concerns. these agencies could, in a sense, play a regulatory role in both directions. there is one thing that i cannot get out of my mind: it is not by closing the borders, it is not by taking coercive measures, it is not by repatriating people en masse that we are going to solve this issue of migrants. we're going to have to live with this for many years to come. immigration is not a new phenomenon. there's always been migration. it is as if europe were suddenly discovering a phenomenon which had not existed before. ever since the world was created, there have been migrations. i'm sorry to have to remind you. i understand that this is difficult to manage, i understand that measures must be taken, sometimes immediately, but i wonder whether we should not, precisely because we are europeans, because we are bearers of european values, begin to think about what i would call a third way, which seems more realistic to me. these migration agencies could very well provide training to enable young people in the countries concerned to become, for example, small self-employed, traders, small craftsmen, because what is most lacking in poor countries is a large middle class. it's missing both economically and politically because political stability is generally greater in countries where you have a large middle class. that, madam president, is the little digression i wished to make. i think it's important to open this discussion a little bit more boldly.
i am grateful to you, commissioner, because i think you are treating the subject of immigration with the importance it deserves and i agree with almost all your points. however, at the moment, especially in the countries of southern europe, there is a massive influx of irregular immigrants, which poses not only an economic and social problem but also a political one. the mass arrival of immigrants to small islands in the mediterranean and the atlantic raises a political problem. i agree with the commissioner that immigrants cannot be 'encouraged', but perhaps you can regard this phenomenon of immigration as the experience that something is wrong with development aid. this would in fact lead to a policy which would be complementary to the policies we have at present.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council of june last asked the finnish presidency to examine, in close cooperation with the commission, the possibilities of improving decision-making and action on the basis of the existing treaties in the area of freedom, security and justice. the commission has put forward a number of proposals in this respect in its communication 'implementing the hague programme: the way forward'. the proposals are currently being examined by the council and are expected to be reviewed by the european council at its december meeting. the commission proposal, which is linked to the improvement of the key decision-making process, concerns the use of the transitional clause provided for in article 42 of the treaty on european union, the so-called 'passerelle'. it would bring police cooperation and criminal law into the framework of the ec treaty. the proposal was discussed at the informal meeting of justice and home affairs ministers in september but did not receive the unanimous support required by article 42 of the treaty. the presidency will report to the european council in december. the honourable member is also asked to note that on 22 december 2004 the council adopted a decision on the application of the codecision procedure to certain areas falling within the fourth section of part three of the treaty establishing the european community, namely measures referred to in articles 62 (1), (2) (a) and (3) and 63 (2) (b) and (3) (b) of the treaty, concerning, for example, the abolition of internal border controls, checks at external borders, travel conditions, burden-sharing in refugee matters, illegal entry and illegal stay.
madam president, i believe you have given me the information you have at this time. i just wanted to stress one point: immigration. we want to create a large market in the union, a large area of freedom, security and justice. theoretically there are external borders and internal borders, but external borders differ from one state to another and therefore if decisions cannot be taken in the council on this matter so that immigration is regulated and applied uniformly throughout the european union, it will be impossible to create a large union market. do you think that at the december council we will be able to make progress, at least on this point, so that decisions on european immigration policy are not taken unanimously but by majority vote, in accordance with the 'bridge clauses' to which you have just referred?
president of the council. mr president, the union itself dictates and sets the conditions for membership for new member states, but it is important that new conditions and new criteria are not imposed in the middle of the accession process. in its latest report, published on 8 november, the commission assessed the fulfilment of the conditions for membership. finally, the prospects for continuing the negotiations will also be analysed for turkey at the december european council.
president of the council. mr president, as i said in my earlier reply, the council last summer announced that it would remain committed to enlargement. the council also undertook that the capacity for integration, or the so-called absorption capacity, was not becoming a new membership criterion for the applicant countries, but rather a process of reform which the union must be able to carry out internally. i understand that the council has not discussed the armenian genocide itself, but a thorough discussion on enlargement, its criteria and common views will take place at the december european council, so we will certainly know more afterwards. in any event, the council will take note of the parliament's resolution to which the questioner referred.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the council has not dealt with this question because it does not fall within the council's competence. however, the promotion of human rights is one of the european union's priorities. the commitment of the member states of the union to respect fundamental rights is also enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. the eu member states are also members of the council of europe and are therefore bound by the obligations of the european convention on human rights. it is expected that the european union agency for fundamental rights, once established and operational, will strengthen the union's monitoring and information capabilities and thus contribute to the maximum possible realization of fundamental rights. once again, it is the commission, not the council, which is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the union's treaties.
president of the council. mr president, after the incident to which the honourable member is apparently referring, the treaties of the union have in fact established the role of fundamental rights in the functioning of the union. however, no action is now planned on the basis of any precedent and the questions relating to the implementation of this community programme and its criteria naturally fall within the commission's competence.
president of the council. the european union has actively participated in the first and second sessions of the human rights council. the human rights council should live up to the high expectations of the international community and use effective and efficient working methods to fulfil all its tasks. the european union believes that it is still too early to properly assess the work of the human rights council. we're building a new body with new ways of working and new processes, and that takes time, patience and creativity. the human rights council's broad mandate covers prevention, cooperation and capacity building, but also, to a significant extent, urgent human rights situations. the key elements of the new body are cooperation and dialogue, which are enshrined in the un general assembly resolution establishing the human rights council. the eu therefore intends to continue steadily alongside others in this spirit and hopes that others are equally committed. the eu's view of the second session of the human rights council is that the dialogue on both thematic and country situations in the context of the special procedures and with the un high commissioner for human rights was a very positive achievement. the extension of the special procedures was a significant improvement in the practices of the human rights council. the quality of the dialogues and the large number of participants underlined the central role of the special procedures and the high commissioner for human rights in the human rights system, inter alia, by bringing the discussions closer to practical reality and by acting as an early warning. the eu welcomes the active participation of ngos in the discussion on both thematic and country situations. the eu continues to support their active participation in all the work of the human rights council. the eu supported the efforts of president de alban of the human rights council to draw up a concrete omnibus resolution on thematic issues and human rights emergencies, based on the consensus of the human rights council. the eu regrets that the negotiations on the text did not lead to an agreement. the eu supports a consensus-based approach wherever possible and worked hard to achieve this during the second session of the human rights council. we will continue to do so in the future. the eu was disappointed that no concrete results could be achieved in relation to the very serious human rights violations in darfur. the council's action is also needed in other emergency situations, such as the situation in sri lanka. the eu intends to continue its active work to enable the human rights council to fulfil all its mandate-related tasks in the forthcoming sessions.
substitute author. thank you very much, madam president-in-office of the council, for answering this question. we are faced with the problem at the moment that the un human rights council suffers from the same defects as the commission on human rights, namely its inability to adopt resolutions. the european union and its member states, especially those members of the human rights council, can help to overcome this situation. in particular, tomorrow, 15 november, there will be a special meeting on the violation of human rights by israel in the occupied territories, and from 27 november to 8 december the council will resume its decisions. does the presidency of the council think that the european union states will be able to push for results at these two meetings?
mr. president, gambling is not just any service, it's a dangerous activity. dangerous because it's playing on people's innocence and ignorance. in most of our member states, gambling is now regulated. i do not understand how it is possible that supranational bodies now want to impose on the member states a liberalisation of gambling services, when most of our societies do not accept it. the united states congress recently banned online gambling, and it seems to me that at this moment in time, in the european union, we should follow the american example, on the one hand, to protect our consumers against mafia organizations and, on the other hand, to protect that set of social institutions which today, in each of the member states, thrive on the legal, legal gambling activity permitted by the national authorities. so, from my point of view, i think the commission is right to look at the issue of gambling, but it has to look at it from the point of view of consumer protection and the protection of the institutions which today benefit from legal gambling in most of our member states.
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the colleagues who helped me draw up this report, and especially the members of the committee on culture and education. i also wish to thank commissioner figeľ, who has kept in contact with us, for his positions on plurality and on the issues related to minority languages, etc. thanks are also due to all the other colleagues, from several groups, and other people involved in the report, especially the members of the various ngos for the normalisation of languages who were in contact with us during the preparation of the report. i would like to mention in particular vicent santaló, a member of the legal staff at the catalan parliament, who worked with us until his death last summer. the main aim of this report is to move forward the concept of plurality in languages. plurality and diversity are common values of the european union. there should be unity among all europeans in this area, which should have plurality as one of its main aims, because a non-plural europe is a false and devalued europe. this is reflected in a certain manner in languages. as you know, in sociolinguistic terms there are ‘normalised’ languages, which are the fully official languages used in all walks of our lives. there are also ‘minorised’ languages, which are not fully official and cannot be used for every purpose, despite the fact they are the main languages in specific language communities. there is also a third group, which is that of minority languages. all these groups must be respected and preserved, and the preservation of language diversity is one of the aims of the european institutions. europeans are not as multilingual as we think. unfortunately, many european citizens have only one language – usually their mother tongue – and one of the main goals of the european union is to have a citizenship able to speak several languages. in order to achieve that, it is very important for there to be a change in mentality. our society was formed under the influence of jacobinist states. most european states are unilingual officially, and this is a remnant of jacobinism. however, this is not a true reflection of the facts. the aim of the european union is not to maintain this point of view, but to preserve genuine plurality and work towards citizens being able to speak several languages. we need a european language policy. that policy should promote multilingualism, improve the language skills of european citizens across the european union and preserve all languages, whether or not they are official eu languages. to this end, the budget and european programmes must support not just the main languages, but all languages, in order to improve diversity. in this way we must make a special effort to support endangered languages. every language is good for mankind, and if a language is lost we have all lost something because each language has its own unique expressions. it is for this reason that we must preserve genuine plurality and true diversity. in this sense, it is necessary to draw up a full report on the actions still to be developed.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to see that a framework strategy for multilingualism in the european union has been launched. our motto 'united in diversity' is a testament to the importance of the diversity of cultures, customs, beliefs and also languages in the construction of the union. the charter of fundamental rights has made respect for linguistic diversity one of our basic values. this principle applies not only to the official languages but also to the many regional and minority languages spoken in the union, including those of immigrant communities. this rich coexistence of different linguistic communities in europe sometimes results in extraordinary difficulties in the practice of daily work in the community institutions. regardless of the fact that all languages are equally important from a cultural point of view, i think it would be wrong to think that the institutions of the european union can function by using all of them at the same level. in my view, progress in promoting, defending and making known this linguistic diversity must be supported by the member states' pursuit of active policies to promote and defend their languages at educational level and in the more social sphere, including the media, and by promoting the learning of at least two foreign languages, with the aim of facilitating the knowledge of other cultures, encouraging mobility and contributing to awareness of european citizenship. finally, in the community institutions, it is a question of making it possible for citizens to communicate with the union in their mother tongue. and to make the use of mother tongues compatible with the day-to-day work of the institutions, it is necessary to establish different uses of the different languages and this is where we must work to agree on the basic criteria we use to agree on these working languages, without leaving out any element, either cultural or in relation to the number of speakers or the status of the languages in their respective states. i hope that the new commissioner for multilingualism, mr leonard orban, will share this idea and work in this direction.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, in the minute i have to speak, i want to support in a clear and explicit way the report presented by my colleague, mr joan i marí. if the european union is to live up to its slogan 'united in diversity', it must take multilingualism beyond the official languages as a flagship. just as the protection of biodiversity is and should be a core value in today's societies, so too the protection of linguistic diversity must be understood as a core element of progress, the promotion of peace and development. given that the violation of cultural, linguistic and identity rights is at the root of many of today's armed conflicts, it is urgent to see the promotion of multilingualism as a tool for promoting dialogue, encounter and peace. and if this is important in the world in general, it is especially so in a european union which, being already a union of values, aspires to be, one day, a political union. promoting multilingualism in europe therefore means wealth and progress. tending towards monolingualism, on the other hand, will make us poorer.
mr president, in its first communication on multilingualism, the european commission set three absolutely reasonable objectives a year ago: to promote language learning and linguistic diversity, to promote a multilingual economy, thereby improving labour mobility and the competitiveness of the european economy, and to provide all citizens with access to information about the union in their own language. the close link between this communication and the overall european objective, which we set at the barcelona council in 2002, of ensuring that children learn at least two foreign languages in addition to their mother tongue, will be obvious to everyone. that is precisely what the report which this parliament will vote on tomorrow should be about, offering the 450 million european citizens a wide range of tools to enable them to learn languages and thereby benefit from the enormous social, economic and cultural advantages of participating in our great project of integration, a project rich in national histories, languages and cultures, which today represents a dream of unity in diversity, for the benefit of all citizens. the rapporteur's opportunistic attempt to use this report to promote nationalistic and particularist approaches is highly inappropriate and completely distorts the meaning of the communication. in this respect, the work of the committee on culture and education is to be commended, which has responsibly and sensibly revised the original text and its ideologically biased approach with its amendments. it is enough to say that the rapporteur's intention was radical, since he ended up opposing his own report in the committee vote. respect for diversity is a principle of the union, but the use of languages to disintegrate member states on ethnic or linguistic grounds is nonsense and the people's group will always oppose it with all our strength.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully share the statement by commissioner mandelson and, as rapporteur for the report on the generalized system of preferences, i also stress the importance of the gsp plus as an incentive to engage the most vulnerable developing countries in sustainable development and good governance. i welcome the commission's decision of 21 december to grant its benefits to 15 countries which requested them and the steps taken subsequently by countries such as colombia, venezuela and el salvador in ratifying important ilo conventions. i would like to draw attention to three fundamental points concerning the way the system works. first, the purpose of the gsp plus is to promote, inter alia, human and labour rights through trade. this partnership is essential and must not be lost. trade must be an incentive for human and labour rights; protectionist deviations from this objective must be avoided. secondly, the success of the system requires an increase in the number of beneficiary countries. one of the commission's priorities must be to increase this significantly, since these countries now represent only 3% of the world's population. thirdly, the effectiveness of the system must be ensured by intelligent implementation, involving the european parliament. it is important that the commission cooperates with the beneficiary countries in fulfilling their commitments, through various initiatives and in particular by strengthening the monitoring and evaluation of their implementation, in a rigorous and regular manner, with transparency and involvement of the main social actors and the beneficiary countries, as stated in the parliament's report. the penalties provided for should also be applied where there are serious and systematic breaches of the principles, thus punishing the offenders but not the operators who comply adequately with their commitments. finally, as the motion for a resolution reiterates, the commission must prepare a study before the next revision of the regulation to assess the impact of the system, analyse its operation and assess the reforms that are being carried out.
the first item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the council's common position with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on services in the internal market (10003/4/2006 - c6-0270/2006 - 2004/0001 (cod)) (rapporteur: evelyne gebhardt (a6-0375/2006).
mr president, i think that the speeches made so far are clear: a large majority of this parliament will vote in favour of the text adopted, so we need not fear a rejection of the proposal for a directive. the conciliation procedure will therefore not be necessary. and this is due to the great work done by our colleague evelyne gebhardt, but also to the great work done by commissioner mccreevy. i want to congratulate you both here sincerely. i thank commissioner mccreevy for the statement on behalf of the commission on the exceptions in favour of labour, social and criminal law, which, as he has said, were necessary because they are in union law, but they clarify the situation. i think, in light of what some of the housewives have said, this is a great step forward. we cannot say, for example, as some member has said, that we cannot look at our electors. on the contrary, i did. on the contrary, my constituents are delighted that parliament has played this role at this time. nor can we criticise the excessive regulation. without regulation there is no organized society. those of us who are aware of what is happening, for example, in the third world - these are countries where there is no regulation - know that regulation is necessary. the regulations we have adopted will give european society a system of freedom and provision of services, while at the same time guaranteeing the high level of working, social and even environmental conditions we have at present. i think all three institutions have made a great effort. the amendments to be adopted on comitology were necessary. i am also glad that both the commission and the council have taken them up, and we hope that the further development of this directive, through the comitology procedures, in agreement between parliament, the council and the commission, will allow it to be refined, improved and the difficulties it may present to be clarified. in short, mr president, i think this is a great day for the european parliament, for the council, for the commission and for all the citizens of the european union.
i have the floor for a point of order, mr rack.
no, mr rack, i'm not going to. i was the one who was responsible for presiding over the voting. the reason for my slight delay was that i was at the airport receiving the emir of qatar and there was a slight delay in the round trip. we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
i would like to welcome mr olexander moroz, president of the verkhovna rada, the ukrainian parliament, who is in the gallery, and the delegation accompanying him. (applause) we wish mr moroz a happy stay with us and also the necessary wisdom to guide the parliamentary work in his country through the present difficult situation towards a democratic, prosperous and stable future in which he will always have our friendship and support. i am also pleased to welcome to the official gallery a delegation from the algerian parliament, chaired by mr abderrezak bouhara, vice-president of the council of the nation, who is visiting our parliament in these days. we hope that the meetings which mr bouhara will be holding with the members of the delegation for relations with the maghreb countries and with other members of this house will help to strengthen the many ties which unite us with the republic of algeria and will make it possible to make progress in the common quest for peace, prosperity and democracy for the countries on both sides of the mare nostrum.
ladies and gentlemen of the house, your highness, i would like to welcome the emir of qatar, sheikh hammad bin khalifa al-thani. but i also want to announce the presence in the guest gallery of the president of the ukrainian parliament, who is visiting us. it is our honour to welcome you today as the first head of state from a gulf country to address the european parliament. today, for the first time, we have the pleasure and the honour of receiving a head of state from such an important region as the gulf. you have been a pioneer in your region in the process of democratization. it has promoted a written constitution, approved by referendum, which guarantees a whole series of democratic reforms, including, of course, the recognition of freedom of expression and opinion, the granting of universal suffrage to all adults, men and women, and the creation of a parliament to be elected in elections to be held next year. besides, your highness, you've played an important role on the international stage. you and your country. a small country with only 200,000 citizens and more than 600,000 immigrants. a country which hosted the conference in doha which launched the wto round, which is still being held. it is the only arab state currently a member of the united nations security council. it is a pioneer in providing financial aid and sending troops to the peacekeeping force in lebanon. our soldiers and yours are together there. it has given a major boost to the search for a peaceful solution to the palestinian-israeli conflict, because it is one of the few arab states to maintain trade relations with israel. and you also made an important decision in your day, ten years ago, which had a great impact worldwide, when you authorized, in 1996, the broadcasting of the al-jazeera television channel, which considerably transformed access to news and information in the arab world. today this channel, al-yazira, broadcasts in english and contributes to dialogue and understanding between civilizations. perhaps one day we too will recognise the importance of a channel broadcasting in arabic and english and perhaps one day we too will be able to have a european television channel broadcasting in arabic. we are very curious, your highness, to hear the words you are going to pronounce this morning. we want to hear your opinion on the development of democracy in qatar. but we would also like to hear your views on what we can do to advance peace in palestine. and peace and stability in iraq. and to de-escalate tensions with iran. throughout my term of office - which is coming to an end - i have stressed the importance for europe of our relationship with the arab and islamic world. i think that is one of the most important geostrategic challenges facing europeans: our relationship with the islamic world, which has to go far beyond our relationship with our immediate neighbours, which are the mediterranean countries. parliament therefore welcomes the fact that negotiations have already begun on a trade agreement between our union, the european union and the member countries of the gulf cooperation council. let us hope that these negotiations can be concluded in the short term so that we can have a relationship with qatar and its neighbours characterised by greater strategic and political content. that also gives meaning and relevance to your visit to the european parliament today. your visit, the visit of your country, is important to us for many reasons, and it also comes on a symbolic day, because, also today, the united nations working group on the alliance of civilizations has just delivered its recommendations to secretary-general annan in istanbul. it is a good time for you to be here, among us, in strasbourg, in the heart of the european land, so that your word, the word of the arab world, may bring us closer together and enable us to begin to walk, more closely than yesterday, the road of tomorrow.
emir of the state of qatar the emir spoke arabic. this is a translation. in the name of god, the merciful, the compassionate, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to express my gratitude to you for your kind invitation to me to address your parliament, which represents 450 million europeans and is one of the most successful examples of regional integration in the whole world. i would also like to thank you for your hospitality and warm welcome and the friendly feelings that you have shown to me. when addressing the european parliament one has no choice but to express great admiration for the diligent work accomplished on the european continent for many decades. during those decades, your countries, with reason and willpower, have been able to forget the painful pages of the past and to open a new promising chapter that includes many instances of success. the high international status that the european parliament enjoys today represents a beacon of inspiration which many other countries are trying to emulate. we, in the arab world, have the experience of the league of arab states, which makes us hope that we will accomplish what you have accomplished. i would like here to emphasise that democracy is not a mere necessity for every state in the world, but it is a precondition for achieving regional economic integration and for the stability of international relations in any region of the world, because it prevents any one country from arbitrarily making decisions which is up to all nations in all countries to take. the state of qatar, as you well know, has chosen democracy as a means to protect human rights and to achieve the participation of the people. our choice of democracy is in accord with our obligation to practice the principle of al-shoura, which is one of the basic rules of islam, a rule that cannot be disregarded and which was put in place to enlarge the people’s participation. therefore democracy must not be limited to the few, but should include all people. that principle cannot be applied selectively. it is a fundamental right that cannot be ignored or trespassed. sometimes the reality in our region shows a practice different from the principles of islam. that is not due to a problem with the principle itself, but because it is misinterpreted and not accurately practiced. islam does not only urge its people to participate in public affairs: it also urges them to respect minorities and to protect their rights. it encourages people to learn about the cultures of others, to interact with them in a relationship of give-and-take. it has pleased me very much that many of my european friends know this about islam and know a lot about the history of their neighbours. this shows that they have a desire to engage in fruitful relationships and dialogue with their neighbours. i would like to mention that the arabs were the bridge on which the greek civilization crossed to europe, by the translation of greek works into arabic. many famous greek philosophers and thinkers were, in that way, transferred to the european intellect and consequently triggered the renaissance. many people came into contact with islam and converted to this religion with their full conviction and acceptance through interaction with muslims and cultural communication with them. islam spread through dialogue and flourished by conviction. it was never imposed by force on anyone. there are those who say otherwise, but those people are wrong and they have wronged islam. it is necessary here to emphasise the importance of dialogue between the followers of various religions and to exert efforts for continuity between those religions in order to avoid any artificial and useless clash. unfortunately, there are individuals and groups from both east and west, who have called for such a clash. those people are ignorant and have become the enemies of those who are different from them in race or colour. they have not seen in the diversity of the world a source of wealth and they have not heeded the call for rapprochement and dialogue in this world. i take this opportunity to call upon all reasonable, wise and honest people, both in the east and the west, to stand up together to block those cries for division and intolerance, which threaten peace and the respect for religions and holy places. (applause)we must call for respect for religions and holy places so as not to endanger them. it is equally important to cooperate in order to fight against the distortion caused by troublemakers, ignorance and extremists, of the perceptions fabricated by each party about the other. the state of qatar continuously exerts its efforts for this purpose and hosts many fora with the aim of encouraging dialogue between civilisations, amongst them the annual forum for dialogue between religions. middle eastern affairs have always been of significant importance to europe, because of the geographical proximity of the two regions and their political, economic and cultural continuity, which has never ceased to exist throughout history. that proximity makes it in the undoubted interest of europe to support comprehensive reform in the countries of the middle east, and to encourage them to continue these reforms with seriousness and with no turning back on democracy and without abusing the concept of democracy with empty words. comprehensive reform and real democracy are the way to a better middle east, in order that its countries may experience stability, its people may enjoy freedom, its institutions become stronger and its states may progress on the basis of the respect for law; a middle east whose people have all the basics and scientific and economic means to deal as equals with their neighbours and the rest of the world; to be partners with them and not be alienated from them. in this respect, we know, and probably europe knows even better, that immigration from or through the middle-east has become a huge challenge. although europe has worked very hard for years to address this challenge, successful solutions always need to go back to the roots of the problem and to deal with its causes, not only its symptoms. therefore, when the reform process succeeds and the culture of democracy stabilises in the middle east, and when its peoples are able to fight all forms of corruption, many of those who were seeking a decent life outside their countries will no longer emigrate, provided they can meet their aspirations in their own countries. the consolidation of democracy and achieving peace in the middle east are goals of equal importance. lack of democracy and not reaching a just solution for the palestinian problem has produced various forms of violence, which some people consider as terrorism to be fought against with the most severe means, without differentiating between one form or another, or considering ways to remove the causes that nourish it. we denounce all forms of terrorism and work together with the international community to fight it. however, we are keen to differentiate between the unjustified frightening of innocent people under whatever pretext, which is something that should be denounced, and what is the legitimate right of people to resist occupation according to international laws and customs. we believe that a just solution to the palestinian question should be based on the implementation of all international resolutions by both the israeli and the palestinian side, with the support of the international community to both sides. this will avoid the complexity that the relations between the two sides have reached recently. the palestinian government, constituted by the hamas movement, in accordance with the free will of the palestinian people in recent months, should have been given the opportunity to work for the people who elected it. instead of rewarding the palestinian people for practicing democracy – something rarely witnessed in our region – they have been punished for it. i do not understand how an embargo can be imposed on a government that has been democratically elected and how collective sanctions can be imposed on the people as a whole, just because it practiced its democratic right to elect the people who will govern it. (applause)is it not a double standard to demand free elections and then object to their results? settling the palestinian question is linked to the readiness of israel to fulfil all its obligations by implementing international resolutions, which stipulate the withdrawal from the arab occupied territories, the establishment of an independent palestinian state with the holy city of jerusalem as its capital, the immediate ending of the destruction of palestinian infrastructure and the killing and torturing of civilians, as a result of which tens of innocent palestinians in the occupied territories have lost their lives, the last instance being the massacre of beit hanoun. this is the way out for the palestinian question from the impasse that it has reached, and we think that the international community ought to exert more diligent efforts to reach a quick solution to this problem, because this would be beneficial not only to the middle east, but to the whole world. there is a need to find a comprehensive settlement to the arab-israeli conflict. this was reconfirmed by the recent destructive war waged by israel against lebanon. now that the fighting has stopped and now that the unifil forces – in which qatar decided to participate – have started to perform their tasks, we hope that lebanon will be able to exert its sovereignty on the whole of its territory and that israel will respect that sovereignty. as for iraq, we hope that country will overcome the crisis it is in now, that it will preserve its sovereignty and the unity of its territories, and that the iraqi people will recover security and freedom. i am confident that the european union, which is aware of the dangers imposed by the iraqi situation on the regional stability in the middle east, will redouble its efforts to help iraq to overcome the dangerous situation it is in now. stability in the middle east also requires that the european parliament continue its efforts to reach a peaceful solution to the iranian nuclear programme, which will confirm that its goals will remain solely peaceful and under the supervision of the international agency for atomic energy. here we would like to repeat our call to make the middle east a region free of nuclear weapons and to oblige israel to sign the non-proliferation treaty. (applause) before i end my speech, i would like to refer to the strength of the cooperation relationship between the european union and the state of qatar specifically, and with the cooperation council of the arab gulf states in general. the state of qatar, ever since it signed the cooperation treaty between the countries of the cooperation council of the arab gulf states and the then eec in 1989, has developed its relations with the european union in various fields. in the field of energy alone, qatar has signed contracts with a number of countries of the european union, amongst them italy, belgium, britain and spain, to provide those countries with their needs in terms of natural gas. we also have cooperation in other fields such as the cultural, political and economic fields. qatar and the european union will thus be able to strengthen their ties further. i would like to thank you once again, and may the peace and grace of god be upon you. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
thank you, your highness, for your words. i am sure that they will have contributed to a better understanding of the views of the arab world, of the islamic world, on issues which are of common interest to both europe and you. the european parliament has been honoured by your visit. thank you very much. (applause from the right)
we shall now proceed to the voting.
the voting is closed.
we shall now move on to the explanations of vote.
mr president, the basic motto of the european union is 'united in diversity'. and it is that from its origins we are trying to build a common space, not only economic, but, above all, a space of opportunity for life and freedom. and we are doing it between people and nations who have a lot in common; i do not mean only the strategic, political and social interests we share, but also values, behaviours and ways of understanding life itself. we have a common cultural background, coined in greek thought, roman law, christianity, the reformation, the enlightenment, the renaissance and even globalism. but at the same time it is indisputable that we still maintain particular cultural and identity differences, and especially languages and dialects. this diversity, which might be seen only as an obstacle, turns out to be a great wealth and a source of vitality. that is why, although it has not been adopted, i have voted in favour of the proposal to amend the treaty on european union so that there can be community legislation on the respect and protection of languages, particularly minority languages, and the creation of a european agency for linguistic diversity and multilingualism. i also voted in favour of encouraging all european citizens to learn at least two other languages in addition to their own, as a better way of promoting mutual understanding, coexistence and unity.
this closes this spot.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam vice-president of the commission, i think we should draw two conclusions from the debate we are having this afternoon. the first of these was referred to by the president of my group, mr poettering, when he said that we must be consistent with the attitude adopted in the past and, just as we have condemned the indiscriminate attacks on innocent israeli victims, we must condemn this disproportionate attack by israeli forces, in which civilians, especially women and children, have been killed. unfortunately, mr president, despite the apology of the prime minister and the investigation that the israeli government is going to carry out, these people are not going to be brought back to life. mr president, we were reminded this morning at the solemn sitting that only in the context of a just and comprehensive solution will it be possible to overcome these problems of recurrent violence in the middle east. but i am struck - and i am glad that the council presidency is here - by the unfortunate fact - as a belgian prime minister, mark eyskens, pointed out - that out of every 100 votes cast by the european union at the united nations, 60 are cast differently. the european union will thus lose its weight on the international scene. i think everyone in this house recognizes the right of israel to self-defence, but nothing would have happened if the united nations had condemned this tragic event. that is why, mr president, i ask the presidency of the council to ensure that if the european union wants to have weight on the international scene, it speaks with one voice, at least on the international scene and, in particular, at the united nations, where our member states should not give the regrettable spectacle that has been produced on the occasion of these tragic events that we are condemning.
mr president, like so many other instruments regulating weapons on a global scale, the existence of the convention on toxic and biological weapons is a necessary, but not sufficient, tool in the fight against human irrationality. there is therefore only one acceptable option for the sixth review conference which is due to start on 20 november: to strengthen this instrument, especially in order to develop genuine verification mechanisms, and to promote its universality. on the other hand, as regards cluster bombs, i can only strongly support the call for the convention on inhuman weapons to be given a sixth protocol and, i would say, even a specific and complete treaty, which would unequivocally prohibit the production, storage, transfer and use of such weapons, as is already the case with anti-personnel mines. given the indiscriminate nature of cluster bombs and the great impact they have on the civilian population, the use of such weapons cannot, under any circumstances, be tolerated any longer. the case of lebanon, which is currently under investigation, is just one of many examples that make this clear.
author. - mr president, in recent years, and without going into the reasons behind this, a number of countries have been suffering from serious natural disasters. especially in the summer months, we suffer from fires, floods and the effects of a particularly severe drought. it is often observed that the regions affected in the member states, even the most developed ones, lack the means to cope with such phenomena on their own. and yet it seems that we are sometimes more diligent in showing solidarity when the damage is thousands of miles away than in a member state. the council seems to be taking a passive attitude. some people will say that we do not want to spend more, but it is not a financial question, and an example of this is that you, ladies and gentlemen of the council, have stopped the reform of the european solidarity fund, which does not involve an additional euro in the community budget. sometimes we run out of arguments. the house approved the sending of a delegation to the most affected regions at the beginning of september and the bureau of parliament is still involved in regulatory matters to give the go-ahead to that delegation. but we are not going to be discouraged, because nobody understands that we are not putting resources towards a common effort that will make us more effective in helping people. and that in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity. it is not intended to undermine the sovereignty of any member state. there is a report, commissioned by michel barnier, on the council table, which is a good working table. i wonder if the council intends to follow up on this dossier. the european parliament will certainly be enthusiastically supporting it and the europeans will be grateful to it.
mr president, the development of the european security strategy was influenced by three major debates on an international scale: the new threats it had to face and how to deal with them, especially after 9/11, the difficulties of the united nations as a multilateral and universal forum for preventing and managing disputes, and the commitments the european union must make in order to become a more active, capable and coherent player with a global reach. the european security strategy thus points out that the greatest challenges facing the european union and its citizens today are international terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts, failed states and organised crime. i agree with the importance of these problems, of course. but i am afraid that this list does not give sufficient emphasis to other aspects which i think are as important as those mentioned, if not more so. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. in this respect, i believe that the european union is not always the most appropriate response, either politically or structurally. for example, we have long heard voices in favour of creating a single european army. however, this army is usually presented as an addition or, if you like, a complement to the 25 existing armies, and not as a replacement, as i think it should be. although we seem to agree that large numbers of national armies are no longer necessary to meet the challenges of today, we still have 25 national armies in the european union, totalling some two million personnel, whose first and foremost mission is to defend the borders and interests of the states and which together cost more than eur 160 million a year. on the other hand, we would like to see figures that are equally dedicated to conflict prevention and management. in short, the facts and the decisions of governments do not seem to be keeping pace with the paradigm shift in security that we are experiencing in recent times, especially at european level.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr gargani and the committee he chairs on having put forward a proposal which, if approved by this house - as i hope - will not be translated into a legislative proposal. i too would like to start with a statement. we have worked for a long time to understand the thinking of legal practitioners, experts in the field, but above all the citizens of the european union, as regards the possibility of having an instrument which clearly identifies the applicable law and thus makes it possible to facilitate the creation of a genuine european area in the field of successions and wills. a eurobarometer survey carried out in july 2006 on the various aspects of family law in europe showed that an average of 80% of european citizens believe that the recognition of last wills is necessary throughout europe. there are of course countries where the consensus is even stronger: for example, in germany, a large founding country, and in latvia, a smaller country, there was a 92 per cent consensus in favour of such legislation. in my country, italy, 88 percent, as well as in hungary. there was therefore a broad response, with an average of four fifths of european citizens in favour of facilitating the european regulation of wills. in march 2005, the commission published a green paper on the subject, which enabled us to collect hundreds of responses of great interest from academic circles, the judiciary and the relevant actors. we also got a lot of good ideas from the hearing on transnational successions, which parliament had the good idea of organising. i should also like to inform you that the commission has itself organised a public hearing on the same subject, to be held on 30 november, which will enable us to gather further ideas which, together with the report by mr gargani, will, in my view, enable us to submit a legislative proposal soon. the last point i want to make is the one which president gargani has already mentioned, namely the european certificate of succession. i also believe, as does the rapporteur, that if we want a european instrument to be truly effective, it must have binding effect within the european territory. in this connection, many of you will recall other instruments of private international law on which we have reached agreement. if a given instrument, once adopted in one member state, could be called into question each time in the other member states where it is to be applied, since it does not have binding effect, one of the cornerstones of the area of free movement of decisions would be undermined. it could of course be objected that a certificate of succession, as such, always has a binding value, because otherwise it could not certify situations. i think it is appropriate to stress the binding nature of this directive in this case, because we are creating, perhaps for the first time, a useful instrument for solving the problem of circulation between european citizens, which is also expressed through the recognition of last wills, that is, successions and wills. i therefore take the liberty of expressing in advance an opinion which is in full agreement with that of mr gargani.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, mr gargani has presented us with a report which expresses the desire of the committee on legal affairs to see the european institutions intervene in the field of succession law. commissioner frattini pointed out that 80% of european citizens believe that the law of succession should be regulated and recognised in a uniform manner throughout the european union. we are not talking about theories, but about the realities of people living in different countries, who have families in different countries and who, when the succession event occurs, find themselves in an absolutely desperate situation. unfortunately, the treaties of the european union do not provide for the possibility of harmonising substantive law in matters of succession. it is something that will probably have to be rectified in the future, because it is difficult to understand that the consequences, the legal system, the rights of heirs, change completely because of the fact of crossing a few kilometres, depending on whether a person settles in one country or another. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. commissioner frattini has expressed the commission's willingness to do so. we probably can't get much further at this point. in the committee on legal affairs we have discussed the merits and content of the proposals which mr frattini includes in the annex; there are some amendments tabled by my socialist colleague, mrs maria berger, which are aimed at correcting some of the shortcomings which are found in that annex, but the most important thing is that the commission, as mr frattini has said here, is prepared to make concrete proposals. it is a subject on which improvisation is not possible, since we must rely on our experience. anyone who has ever had to deal with the problem of international succession within the european union will have encountered tremendous difficulties, especially of a judicial nature. it is probably necessary to start addressing the issue from the point of view of jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of courts, the recognition and effectiveness of decisions, by eliminating, as mr gargani recommends, the 'exequatur' procedure, which has no meaning in the european union. i hope, therefore, that the efforts of mr gargani and the contribution of mr frattini will enable us to have concrete proposals on the table soon for the development of community law in this area.
madam president, we know that international conflicts affect women in a particular way: refugees and displaced persons, for example, are mostly women. but we must also be aware that it was not women who took the decisions that led to this situation, because, as mrs gomes' very interesting report shows, there are virtually no women in decision-making in international politics, despite the recommendations of the beijing platform for action and un security council resolution 1325, and despite the fact that, according to experts, women are especially gifted at negotiating and making agreements. paradoxically, most of the ngos playing an active role in peace negotiations and post-conflict processes are formed by women. women who, as the report acknowledges, must be supported by the institutions. it is urgent to take all necessary measures to ensure a balanced presence of men and women in all areas where decisions affecting our collective destiny are taken. because the absence of women is evidence of a democratic deficit. the measures proposed in the report in this regard seem to me to be very courageous and interesting and very much in line with those being taken by the government of my country, spain. i'm not going to tell you.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, thank you, mr european ombudsman, and thank you, mr schwab, for your report, which is so well-worked, inclusive and positive. i would like to begin by agreeing with mrs wallis's proposal and endorsing the proposal for a single european window for citizens' complaints. a one-stop shop that could include solvit, the european ombudsman and the committee on petitions and would be responsible for directing citizens' complaints to the appropriate institution. we cannot expect people on the street to know how to decipher this labyrinth as complicated as the european union is. i am sorry that the report, which is very positive in general, has reflected on the third special report of the ombudsman, which was to be a report on olaf and which was blocked by the conference of presidents. the schwab report seems to legitimize, in some of its sentences, the attempts of the conference of presidents of this house to impede the ombudsman in his work of monitoring all european bodies, including olaf. the ombudsman's efforts, such as those concerning the environment, are particularly appreciated when there is a great deal of public concern about it. i would mention in particular the case of the industrial port of granadilla in the canary islands, where the ombudsman has tried, with some success, to ensure that the habitats directive is more rigorously applied. it is also important to mention the special report on the transparency of the council when it acts as a legislator, in which i was able to take part personally. we see that there is a slow, gradual, but certain progress in this field. finally, i would like to make it clear that the role of parliament's committee on petitions is not at all in contradiction with the role of the ombudsman, but that they are complementary. the ombudsman monitors the european institutions themselves in their day-to-day work, while the committee on petitions acts as a direct intermediary between citizens and the body of community law. this collaboration should be more fluid, with more information and more contact, day by day. i thank you, mr schwab, for the report, and i thank you, mr european ombudsman, for your work, which is so intense, so wide-ranging and so important.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to add my thanks to the ombudsman, mr diamandouros, and to our rapporteur, mr schwab, because both have the virtue of trying to improve the way in which complaints, administrative and otherwise, from european citizens are handled. i believe that the time has come to take concrete steps to improve this situation. some interesting points have already been made, such as the online form and the better delimitation of the powers of the bodies, but i think we should be a little more bold. we should move towards a code of good administrative behaviour for all the european institutions and the single window, which mr hammerstein has already mentioned, may also be important. however, the reports show that 24% of complaints relate to a lack of transparency. i think that we must make an effort here to encourage a public debate in europe on the proximity of citizens to the institutions and to ensure that they act in an absolutely transparent way. i would like to point out one more problem which the members of the committee on petitions should solve. we receive many complaints from citizens about major works, major infrastructures, which are carried out in the european union without the mandatory environmental impact study. the european commission sometimes comes late with its report, because the damage caused by certain very important pharaonic works is already irreversible. i think the european commission must act much more quickly to prevent this damage from having a truly devastating impact on the environment. in this respect, i think we should all do our part to ensure that there are rapid evaluation mechanisms for this type of work, so that such damage is avoided. i think the european network of ombudsmen is important because it can indeed provide the key to many solutions which will prevent the complaints of european citizens and, where appropriate, improve our responses to them.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr diamandouros on his detailed report, which shows a way forward and an improvement in the relationship between citizens and the european administration. i also congratulate commissioner wallström and thank her for her tireless efforts to facilitate citizen communication with the european institutions and to mobilise agile, simpler and more interactive solutions. and of course, mr schwab, i congratulate you in particular on the depth with which you have dealt with these subjects, which seem routine, but which are definitely the vanguard in the deepening of 'more europe'. i am particularly pleased with the progress made in the task of mediation and accompaniment in the face of the demands of the citizens and i am particularly interested in the friendly solutions that are being proposed. i would also ask you, mr diamandouros, to develop a format for the peaceful settlement of conflicts which will serve as a model for europe. i am sure that both the administration and the citizen are moving forward in the deepening of democracy through better and more transparent administration. i also welcome the explicit proposal to make the internet pages of all the institutions available in all the official languages of the union. i share mr schwab's constructive concern about the need to improve cooperation, without prejudice or misunderstanding, between parliament and the european ombudsman, but avoiding overlaps between the two: the committee on petitions and the ombudsman are still looking for their own way, which is why the participation of the committee on petitions in the european network of ombudsmen is a positive thing. finally, i am a little concerned, perhaps because i am not aware of the scope of the matter, that the future of the ombudsman seems to be in the courts, and i hope that this does not mean that we will abandon early on the improvement of information and, above all, the effort to find peaceful solutions to conflicts. early judicial prosecution is not the best solution for improving the relationship between citizens and the european public administration and i refer to the existing examples mentioned. i sincerely believe that the european citizens' confidence in their ombudsman must be based on a greater capacity to resolve conflicts peacefully.
the rapporteur. - mr president, when mrs wallström gave the european parliament the white paper on a european communication policy and i was informed that she had the honour of being the rapporteur for the report on that book, a journalist friend of mine who works here in the european parliament told me that the best thing i could do was to make a very short report, with only one point to say: 'mrs wallström, the only purpose of this book is to use it as gift paper, because it is an exercise of goodwill, but useless'. and i said to my friend, "i think you're unfair. i think mrs wallström is trying to make a good information and communication policy and, moreover, call me naive, i have seen with her on several occasions that this is her purpose. the circumstances in which an information and communication strategy in the european union needs to be articulated do not exist today. so why don't you give? because there is no legal basis to enable us to articulate this information and communication strategy and, therefore, to enable us to set out actions and monitor them properly. so let us go one step further - as i said when i was making this report - and try to make things different from what they have been until now, because every time we meet to discuss information and communication strategy, we make a kind of general set of recommendations which are always toasted to the sun. let's try to get what we don't have yet. let us have that legal basis which will enable us to act much more effectively in the future. i have done some research and found that there is only one way to achieve this legal basis: the application of article 308 of the treaty. when i was told the circumstances in which this article could be applied, i was tempted to say 'it's impossible, we're not going to get it'. because three very difficult conditions must be met: first, the commission must ask for it; secondly, parliament must agree; and thirdly, and this is the most difficult, the council must approve it unanimously. i spoke to mrs wallström and she said that the commission was in agreement. i spoke to all the alternative rapporteurs and they said that parliament could agree. and we had the opportunity to hear the view of the minister in the interinstitutional group, who was at that time acting as the council's representative, and who told us that she was in a position, not to guarantee that, because she cannot do that, but to believe that unanimity could be achieved in the council. we are therefore faced with a circumstance in which an astral conjunction occurs which is very difficult to re-occur again. and in politics the most important thing is to take advantage of the circumstances that the moment presents. we have an opportunity now that we will probably not have again in the future. a very good opportunity to improve, to have a legal basis. it does not mean that it is the panacea or the cure for all our ills, but it is clearly going to be progress. and we have only two choices: either we accept it or we reject it. my proposal is that we accept it. mrs prets, christa, i ask you, please, to help me, because i know that your party, because of mr corbett's intervention, is going to vote against the application of article 308. mr corbett believes there is another formula for obtaining a legal basis. there isn't one. and if there is, tell me which one. let's negotiate it. let's talk about it. no amendment from the committee on constitutional affairs has given us an alternative. gérard onesta, the rapporteur for this report, to whom i am very grateful for his intervention on behalf of the green group, has been able to understand that we have this opportunity, and to take advantage of it. you know, christa, that in the committee on culture and education there was only one vote against this report, which calls for the application of article 308. let's try to take advantage of it. because it's not an ideological issue. i have praised mrs wallström, who is not from my party, because i think she is doing the right thing. thank you, mr bono, for being the socialist group's alternate rapporteur on the committee on culture and education. and i know that if you could, you'd give me a hand. but i also know that group discipline sometimes imposes criteria that aren't good. i ask you to think about it until the time of the vote so that we can get this report through. i beg you most earnestly. it's not an ideological issue. it's a political issue. it's a chance. it's either now or it's hardly in the future. this is the best way of articulating the policy we want to have. otherwise, ladies and gentlemen of the committee on culture and education, we shall meet every year and hear a collection of good intentions which, besides costing a lot of money, we shall pass on to the commissioner at the last minute and we shall not be able to control. we won't know very well what the money is spent on, or what it's for. we'll be circling that circus. please, mr bono, mrs prets, mrs badia i cutchet, i see you here, you are members of the committee on culture and education: we discussed it and approved it in that committee, with only one vote against. and mr corbett's amendment was not passed by the committee on constitutional affairs. they have provided us with no alternative. let us be consistent with the political opportunity that is being offered to us. i really, really ask you.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on this report we are again looking at the distance between the community institutions and the citizens and how to reduce it. i believe that, while acknowledging the great effort made by the commission and parliament to deal with this distance, it is absolutely essential to have the complicity of the media and the national parliaments. there is a widespread feeling that the media in the member states consider what is happening here to be neither news nor of interest to the general public. the first thing we should do is to involve the media more directly, so that they can help us to translate and bring the community dimension closer to the citizens without technical problems. with this complicity, we would probably also be able to broadcast the news of the european union at prime time in the media programme. we must make it easier for these professionals to do their job, and we must simplify and make procedures more transparent: we must be complicit and work together with the national parliaments so that they can convey the issues of concern at national, regional and local level and thus generate feedback which normally incorporates questions of european policy. on the other hand, i think it is right to continue to rely on the internet as one of the main providers of community information. however, the internet only reaches a part of the public, which is already interested. we have another audience, which only accesses the traditional media - television and radio - through their respective national, regional or local channels or stations. in this field, new technologies can open up a new horizon, integrating different services and products that can facilitate the transmission of information in a multimodal way, thus broadening the target audience.
mr president, on 1 february 2006 the commission presented the white paper on a european communication policy, and mr herrero's report, which was approved by a large majority in the committee on culture and education, takes up the main guidelines suggested by the commission, but introduces a major innovation, which has given rise to a serious and thorough debate, both in this parliament and at interinstitutional level. the report by mr herrero, in paragraph 10, calls on the commission to explore the possibility of launching a european information and communication programme, in accordance with article 308 of the treaty. as vice-president responsible for information and communication in this parliament, i have followed this debate very closely and i must point out that the interinstitutional group has given a positive assessment to the creation of a legal basis and that all the institutions, as mr herrero reminded us, have also shown their support. my conclusion is that it's worth a try. i am aware of the reservations raised by this proposal, all based on the loss of control by parliament, which is curious, ladies and gentlemen, because it is difficult to lose what you do not have. however, three things must be kept in mind. firstly, the report makes it clear that if the commission submits a proposal, parliament must be fully involved in the elaboration of its content; secondly, parliament has the powerful tool of budgetary control; and thirdly, there is the interinstitutional group on communication, whose mandate is to set the basic guidelines of communication policy. we must shed our complexes and create a communication strategy that is able to present, explain and defend europe through reason, but also with enthusiasm, passion and emotion. i therefore wholeheartedly support mr herrero's report and his proposal to create a programme on the basis of article 308 of the treaty.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission welcomes and supports the thrust of the draft resolutions concerning the human rights situation in iran. our assessment is that serious violations of human rights have continued to occur in the country during 2006. in fact, there has been no progress in the eu’s main areas of concern, and in many respects the situation has worsened. the list of examples is long and grim: an increased use of the death penalty and the occurrence of juvenile executions continue to be of grave concern; ethnic and religious minorities continue to suffer from discrimination; the status of women remains poor; freedom of expression has been further curtailed; and the closure of newspapers, intimidation and prosecution of journalists and the clampdown on bloggers have all continued. the european union has raised these concerns with the iranian authorities during the past year, through both démarches and public statements. unfortunately, as has been said in this house, it seems that the iranian authorities are less willing than they have been in the past to take our requests into serious consideration or to make any tangible efforts to improve the situation. that said, some elements within the body politic, such as the chief judiciary, do appear somewhat committed to the cause of reform. however, given the overall deteriorating situation, the eu has decided to co-sponsor the canadian resolution on the human rights situation in iran in the un third committee later this month. since tehran maintains that the bilateral human rights dialogue and un-type resolutions are mutually exclusive, it has signalled that it would consider calling off the session of the eu-iran dialogue on human rights, scheduled for december. we, of course, firmly reject any such link. we still aim to resume the dialogue shortly. we remain convinced that constructive dialogue, accompanied by cooperative projects both bilaterally and through un agencies is the most realistic means to engage in the field of human rights. mrs prets has suggested that the union should sponsor radio or television programmes. i am not competent to give an affirmative response to that, but as regards people-to-people contacts it is worth noting that one million iranians visited turkey in 2005. they went there in order to breathe some fresh air, watch ‘the bold and the beautiful’ and check out the benchmark of democracy in that troubled region. the crux of the matter in our relations with iran is that, irrespective of positive or negative developments on the nuclear issue, which is extremely important, without a systematic improvement of the human rights situation in iran, our relations with that country cannot develop properly, no matter how much potential our relationship might otherwise have in terms of economic and energy cooperation. i wish to conclude by expressing my appreciation for the work undertaken by the delegation for relations with iran, chaired by mrs beer. i welcome your efforts to develop contacts with your interlocutors from the majlis, as well as with the widest possible spectrum of iranian society. the recent visit to this house by mr akbar ganji – whose liberation we all worked tirelessly for – is an important case in point.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 16 november 2006.
the next item is the debate on the future of europe, with the participation of the irish prime minister, a member of the european council. during this debate we shall have - for the first time and as an exception - simultaneous interpretation from irish into all the official languages. (applause) the first item on the agenda is scheduled to be debated until 4.30 p.m. after that we will deal with the statements by the council and the commission on the summit between russia and the european union. the speaking times will have to be adjusted to this timeframe. first of all, allow me to welcome the prime minister of ireland on your behalf. taoiseach, in a few weeks, in the new year, our house will adopt the irish language as the 21st official language. we will do our utmost, in this multilingual house, to respect the commitments made in the treaties and the rights of all languages to be used in our house. today we have a visitor - the taoiseach of ireland - who has been involved in the european council for a long time. he has been one of the deans of the european council since 1997 (soon to be ten years old). he took office as irish prime minister a few days after the amsterdam council, which was the first failed attempt to seriously reform the european institutions. the treaty of nice was a marathon, and it resulted in a treaty which was considered unsatisfactory from an institutional point of view. that treaty, the treaty of nice, was rejected by the irish people in a referendum in 2001. but the irish prime minister took up the challenge of an intensive public information campaign and got ireland to approve the treaty of nice in a second referendum 18 months later in 2002. the european parliament welcomed this and congratulated him warmly. he then presided over the european council during the intergovernmental conference on the constitutional treaty in june 2004. those of us who were at the convention remember his pilgrimage through various european capitals in search of a delicate compromise which he finally succeeded in reaching. so you, mr. prime minister, are a privileged witness to our institutional quest. that is why we are privileged to have you here today to explain to us how you think the european union can break out of the impasse in which it finds itself. ireland has also developed an intense debate among its citizens. it has had a permanent forum for five years and that is at least one of the things we have gained from the rejection in the referendum in some country: we have brought back the debate on europe, we have encouraged the debate in civil society and ireland is probably the country that has done it in a more structured and permanent way. i would remind you that the belgian prime minister was our guest last may and that he is the second guest to be invited to this exercise, a novel exercise, since the plenary only receives, in principle, heads of state or heads of government who assume the presidency of the council. in this case, we welcome you, in an innovative framework. you will have all the time you need to explain your views to us and then there will be a first round of speeches with the presidents of the political groups, to which you will be able to reply, if you wish, before we open the way for the speeches of other members. thank you very much for coming, taoiseach. you have the floor. (applause) i would like to thank
prime minister of ireland. president borrell, it is a great honour to be here again. i am very grateful for the invitation to exchange views on the future of europe with all the members of the european parliament today. as someone who has spent more than half of my lifetime as a member of parliament, i cherish this renewed opportunity to address the only directly elected, multinational legislative body in the world. since i last addressed you in 2004, the constructive influence of the european parliament in advancing the concerns of europe’s citizens has continued to grow. your vision is needed as we face the difficult challenges ahead. i wish you every success, mr president, for the remainder of your term of office. i also wish your successor well. i wish you continued success and congratulate you on all that you have achieved. we look forward in particular to your visit to dublin in the days ahead as part of the forum for europe, into which we have put an enormous amount of effort. i thank you for your kind remarks about the forum for europe. it is not a government body: it represents all the organisations in the country and it is hugely successful. you do us an enormous honour by coming to address it. explaining europe to the public remains probably our greatest challenge, at both european and national level. therefore, mr president, i particularly welcome and look forward to this discussion and to discussions with you in the days ahead. you will be visiting a country that has benefited enormously from its membership of the european union. some key facts stand out. since we joined europe in 1973, our national wealth stood at just 60 per cent of the european average at that stage. even after accession, we were plagued by emigration, unemployment, high inflation and spiralling debt. these dismal conditions have been completely reversed in recent years. the role of the european union was vital to all of that. europe provided invaluable assistance to us at a critical period in our national development. the phrase ‘the future of europe’, like so many phrases, has become part of our jargon. but let us recall for a moment the significance of what those words ‘the future of europe’ really mean, for ourselves and for the wider world. for our own people in europe, as we approach the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome, it means consolidating and developing our extraordinary union – a union which has been so successful that many now take its success for granted. in a world which knows so much uncertainty, oppression, deprivation and violence, the union is a bedrock of prosperity, stability and deep-rooted democracy. the very essence of the european union – this powerful blend of pragmatism, of patience and vision – was captured by robert schuman when he observed that: ‘europe will not be made all at once, or according to one single plan: rather it will be formed by taking concrete measures which bring about real solidarity.’ our union is not, and must never become, an inward looking one. from 1 january we will be a union of 27 with the very welcome accession of bulgaria and romania. we will remain open to further enlargement in line with our commitments, our responsibilities and our principles. we also have growing responsibilities in relation to the wider international community. it is indeed a paradox that, at a time when we appear to be unsure internally of the precise direction which the future development of our union should take, our role externally has never been more important or more clear. the wider world increasingly looks to europe for leadership, for support and for the promotion of our values. the founding fathers of europe would be proud to see the europe of today – what we are and what we bring to our world. however, they would insist that our benchmark must be set not against where we have come from, but rather against what we must still achieve. today europe faces as great an array of challenges as ever, including globalisation, technological change, migration, energy security and terrorism. these challenges have not been dreamed up in brussels or strasbourg: they have risen up the union’s agenda because they are very real and directly relevant to all our citizens. the challenge must not only be met but also addressed in a way which reassures our citizens and responds to their anxieties and aspirations. the union, in approaching these issues, is rightly pursuing two broad parallel tracks. in respect of both tracks, the role of the european parliament will be crucial. on the one hand, we are continuing to reflect on the question of the constitutional treaty and we will return to it next june on the basis of a report by chancellor merkel. on the other hand, we are seeking to address the concerns of our citizens in practical ways under the existing treaties. both of these tracks are essential. we cannot put practical progress on hold; neither can we wish away the need to provide the union with a coherent, streamlined basis for addressing the challenges of a new century. the constitutional treaty is designed to provide a much-needed basis for practical progress; and the practical progress we strive for will continue and contribute to a positive context for reaching agreement on the urgent institutional questions. i would like to address these two twin issues in turn. nobody can predict with any certainty what the future holds for the constitutional treaty. there is, of course, no easy answer. i would, however, like to share with you briefly my own reflections and i look forward greatly to hearing your own perceptions in this afternoon’s debate. a good starting point for trying to evaluate what lies ahead is often to reflect briefly on why and how we got to be where we are today. history is important because it can help us to make wise choices about the future. since the irish presidency had the privilege of bringing the intergovernmental conference negotiations to a conclusion, i have a particular awareness of the processes which made that agreement possible. so let me start by recalling what seem to be three fundamental realities about the situation we have reached. first, it is important to remember that the constitutional treaty was agreed because it was necessary. the need for the substantive provisions has grown rather than diminished. we need its more coherent external policy to meet our growing international responsibilities. we need its subtle, balanced and effective provisions in the area of justice and home affairs to strengthen our fight against crime. we need its more open, comprehensible, democratic and effective procedures, including its significantly enhanced role for the european parliament. we need its principles and its values. moreover, apart from the constitutional treaty’s specific elements, we need it because the long term stability, prosperity and coherence of europe are of fundamental importance for our people as well as for people beyond our borders. second, the process which led to the agreement of the constitutional treaty was long, complex and difficult. the convention was unprecedented in its openness and achievement. the european parliament was highly influential at the convention, which also benefited greatly from the direct involvement of national parliaments. the subsequent igc involved intensive bilateral and collective negotiations in which the views of each member state, as well as of the commission and parliament, were taken very carefully into account. the process leading to agreement was a comprehensive and inclusive one. i visited every capital, as the president kindly recalled, and everyone was listened to and helped to shape the outcome. third, participants were in the end able to accept the outcome of the negotiations because they saw it as a balanced overall package. the institutional provisions in particular were closely interrelated and formed a single whole. the difficulties of moving forward with the constitutional treaty are significant, but any analysis of what europe needs, of how we got to where we are today and of the alternatives convince me that the right and realistic option is to return at the appropriate time to the substance and balance of the constitutional treaty. i understand that this is also broadly the view of this parliament. in moving forward, we must ensure that the basis for progress must be an inclusive one in which the concerns and views of all are taken into account, including the legitimate concerns expressed by the citizens in many member states. chancellor merkel will be consulting closely with each member state and with the institutions. i have no doubt that her report to the june european council will be soundly based and well judged. however, let me at this stage offer four reflections. first, we must continue to work to change the context in which we will return to consider the constitutional treaty. this means continuing to address, as effectively as we can, the concerns of our citizens on issues from employment to mobile phone charges, from enlargement to the fight against crime. that is what you, the directly elected representatives of the people of europe, do so effectively week-in, week-out. second, the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome next march offers an important opportunity to highlight for our citizens the achievements and potential of the union. a succinct, consensual and eloquent declaration on that occasion, in the name of the council, the commission and the european parliament, could represent a very positive element in creating a new context for our wider institutional debate and perhaps also in addressing some of the specific concerns which have arisen in the national debates on the constitutional treaty. third, as was the case on previous occasions when european treaties ran into difficulties at national level, additional elements could be introduced to address concerns that have arisen. such additions could enrich rather than undermine the substance and balance of the treaty. fourth, the presentation, the length and, in some respects, the nature of the constitutional treaty could also be amended significantly without affecting its basic substance and balance. to give some examples, it could be brought out more clearly that what is involved is a treaty and that, in many respects, it essentially amends rather than replaces the existing treaties. for the irish government’s part, we remain resolutely and enthusiastically committed, as soon as the situation has been fully clarified, to holding a referendum on the substance of the constitutional treaty. the treaty remains important for europe, for our people and for those who look to our values. as i said at the outset, it is essential that europe also pursue the second track which we have set for ourselves, namely addressing, as best we can under the existing treaties, the priorities of our citizens. i believe it is important to maintain broadly the distinctiveness of the two tracks. we should be wary of the selective advance application of elements which form part of the balance in the constitutional treaty. let us not be unduly pessimistic about what we have achieved so far in terms of practical progress. the european economy is gaining in strength. more people are in work. an enlargement of historic proportions, which not long ago seemed unimaginable, has taken root and has greatly enriched our union. but we are not here, at either european or national level, to congratulate ourselves. the successful football club is not the one that focuses on the trophy room: it is the one that focuses on the matches ahead. one only has to look at the agenda of any of your parliamentary sessions to appreciate the range and depth of the challenges we face. time requires me to address what seem to be the strategic underlying challenges. allow me to address briefly five of those challenges. first, there is the competitiveness challenge. this has many important european dimensions: better regulation, a strong and appropriate competition policy, research and development, the removal of barriers in the internal market, and perhaps above all innovation, in relation to which the proposed european institute for technology can make an important contribution. our objective should be to make europe attractive for investment. i have repeatedly stressed to my colleagues in the european council and to the commission that europe is increasingly in competition not within itself but with other parts of the world, notably asia. the reality of this competition must give urgency as well as direction to the development and implementation of policies at european level. our second strategic objective should be to ensure that achieving competitiveness does not threaten the european social model, and that competitiveness and social inclusion are partners, not rivals. this is the key principle underpinning our own national system of social partnership. our experience of extensive and intensive social dialogue has delivered 18 consecutive years of economic growth, improved living standards and greater social inclusion. in our approach at european level, including where appropriate through legislation, we should reflect the principle that economic and social policies can and should be mutually reinforcing. we must, above all, ensure that solidarity and opportunity are at the heart of the union and must drive europe’s future. the test of europe’s credibility today is whether it can deliver policies which build up solidarity within the european union and secure opportunities for all our people. i also strongly believe that we need to give greater substance to the social dialogue at european level. at both european and national level, we must engage the social partners, in particular the trade unions, in a real debate on the reform of the european social model and on the modernisation of labour markets. our third strategic challenge is to confront the downsides of globalisation, including cross-border crime, human trafficking, illegal migration, and the scourge of illicit drugs that ruin so many lives. we know about the potential for pollution to trigger calamitous climate change. of course, the responsibility in many of these areas falls significantly on the member states. but as long as our climate and our criminals do not stop at the borders between our countries, we must work together to ensure all appropriate action at european level. fourth, europe must play its full role across the range of its external competences. i shall not dwell on this further because i have already highlighted in my introduction the increasingly important role which the union plays and is expected to play in the international arena. it is, of course, essential that europe is adequately funded, including in the cfsp area, for addressing its growing responsibilities in the western balkans, in our wider neighbourhood and further afield, especially towards the poorest who need our support and to whom europe should continue to strive to be a special friend. the fifth, and perhaps greatest strategic challenge is – i am sure you would agree – to connect europe better with its citizens. of course, this challenge is not unrelated to the other challenges. we can only communicate a positive message if we have a positive message to communicate. but we have to demonstrate clearly that europe is part of the solution to globalisation, not part of the problem. we have to show that the european social model remains at the heart of increased competitiveness. our people must not only be secure but also feel secure. we need to act, but we also need to explain what europe is doing and can do to provide security for our citizens. we have to bring home much more effectively to the public that, through our external policies, we are increasingly and effectively promoting their interests, their priorities and their values. i fully accept that a large part of the responsibility of explaining europe accurately and fairly falls at national level. it is certainly a priority for my government. respect for diversity can play a particularly important part in connecting the union with its citizens. i thank you, mr president, for announcing that today is the first day that irish will be used and that from 1 january 2007 it will become the 21st language of the european union. ní fhéadfadh aon rud meas na heorpa ar charachtar indibhidiúil a cuid ballstát a léiriú níos fearr ná an stádas feabhsaithe a bheas ag an ngaeilge ó 1 eanáir. tá éire an-bhuíoch den pharlaimint as bhur gcuid tacaíochta i dtabhairt na socruithe nua isteach. allow me, in conclusion, to say that we should not lose sight of the fact that at the heart of our europe, when it was founded half a century ago, was the determination to bring permanent peace ‘among peoples long divided by bloody conflicts’, as the first treaty put it. the union has been resoundingly successful in that aim within our borders. the union is also an increasingly important factor for stability beyond our borders. i would like to pay particular tribute to the fact that the european union has played a crucial role in relation to our peace process in northern ireland. the union has provided not just generous financial support, but also a context and an example. i would like to convey to you today the deep-felt appreciation of the irish people for parliament’s valued, consistent and continuing support for peace on the island of ireland. in the second half of the 21st century, another generation of europeans will be living with the consequences of the decisions we take. i hope that, when they cast an eye back to our generation of europeans, they will be able to conclude that we had the imagination, courage and intelligence to consolidate our unique union and to provide a solid, comprehensive and consensual basis for taking forward its achievements. it is an honour to be here, mr president, and i thank you. (applause)
thank you very much, taoiseach ahern. the speakers on behalf of the groups will now take the floor. before i give you the floor, i would like to point out that two of them - mr schulz and mr watson - have been re-elected as chairmen of their political groups today, and i congratulate them on that. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, mr. poettering, for taking the time. when i congratulated mr schulz and mr watson, i was not informed that mr cohn-bendit and mrs frassoni had also been elected co-chairs of their groups. i would ask them to allow me to add my congratulations.
prime-minister of ireland. mr president, i shall try to deal quickly with the issues. i want to thank everybody for their welcome – i did not detect that from the last speaker, but from everybody else anyway! (laughter)i want to thank mr poettering for his remarks. the european parliament’s participation in the igc during the irish presidency was extremely important and constructive. the european parliament was clearly very much part of it and it clearly should be involved in taking the process forward. i think that is what you requested, and you certainly have my support in that. i thank you for your remarks about the declaration in berlin. i support you. your issue about the reforms of part i and the values and getting ourselves ready for the challenges in the future are all things that i readily agree with. mr schulz spoke about the five priorities based on the future of europe and the ratification process. ireland would have preferred it if everyone had ratified it at the same time, as that would have resolved a lot of problems without all the debate. we have to remember that there are 16 or 17 countries that are committed to ratifying the constitution: the majority of the parties, particularly the three large parties in our parliament have clearly stated their support for it. we believe that there must be some clarity. unlike other countries, because of our written constitution, whatever happens we always have to have a referendum. we do not just want to be putting words out that we know will change in some format because whatever happens, it will be entered into our constitution. we have to have certainty in that, but there is certainly no fear of us having referendums. mr watson brought up the concerns of citizens and the global contract. the big issue for that is for countries to show their support. you mentioned the issues of jha being consistent with the treaties that are already there, dealing with issues of crime and the common foreign and security policy. the biggest way we can show the developing countries our support is through our commitment under the un to oda. that is what i try to practise, because you can talk all you like, but you have to be prepared to put your money into it. for us as a small country, getting to 0.7 per cent is the small matter of eur 1.5 billion! that is a lot in our budget, but we are moving towards that fast, and we are doing that to help not only our own people but also the less well-of in various parts of the world. i agree that if chancellor merkel can get the balance and substance right, it would mean amendments. we accept that and we can move forward. mr voggenhuber was right that a reflection of one and a half years has not brought us very far. i accept that point. however, neither have we gone back. we are here in a reflection period and we must find a way forward. not everyone will agree, but i and 17 or 18 countries believe in the balance and substance of the constitutional treaty, with some amendments if it means accommodating france and the netherlands – which we accept is the right thing to do. ultimately we will have to do that and get the institutional balance right and find a way forward. it is not just some theoretical pro-european issue, it is to make the functioning of europe correct for the future so that we can continue with our environmental and economic progress and our common foreign and security policy. that is why we negotiated a treaty. however, i accept your point: 13 months on is a long time, but there are still reasons for voting. we shall have to deal with those reasons. the reasons why we need a union that can continually cater for new members – now 27 and in a few years’ time possibly 30 – and our new neighbourhood policy were outlined in the nice and amsterdam treaties. we do not have the institutional changes and the balances that can cater for that. that was the whole project, and the european parliament was as strong an advocate for that as anyone. mrs zimmer asked about a common eu identity and social dialogue. from the time i entered political life in the 1972 referendum in ireland i have always believed that social dialogue was absolutely essential to ireland’s future. ireland has succeeded and no longer has the high unemployment of 17 or 18% of the past, when the annual emigration equalled the entire labour market growth of the country; when our exports were in decline and economic growth was negative; when we had no money for the less well off in our society. that was when we did not have social dialogue. economic performance and dealing with the agenda on competitiveness and social policy are mutual friends and they can work in harmony – they are not exclusive policies. it is when they work together. with respect, i never quite understand when people are arguing the issue on europe why we always forget all the positives. that applies to members of the european council – i would accept that criticism – and i think it applies to members of the european parliament. however, look at what has been achieved because of the strength of europe. look at the equality agenda. look at the health and safety agenda. look at the welfare agenda. look at the mobility of workers. would any of these have been here if this institution had not been here, if europe had not been here? not a hope in hell! europe has achieved this. so to talk against your own achievements is never a good idea, in my view. europe has achieved all these things and the chance of our harmonising, getting stronger environmental laws, more cooperation and helping less developed countries – all these are european policies that never would have happened otherwise. europe has pulled ireland and other countries up and it has applied pressure, it has fined and prosecuted people. however, the fact is that the citizens have gained from every one of those issues. i would say to my good colleague, mrs sinnott, that the reason we have progressive disabilities legislation, the reason that we are putting huge resources into disability, the reason we have an environmental protection agency, the reason we have far greater health policy, the reason we are able to support these things, is not because there is any difference between the 1937 constitution – which treasures all the people and children of ireland equally – and what we have today. it is because we have been able to make progress because europe has progressed. i think these are great issues. i am delighted to see mr allister here. his party has moved forward progressively. it has moved away from the past, even if not all of its members have, including himself. however, we are moving on, we are making progress. i will deal with my electorate and i wish you well in your february election, too. (applause)
thank you very much. it is inevitable that our debates will always have a national component. the following speakers have the floor.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, on 1 january next romania will be part of the european union. this is a historic event for romania and for the whole union. the fifth enlargement, which the epp-ed group has always supported, is now complete. these are moments of good fortune, of congratulations to the romanian people, to their authorities and also to the european commission, which has played an irreplaceable role in monitoring and stimulating the process. the road has certainly not been easy. there have been many reforms. i remember that when i started following the process on behalf of my group two and a half years ago, there were still doubts about whether romania could join in 2007. the reports which this parliament has regularly adopted show the progress romania has made over the years. however, some work still needs to be completed if the country is to reap the full benefits of integration, as the moscovici report, which we will be adopting tomorrow, points out. today we must pay tribute to well-known protagonists of this reform: the minister for justice, mrs macovei, the minister for the interior, mr blaga, or mrs boagiu, the minister for european affairs, and other prominent political leaders. mr president, i was in romania a few days ago. i know that the romanian people are very interested in accession, which is so close. in craiova, ploiesti and filiasi i was able to see the interest of romanians in accession and the impact that integration will have on their daily lives. i am sure that the impact will be beneficial, as it was for my country, spain. the enlargement process is also a positive outcome for the european union, because of its political and economic consequences, because it promotes and consolidates freedom and extends prosperity in its immediate environment through what has been called the transformative power of the union. in addition, enlargements increase europe's role in the world. as the report we are going to adopt tomorrow says, romania's accession will strengthen the political and cultural dimension of the union. it is the birthplace of brancusi, ionesco, tristan tzara, enescu, intellectuals and artists who led the european avant-garde. my country, spain, has many longstanding links with romania, as is shown by the large number of romanians living and working in spain today. i am therefore also a spaniard and i welcome the historic fact of romania's accession.
mr president, i do not want to adopt the view of those who will see the state of romania in official cars with tinted windows. so i will read you a letter chosen at random from those we received from children in romanian orphanages who were unable to find romanian adoptive parents and who will therefore remain in these orphanages because of lack of resources. "why", write marianne, 9 1/2, and catalin, 6 1/2, "do not our parents come and pick us up? we'd rather die than wait any longer. we don't want to eat anymore because it's no use". i have half a dozen like that i'll spare you from reading. why did i read that letter? because there are two points of view. i am one of those people, and i support the report by mr moscovici, who says that a large majority is absolutely necessary for romania and bulgaria to join the union. it is a continental destiny that we need and the opposite reasoning does not hold. but let's lower the tinted windows of our cars. in view of the restrictions which mark this report, and which the rapporteur has also put forward with compromise amendments, i therefore call for support for the report, including its article 16, which suggests that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs monitor developments in the situation concerning intercountry adoption. i also call on my colleagues to support amendments nos 1 and 2, which remind romania - and indeed the union, commissioner - of its obligations under the united nations charter and the hague convention. despite these restrictions, which will be the work of our vigilance and our help, because in a family we help our brothers and sisters who are in difficulty, i am glad to see these countries finally joining the european union camp after 70 years of isolation, 70 years in which we have looked, we have developed feelings of compassion, but we have done nothing. it is the romanian people who have won their freedom and their right to join us today.
mr president, first i should like to say that my group and i are in favour of the accession of romania and bulgaria. however, i should like to focus on the specific problem of the situation of minorities, especially the macedonian minority in bulgaria. at this moment there is a political party, omo ilinden pirin, that has not been legalised by the bulgarian state because several difficulties have hampered the process of legalisation. we think that the opportunity to be represented and to organise political parties and associations is one of the main aspects of fulfilling democracy. respect for minorities is one of the main issues as regards fulfilling the copenhagen criteria. we have to put it forward, and we have to pay attention to this, not because we are against bulgaria, but that is our point of view all around europe in all the member states and all the states with accession to europe and all around the countries, because the rights of minorities have to be upheld according to these criteria.
opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, the committee on women's rights and gender equality welcomes all the efforts made by parliament to ensure that this specific instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights is being debated in this house today. within the important exercise of simplifying instruments and procedures in the field of external action, we think it is very important to have a tool whose main objective is to support civil society, to support those people who work to achieve a more dignified life for all in democracy. in this context, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to emphasize the role of women as protagonists in the defence of fundamental rights. we in our committee have worked to ensure that, through this instrument, objectives and measures are supported which promote the rights of women and children, gender equality at international level and the fight against the discrimination which thousands of women suffer daily. the adoption of this regulation at first reading, so that it can come into force in 2007, would be good news for us, if we also take into account that 2007 has been officially designated as the european year of equal opportunities for all.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, what we are discussing here today is, for thousands of people who risk their lives in defence of freedom and human rights, fundamental and even vital. the european instrument for democracy and human rights is above all an achievement of this parliament. it wasn't easy to get it. we have always maintained that if a foreign policy is to truly reflect the values of the european union, it must explicitly work for the human rights that we all claim to defend. we now have it; we have a precious tool in the hands of human rights defenders and all those who work for democracy, fundamental freedoms and justice. we already have our instrument; it contains a sufficiently broad definition of the actors who can benefit from it - as hélène flautre has explained - so that a battle that would prolong the implementation of this instrument, frustrating many expectations and hopes, should not be justified. we socialists would also have preferred a clear inclusion of the concept of 'conflict prevention', because it is a precondition for peace and democratic development. however, in the interests of agreement and the need to approve the proposal, we accept this consensus reached with the commission and the council. my group will not therefore table amendments. i expect the same degree of responsibility from the epp-ed group. let us not disappoint the main players in this instrument.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health and safety of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. this is a fundamental issue within the lisbon strategy, because if we are to be a knowledge-based, dynamic and competitive economy, research, technological development and innovation are undoubtedly the main tools for promoting growth, employment and competitiveness. our main objective has been to respond to the major challenges that science, technology and innovation have to face, in order to be able to reduce the gap that separates us from our competitors. our work has not been without difficulties, especially after the agreement on the financial perspective, which reduced our initial economic horizon. but i think today, on the whole, we can feel satisfied. as rapporteur for the specific programme 'cooperation', i would like to thank the alternative rapporteurs and all our colleagues for their contributions, which have been instrumental in the preparation of this report. the specific programme 'cooperation', with a budget of eur 32.5 billion for the next seven years, represents 65% of the total budget of the seventh framework programme, a significant increase on the previous framework programme. this is the world's largest programme of international cooperation in r & d. the programme aims to achieve a leading position for the european union in strategic scientific and technological fields by supporting cooperation between universities, research centres, businesses and institutions, both within the european union and with third countries. in this respect, the proposal from the committee on industry, research and energy covers ten major priority themes which represent a significant degree of continuity with the sixth framework programme, although it does propose improvements in the approaches which - we are convinced of this - will facilitate better access to the programmes for research groups. the final text adopted by the committee on industry, research and energy and which we are bringing to this house for final approval is a very important one. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. it includes powerful tools to stimulate private investment in research, but calls for greater parliamentary control over the entire implementation of the programme. it also extends and emphasises certain areas of research which were absent or not sufficiently represented in the initial proposal and it underlines a number of horizontal structural aspects of the programme which, in our view, are fundamental. in this connection, i would like to stress that our proposal represents a considerable step forward in the articulation of mechanisms to ensure the participation of smes in all the actions of the programme. a minimum target of 15% of the total budget has been set for their participation and the maximum contribution of all community institutions, including the european investment bank, has been sought in the financing of projects involving their participation. our proposal enshrines the principle of scientific and technological cohesion as one of the objectives of the programme and points out the need to seek maximum complementarity and synergy with other national and regional european funds. mechanisms are required to establish joint approaches to scientific and technological issues of interest to more than one theme and also mechanisms to address complex issues of thematic priorities where a purely unidisciplinary approach is not sufficient to produce relevant scientific breakthroughs. many aspects of joint technology initiatives have been improved following the passage of the specific programme 'cooperation' by this parliament. these new instruments for technical and financial management and participation in the specific programme 'cooperation' required mechanisms to ensure compliance with the criteria laid down for their establishment and transparency in the choice of priorities; they also required sound and effective management. the report makes proposals to move this forward. i will not go into detail on each of the thematic priorities - there is a lot of work that has been done - but i would like to conclude by saying that the rapporteur who is speaking to you is among those who support continuing to fund research on supernumerary human embryos in their early stages of development, because of their importance for advancing infertility treatments and understanding the causes of congenital and degenerative diseases, and also for finding alternative strategies to animal testing. ladies and gentlemen, with our work over many months we have tried to contribute to answering some of the main problems of our science and technology. i believe that the result, which is the result of the greatest possible consensus, can be described as satisfactory, and i would like to thank all my colleagues again for their contributions, as well as the european commission and, above all, commissioner potočnik, who is here, for his constant help and cooperation.
the rapporteur. - thank you, mr president. i thank mr potočnik for his open and cooperative attitude; i thank mr buzek and all the other alternate rapporteurs. we are all part of the family of the seventh framework programme, and in this family there has been a long, hard birth, with few sanitary facilities, but the baby has been born healthy, although a little underweight. because when will we realise that european research is even more important than agricultural subsidies and the building of motorways? it is not a rhetorical question; we must ask ourselves coldly what the priority is for the future of europe, this europe which wants but cannot. we have set out some challenges with this framework programme and we have largely covered them. we have made some progress in opening up science, in achieving the maximum transfer of scientific knowledge and technical information and in supporting all incentives that encourage the transfer of technology, so that companies, civil society and universities can develop bridges between research and the necessary economic and technological renewal in today's european societies, thanks to this communication and thanks to the rules on the mandatory publication of results, the promotion of free software or the obligation, for example, to promote interoperability; we have made some progress, but we must continue to make progress. we also have to ask ourselves whether we are going to do science for and for people, because the opinions of researchers have to be in line with those of those who are not necessarily experts. in this connection, we should express our satisfaction at the support and important work of the science and society section of this programme, the financial reinforcement of this area and the opening up of the programme to civil society organisations. i also wonder whether small is beautiful in european science, because we all talk about smes, but is that empty rhetoric or a firm commitment? smes create the majority of stable employment and are a source of economic stability. the support for initiatives such as the creation of small business clusters within the technology platforms is very commendable; it is very important that we have established a 15% framework for small businesses within all programmes. it is a challenge we must meet; let us see if we are up to our rhetoric. will there be less bureaucracy and more transparency in this programme? will there be clear, understandable public access to the information that must be guaranteed for all evaluation and financing processes of european union projects? it is time for the european commission to reduce the costly administrative procedures, which marginalise small research groups and small businesses and ngos, which are too small to cope with them. we demand that they be simplified now. no more excuses, it's time to deliver. this framework programme has also meant a 'back to the basics' and so with the establishment of the european research council we will have in this framework programme strong public support for basic research with medium and long-term social and environmental objectives, led by renowned scientists who will defend their autonomy. we must ensure that this autonomy is respected by all, both by parliament and by the commission. as greens, we wonder whether we will have, in the face of the energy crisis, the climate science we need. it is very positive that there is financial support for renewable energy and energy efficiency and that it has been increased by 250%, but at the same time we regret that it is still only one third of what nuclear research as a whole receives. we are also pleased that, in relation to the social sciences, which are also a science, there is a strong commitment in this programme to socioeconomic research and multidisciplinary research. overall, we see this programme as positive; working together will put the european union in the direction we need to go for longer and happier lives and a greater role for europe in the world.
mr president, european research has gradually given more space to issues relating to the environment and man and culture, thus giving importance to their scenarios and to their preservation and survival. the attention paid to historical and cultural heritage is an example of this, and i thank those who have supported it in the commission. the same applies to the inclusion in the programme of the entertainment and multimedia industries, information technologies and social sciences, as well as the novelty of introducing research related to intelligence and the fight against terrorism. i welcome the agreements on research involving embryonic cells: we have set clear limits to respect all sensitivities, the financing of human cloning, human cloning or the creation of embryos for research and their destruction has been prohibited, always with the control of regional, national and international bodies. when i talk to patients and their families, i am moved by their ability to embrace hope. they know they may not be able to enjoy the solutions, but they feel obligated to defend that ray of hope for new patients; i'm not going to be the one to take it away. research has always been a feature of european culture, says steiner, the great european researcher. creativity and research are our identity.
the next item is the commission statement on aids.
mr president, in the fight against hiv/aids we are indeed still far from victory; however, victory is possible simply with political will. the numbers are clear: the vast majority of new infections occur in developing countries, making hiv one of the main factors currently holding back progress in thousands of towns and communities. this is a global emergency, both from the health, social and economic point of view. today we know what the problem is and we know how to prevent it and how to treat it. but this requires resources, political responsibility, responsibility of the economic sectors and social and cultural responsibility. among other measures, for example, it is necessary to ensure universal access to essential medicines, something which is not yet possible today because of the greed of certain economic sectors, especially the pharmaceutical industry, which has no scruples in this matter, thus becoming clear co-responsible for a mass murder on a global scale. in addition, certain discourses by ultraconservative sectors against sexual and reproductive health are also responsible for this situation. to oppose today, for example, with the information we have, that everyone, and especially younger people, have proper sex education is, no matter how you look at it, an attack on life and dignity and, of course, immorality. and so, one more year, it is time to demand action, commitment and, above all, that promises be kept.
member of the commission. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the discussion, for it has shed light on a serious, worldwide problem from many angles. i think i can say that there were no objections to the drafting of the declaration, to the way it defines the areas of action and the objectives to be achieved, which would have undermined the value of this document as a more general strategy in this field. i would like to emphasize the basic idea that the hiv/aids pandemic is a pandemic that can only be managed by a combined approach, a holistic approach that simultaneously puts in place poverty reduction, prevention mechanisms in terms of awareness, education and rational behavior, screening and tracing of the sick, including appropriate treatment. i think i can take the view that we cannot consider the results so far as a success. but we cannot view them as empty words either, for they are things that have happened and are not meaningless. we talked about the fund, the funding is clear. the european union is providing substantial funding for a number of projects in all countries and some success has been achieved. the trips agreement was mentioned. since 2006, it has been possible to produce drugs much cheaper. i mentioned that at some point, the price dropped by as much as 98%. yes, progress is being made, but it's just not a success. there is no doubt that our efforts must be intensified. let me just touch on two things that were specific and that i think need some response. it was mentioned, and i don't know if i understood it correctly, that there are no appropriate centers in the new countries to monitor this epidemic problem. it's not real. there are centers everywhere. it is clear that we can compare their quality and find that some are better and others are worse, but there are not many options for direct control within the european treaty, but to say that these centres do not exist is not true. another problem mentioned was the financing of the aids fund, where, as member states were not providing anything in 2007, the commission responded by restructuring the appropriations. i think one can have a debate about whether the restructuring was the best thing to do, whether one can think about some other considerations, but i think the basic idea of restructuring it was right, because the aids problem is a problem of enormous scale. however, i think that if member states have once committed themselves to making certain contributions which are insignificant in comparison with their gross domestic product, they should honour that commitment. the total is very significant, but taken together, in relation to gross domestic product, it is an amount that can be released under national budgets. it is up to us to increase the pressure and change this unacceptable situation, because there is no other way to justify and defend it in my opinion. let me also stress the importance of equal opportunities, because it is one of the things that undoubtedly contributes significantly to the management and improvement of this phenomenon. ladies and gentlemen, it is the peculiar way of the human soul to push some things into the background and put others in the foreground. when i look at the avian flu, which i certainly don't underestimate, and the attention that's been given to it, and when i compare the scale of this threat to what's really happening with hiv/aids, it's very clear that the problem that we're talking about is much more significant, and unfortunately we're not paying much more attention to it. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate that took place. i think it was a debate that will allow us to move forward on this path. it is clear and necessary to recognise that, however much we may try, the problem is global and our possibilities for progress are limited, but nevertheless - and the debate has made this clear - it is our duty to exploit them to our limits.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m.
the next item is the report by elizabeth lynne, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the situation of people with disabilities in the enlarged european union: european action plan 2006-2007 (2006/2105 (ini)).
madam president, commissioner špidla, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for this house, and that is why i want to congratulate mrs lynne on her report, because we are taking another step in building the europe of opportunities for which we are working. today we will adopt with broad agreement new measures to advance equal opportunities for people suffering from some form of disability. i believe that this new european action plan 2006-2007 is a great challenge to eliminate all forms of discrimination and also addresses the needs of people with disabilities throughout europe. i will highlight a number of points. firstly, it seeks to establish a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation, not only in education and access, but also in promotion and continuing training. secondly, it certainly improves the conditions and rights of disabled passengers in the use of air, sea and land transport. but i must warn - and i did so in the report - against creating a new and hitherto non-existent barrier: the economic barrier. the compulsory accompaniment of disabled people is a positive factor in improving the quality of their travel, but it is not the case that the disabled person has to pay for the ticket of the person accompanying him, because in that case these people would have to pay for two tickets, while the rest of us would only pay for one. thirdly, improving access to new technologies. new technologies could, without a doubt, break down many barriers for people with disabilities, provided we achieve universal access to them and provided that technological advances take these people into account from the outset in their designs. fourthly, we need to have integrated and coordinated responses to the disability of children and of people already discriminated against, such as women and the elderly. and finally, the prevention of occupational hazards. we have made a great deal of effort to reach an agreement on occupational hazards, which has already been tabled in this house, but which has not yet been accepted by the commission - and i remind you, mr špidla - and in which special attention will have to be paid to the risks that people may suffer in the workplace. i would also like to point out the important role played by disabled people's associations. i certainly think that this is a great challenge and a new step forward in achieving the europe of opportunity that we are all committed to.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing a report which will be voted on this morning and which in turn summarises a set of reports presented by the commission with a fundamental and very well defined objective, which is none other than to establish a set of measures which will make it possible to develop a society, an economy, based on knowledge in europe, which, in the end, is the fundamental instrument for creating jobs and for generating growth and therefore for generating prosperity for all europeans. in this report, as in other expert reports, such as the aho report, which is an extraordinarily complete and precise report on the same subjects, or other previous reports by the commission, we find ourselves in a situation where we have a fairly good diagnosis - i would say - of where we are, why we are in this situation and what we need. there is probably no area in which we have such precise knowledge as this to be able to drive europe's growth. the diagnosis is there, the diagnosis is there and the remedies are there. we all know that to drive forward a knowledgebased society, we need to drive forward innovation. we all know that we must promote training which enables people to adapt to all these changing times in employment and thus to be able to retrain and find a new form of work. we all know that innovation is necessary if the social welfare system is to continue to respond to citizens in health, education and so on. we all know that companies also need a friendly framework, a framework that helps them, that encourages them to develop innovation and that prevents them from encountering bureaucratic problems, difficulties in a whole series of areas of action. it is not a question of going into detail about each and every aspect of the report, because they are there and you all know them; i would like to take this opportunity to stress as much as i can the need to stop, for once, talking, talking and talking and to give very attractive titles to reports and analyses, while there is still a certain paralysis in action in the national states. the step taken with the 25 national reform programmes is important, but i think that a very strong assessment of the progress made in these national programmes should be particularly emphasized. as time goes on, we're missing more of the train. when the lisbon agenda was defined, there was an expectation of development. when we are halfway through the development of the lisbon agenda, the european average - naturally some countries are in one situation and others in another - was further behind than it was when the lisbon agenda was defined. and we may find that in 2010 we have indeed continued to be behind and have therefore been accumulating backwardness. i really believe that if we were to hire an external auditor, he would be impressed by how good the diagnosis is, how good the remedies and the solutions are, and that, despite this, the paralysis in the application of those remedies is so complete. societies, like life itself, are made of collaboration between different generations. you're carrying a witness; it's like a relay race, but relayed in the background. many europeans are growing up and being born today. others, like those here, will be, in the not too distant future, retired. and we all need a society in which europe can continue to have the competitive capacity, the leadership and the future it has had in previous periods, because there were europeans who decided, with their heart and soul, to leave the best legacy for the future of their country and for the future, in this case, of all the countries that make up european society. so that is our responsibility and we have to put our heart and soul into it.
i would like to refer to the directive on the marketing of pyrotechnic articles. i should like to begin by saying that i voted in favour of this because we have really improved the overall safety aspects, the environmental aspects, the aspects relating to the health of people and also the interests of european companies. but i think we have missed a good opportunity to make a clear distinction between pyrotechnic devices, used in public celebrations or shows, in theatres, cinemas and so on, and percussion pistons, which are used in toys, in car airbags or even in seat belts. i think we have drafted a text which creates a little confusion in this respect. i hope that this can be improved in the future; for the moment i have voted in favour, although i do not consider the text to be fully satisfactory.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 30 november 2006.
the minutes of the sitting of thursday 30 november 2006 have been distributed. is there any comment?
mr van den berg, i am sorry, but i do not see the connection between what you are saying and the minutes. are you suggesting any amendments to the minutes?
you have made a bit of parliamentary filibusterism, but, in any case, it is done, there is no way around it. it'll be on the record, of course. (the minutes were approved)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, drawn up in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 7 december 2006. let's examine the proposed amendments. - tuesday:
without setting any precedent, i must say that the french version is correct.
no, by precedent i meant that we should agree with the french version. that's what i meant when i said "without precedent". - thursday:as regards the debates on cases of violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats calls for the issue 'release of imprisoned health workers in libya' to be replaced by 'myanmar'. does the group wish to explain its proposal? that doesn't seem to be the case. mr swoboda, do you wish to speak for or against?
i have not quite understood whether you were speaking for or against, but in any case we shall proceed to the vote. (parliament adopted the proposal) 'the order of business is as follows:
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. there are too many colleagues on the list, not everyone will be able to speak. i shall have to be strict in my use of time and remind you that those members who have spoken at two or one of the previous partsession will not have priority; those who have not spoken at either the part-session of 13 november or the part-session of 29 november will have it.
i will pass on your views to mr barroso, mr de rossa, so that he can act as he sees fit.
i see the irish bench is waking up.
thank you very much. i think it was perfectly clear during an interesting debate in ireland, which you were unable to attend, probably for very important reasons, namely at the european forum on ireland, where i had the opportunity to answer questions similar to yours. i think that was very clear and that all the colleagues present understood it, but it is already well known that it is very difficult to make someone understand who does not want to understand. i have said on behalf of the european parliament to the european council on several occasions that all countries should ratify the treaty. this is the position of the european parliament: to ask all governments to submit the treaty for ratification. this is also, to my knowledge, the position of your group, often explained by its leader. and that, and only that, is what i have said: that all countries must submit the treaty for ratification. do you still have any doubts, mrs doyle?
mr president, on 2 july, that is more than five months ago, the presidential elections were held in mexico. the winner, as you all know, was felipe calderón, current mexican president. since the elections, the candidate of the left opposition, lópez obrador, has not recognized nor assumed his defeat and, what is worse, the left has tried to sabotage the inauguration of president calderón and continues to threaten the legal and right government and instigate riots, demonstrations and sabotages against it. i therefore want to denounce this anti-democratic attitude of the left led by mr lópez obrador and i also want to denounce this unprecedented and unjustifiable boycott carried out by the left in mexico. the european institutions cannot look the other way and especially this european parliament must support the legitimate government of president calderón in mexico. we must take initiatives from this parliament to ensure that democracy is respected in mexico and that the left recognizes its defeat and makes a democratic and constructive opposition and not an anti-democratic opposition.
well, that's the last word and it's also the last time i'll have the honor of presiding over a one-minute intervention shift. that is why we have been more generous in our use of time today, and i ask the commission and the council to understand this. i thank you for your patience, but in the last few minutes of the party the bar is free, and i want to take this opportunity to apologise to those who on other occasions have not been able to use the floor as they would have liked. this closes this spot.
the following is the joint debate on- recommendation for second reading, committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the common position with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals and chemical preparations (reach), establishing the european chemicals agency, amending directive 1999/45/ec of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council regulation (eec) no 793/93 and commission regulation (ec) no 1488/94 and council directive 76/769/eec and commission directives 91/155/eec, 93/67/eec, 93/105/eec and 2000/21/ec on the common position with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals and chemical preparations (reach) (proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council) (com (2003) 0253 - c4-0256/2006), as adapted to the council regulation (ec) no 67/548/ec) on the classification and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations, as regards the classification and labelling of chemicals, adopted by council regulation (ec) no 67/5253/2006/ec (proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and council) (direc directive 2003/06/54/535/ec), as amending regulation (direc) and council regulation (directives 2003/56/ec) on the classification and the preparations of chemicals and chemical substances and substances and substances (eec), as regards the second reading of the european parliament and the european union, and the european union (eec)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i have the impression that the quarrels between members have been reduced to a minimum on this point, especially since the epp-ed group withdrew its amendment no 57. i think that mrs fourtou and the services of the commission's directorate-general for taxation have done a magnificent job and have explained in a very clear way a subject which seemed complex, but we have a few amendments left which the committee on the internal market and consumer protection insists on putting forward. i think that the first group of amendments does not present any difficulties, because it is simply a matter of adapting the comitology proposals to the new comitology agreement between parliament and the other institutions. with regard to the other amendments, there are still some unresolved issues, such as the question of customs representatives. at least a significant number of members of this house believe that customs activities require a certain degree of professional dedication and cannot be replaced by abstract freedom to carry out customs activities. there are too many personal considerations, including security considerations, which make this a legitimate profession, which must be maintained and not be eliminated for the sake of a theory of liberalization which does not correspond to reality. i also find the amendments tabled by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the agreed economic operators and also, and above all for consumers, the free electronic customs clearance and the 24-hour availability of these services to be quite positive. i think it would be good to simplify customs procedures, which are often quite complex and make the internal market difficult. my view - the view of the socialist group - is therefore in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i think mr audy has done very well in raising the issue of comitology, but i think that, in accordance with the reports we have received from the legal services, there is no other solution than that adopted by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and that this is not a problem of confrontation between committees, but that, among all of us, taking into account the current reality, we adjust to this situation. i do not think there will be any problems between the two committees. in conclusion, mr president, we agree with mrs fourtou's report; i think that an agreement could be reached very soon between the three institutions to approve the two reports, and we hope that this parliament will approve the amendments of the committee on economic and monetary affairs without great difficulty.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i should like to thank members for their efforts to speed up the discussion on this banana proposal, and express special thanks to mr fruteau, who delivered an excellent report within a very tight time frame. i am convinced that we all have an interest in approving the banana proposal before the end of the year, to give the producers a clear framework within which to operate in the future and also, of course, to achieve budget stability; but also to reassure the banana producing regions that they can count on the tangible solidarity of the european union. bananas are very important for the social and economic viability of our outermost regions. they provide revenue to more than 15 000 holdings and jobs to some 24 000 farmers. those regions face very specific handicaps and the treaty itself grants them a specific status, in article 299. they are, in all respects, part of the european union and have every right to enjoy the benefits of european union policy. the banana reform is the practical expression of our commitment to confirm solidarity within the union. i am very happy that the european parliament agrees with the commission on the need to reform the current banana aid scheme and to try to bring it into line with our common agricultural policy. a crucial consideration is the budgetary unpredictability of the current expenditures within the banana sector. i am delighted that the european parliament agrees on the very substance of the proposal, namely, the choice of the posei solution, which represents quite a number of different advantages. first of all, it is consistent with the cap reform; it is a very flexible tool for member states and for the regions in question; it permits member states to give additional financing; and, last but not least, it gives predictability from a financial point of view. another important point on which you agree with the commission’s proposal regards the budget, which is based on the average support granted over the period 2000-2002, and a marginal assurance has been added to take into account the variability of the banana market. the recent change in the import arrangements and a possible agreement with banana-producing third countries have also been taken into account. you have requested that the commission should submit a specific report on posei in 2009, if the livelihoods of banana producers, in particular, were to deteriorate following a change in the external regime. as a matter of fact, our proposal already focuses on, or foresees, the submission of a report on the whole posei regime in 2009, and that will include the banana sector. let us not forget that the banana sector represents more than 50% of the agricultural revenue in some producing regions. it goes without saying that this report will be submitted sooner in the event of a deterioration of livelihood in the outermost regions. as concerns crete, cyprus and the algarve, we should keep in mind that banana production involves less than 400 hectares and some 300 holdings overall. that hardly justifies a derogation from the general principle that allows farmers the freedom to choose their crops according to the market and the best advantage they can derive from their production. i am looking forward to the discussion with you tonight. again, thank you for being so quick in your action on this issue.
opinion of the committee on budgets. - mr president, the committee on budgets has unanimously adopted its opinion on the report on the reform of the council's rules of procedure and is also in full agreement with the substance of the proposal for that reform. our only complaints - as the commissioner herself has explained - are that we have had little time to examine the proposal, since we had to opt for the urgency procedure. in any case, from the point of view of the committee on budgets, the only important thing is to accept the general financing mechanism proposed and, at the same time, to verify that the proposal is in fact fully in line with the court of auditors' report on the sound financial management of the common organization of the market in bananas. our commission simply proposes a generic amendment, which we propose for all those 'non-co-decision' programmes, whereby we ask that the general financial framework which we have approved for the period 2007-2013 be respected. and at the same time, to emphasize even more the involvement of parliament and taking advantage of the fact that the consultation procedure is chosen, we want the aid to banana producers to be subject to the control of this house through the annual budgetary procedure. but on the whole the proposal is a good one and it is of great help to all those peripheral european regions which have major problems with competition from products from third countries.
i would like to thank mr fruteau for the excellent work he has done in drawing up his report and for his willingness to reach a consensus. i would also like to thank the commissioner for her reform proposal, which has generally been accepted by the sector and this parliament. i hope that now, with this new regulation, the controversy that has arisen in the world trade organisation will be put to an end once and for all, and i therefore ask that, despite the new pressures from some latin american country, the tariff of 176 euros per tonne, which entered into force on 1 january, after the agreement reached in hong kong, be defended and maintained at least, in order to give some stability to the european banana sector. the outermost regions, which are the main banana producers in the european union, are extremely dependent on this product and therefore any changes in their system, and especially in the external system, must be taken into account. i therefore find it incomprehensible that the council of ministers is debating the proposed reference period, which has resulted in a budget of eur 280 million per year. i must stress that this reference period must be the same as that which has been applied to the other reforms of the cmo and, consequently, no one would understand an exception to the rule laid down so far, nor a budgetary haggling, when 98% of this amount is precisely intended for the outermost regions. i would also like to refer, because of its importance, to another of the requests in the report, that of continuing the system of producer organizations, with the aim of maintaining the concentration of community supply, which has been one of the main successes of the banana cmo. the commission's departure would only worsen the disadvantageous position of community producers vis-à-vis imports from third countries.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the commission has made a great effort to adapt the internal banana regime to changing circumstances. i think we should congratulate the commission on this effort, which will essentially enable the community banana producers to survive in very difficult conditions. as my colleague mr fruteau, the rapporteur for this report, has pointed out, there is concern about the future, should there be a change in the common organization of the market in bananas abroad. the commissioner has referred to certain guarantees regarding the follow-up of the matter by the commission itself, but as a member of parliament i feel obliged to recall here that concern which we have and which is reflected in certain amendments which have been put forward in the fruteau report and which i hope will be adopted by parliament tomorrow. i think, mr president, that parliament will be able to approve this report tomorrow and probably some of the fundamental amendments, but the most important thing - i repeat - is that we can count on the commission to continue to protect the banana sector in the future.
mr president, this debate is important because we are about to adopt the instrument which will serve as the legal basis for using the resources which the european union devotes to development cooperation and humanitarian action. and while the financial perspectives for the period 2007-13 reduce the union's capacity to act in almost all areas, paradoxically the money we will have for our solidarity with the third world is not decreasing, but is increasing discreetly. this debate brings to a satisfactory close a process which has been exceptionally long, after having had to overcome serious difficulties. but the instrument we are going to adopt has the merit of reaching the house by consensus between parliament, the commission and the council. the search for such a consensus explains the unusual length of the process. the challenge was complex, since it was a question of condensing into a single legal instrument the more than 15 instruments which had previously been in force and which had become the basis for our development cooperation activities. it was a question of rationalizing this task and parliament agreed with that. the commission's initial proposals, on the other hand, had to be rejected when, in the interests of supposedly greater efficiency, the house's role was limited, that is, democracy was limited. parliament could not pass through that and its committee on development acted with a responsibility of which we can be proud. it was not, as some have suggested, a question of promoting the role of the committee, but of maintaining and increasing the role of parliament, that is, the democratic responsibility of our house, in a matter of political and budgetary importance. many of us have had to deal with totalitarian powers, which justified their authoritarianism by claiming that democracy complicated procedures and made management less efficient. we all know, however, how far this was a fallacy and that there is no effectiveness outside democratic norms, both when decisions are taken and when the executive is controlled in the actions themselves. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. we should thank the british, austrian and finnish presidencies for their understanding of our positions and also the commission for seeking ways of understanding parliament's demands. the text of the instrument is consistent with the european consensus on development and with the various strategies we have adopted, in particular the european strategy for the development of africa. it is also consistent with the text of the constitution, which makes solidarity with the countries of the south a constitutional priority of the european union. my concern is that, having consolidated parliament's powers, we will now have to assume the responsibilities that the instrument confers on us, and that will require a lot of work on the part of the house, its committee on development, its staff, which will have to grow, if we are to be in a position to take on the work, and above all the parliamentary groups, whose obligations will be increased by having to intervene in the strategy papers of each country with which the european union cooperates in its development, and in the monitoring of the programmes that are being approved. we should not be made to feel ridiculous by not being able to fulfil the obligation which we have so hard to wrest from the community's institutional partners.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to congratulate and thank the delegation from parliament which took part in the conciliation committee on 17 october. i would like to thank in particular mrs roth-behrendt, who chaired the parliamentary delegation, and mrs klaß, the rapporteur, for the excellent work they have done and for the result they have achieved. the discussions in the conciliation committee were constructive. as mrs klaß has already said, parliament has achieved positive results on a number of important issues, in particular on the crucial issues of preventing groundwater degradation and establishing quality standards for groundwater. i am sure that parliament will welcome the good results achieved by its delegation. the european commission supports the text drawn up by the conciliation committee.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs klaß and the other members on their efforts in the preparation of this report, the result of which i consider to be positive, thanks to the work of this house, which has greatly improved it, to the efforts made by the commission to help us, and also, ultimately, to the understanding of the council in the conciliation committee. groundwater supplies around 65% of all drinking water in europe. the fact that we have achieved the definition of deterioration and that precaution and prevention are now considered as a principle is really a very positive thing. in order to protect the environment as a whole and human health in particular, it is necessary to prevent and reduce the harmful concentration of harmful pollutants in groundwater, and i think we are on the right track with the drafting of this directive. the quality of water and, consequently, the health of humans are threatened by the presence of high concentrations of nitrates, pesticides, heavy metals, hydrocarbons and a long list of pollutants. i am therefore particularly pleased with the agreement we have reached with the council, which will make it possible to implement a whole series of rules to prevent pollution and protect groundwater. these rules will oblige the member states to prevent or limit the entry of dangerous substances into groundwater, and in this area i also think it is very important to take account of the different hydrogeological conditions in the different regions of europe, because soil that is continually inundated is not the same as dry soil, which suffers from other problems. i would also like to stress the possibility for member states to establish protection perimeters of the size that the general basin management body, or another competent national body, deems necessary to protect the drinking water supply. i think this is one of the most important elements that has been introduced. finally, i would ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this report and i hope that the member states will implement these measures as soon as possible, in order to preserve the environment and protect human health, and to move towards that sustainable europe which we all want.
i would like to welcome to the official gallery a delegation from the afghan parliament led by the president of the national assembly of afghanistan, mr mohammad yonus qanoni. (applause) mr mohammad yonus qanoni is accompanied by four other members. tomorrow i shall have the pleasure of meeting personally with this delegation, which has already had an exchange of views with the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on development. we warmly welcome you and invite you to remain in the gallery to attend the presentation of the sakharov prize to mr milinkievich and, later, the important debate on the annual report of the european union on human rights.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes) on the agenda we begin with the proposals for decisions on the appointment of new commissioners put forward by bulgaria and romania respectively. i have the floor, on behalf of the commission, to speak mr barroso, its president.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the appointment of the new commissioner, proposed by the republic of bulgaria, mrs meglena kuneva. the vote will be taken by roll-call in accordance with rule 99 (4). (parliament adopted the resolution) (applause) thank you very much. mrs. kuneva, allow me to congratulate you. few commissioners have received such a long and intense applause as yours.
we shall now proceed to the vote and we shall vote on the motion for a decision approving the appointment of the new commissioner proposed by romania, mr d. leonard orban. (parliament adopted the decision) (loud applause) thank you and congratulations to you too, mr orban. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments pending the presentation of the sakharov prize and resumed at 12 noon)
ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, commissioners, it is a great pleasure for the european parliament to welcome today the winner of the 2006 sakharov prize, mr milinkievitch, leader of the united democratic forces in belarus. believe me, mr milinkievitch, we are especially pleased that you can be here today. (applause) sometimes, we thought you couldn't be here today. on occasion, our laureates have been unable to be here to receive their award. so, we had to regret that aung san suu kyi, wei jingsheng, or the ladies in white were not able to be present at this ceremony. it is good to remember that we europeans, living in established democracies, often assume that human rights are something natural and indisputable, like the air we breathe. we enjoy our political and civil liberties, sometimes forgetting what it costs to acquire them and, in any case, accustomed to their practice. good things are soon acquired, and even countries that have gained their freedom later enjoy it as if they had always had it and as if everyone else had it. however, we must remember that on our planet today billions of people lack the freedom that we enjoy. our union is founded on respect for human rights, and part of our raison d'être is to defend and promote them throughout the world. not just for a mere moral issue, but for our own self-interest. it is in europe's best interests that our freedom be exercised by all mankind. the sakharov prize is therefore a symbol of the european union's defence of and commitment to human rights, and this year it is awarded to a person who is dedicating his life to the fight for freedom in his country. everyone knows that the presidential elections held in march in belarus were neither free nor fair and that the european union was unable to send its observers, whose access to the country was denied. mr milinkievitch had the courage to challenge the last dictatorial regime in europe; he succeeded in uniting the forces of the democratic opposition in order to restore political rights and freedoms in his country. he has led mass demonstrations and has been arrested for urging his compatriots to defend their fundamental rights. mr milinkievitch, you have become the symbol of resistance against oppression and the symbol of hope for a democratic future. we share with you the aspirations of belarusian society to obtain the right to elect its leaders democratically, the right to independent information, the right to create non-governmental organizations and the right to an independent and impartial judiciary. the european parliament has always defended it. we have protested against the violence, arbitrary arrests and politically motivated sentences of the belarusian regime against those who are fighting for fundamental rights in that country. the award you receive today is a sign of our support for all the people who share your struggle. this is not the first time we have given this award to people from belarus. in 2004, this parliament awarded the sakharov prize to the association of journalists of belarus, to professionals who risked their lives to know the truth and to make it known. today, two years later, we again give our full support to the struggle for democracy in belarus, because things have not improved since then. the death penalty is still regularly practiced in that country. i would like to condemn the arrest and sentencing of aleksander kazulin, who is currently on hunger strike in prison, and i would like to say that we are convinced here that the future of belarus lies in sharing this freedom and prosperity with a free and prosperous democratic europe. you are a scientist, mr milinkievitch, as andrei sakharov himself was. both have shared the same views, the same values and the same training, and have experienced the same sad consequences of standing up to a totalitarian regime. today the prize named after the scientist sakharov is awarded to another scientist, but it is given above all to the hope of a democratic belarus and to all those who are with you in your struggle to make it a reality. mr milinkievitch, you have the floor. (the president declared the sakharov prize to be awarded)
leader of the democratic opposition in belarus. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall speak in my mother tongue because i would like to say what i think and i always think in belarusian. so i'm going to speak in the language that best allows me to express my feelings. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) (the speaker continues in his native language, the text below is a translation) first of all, let me express my sincere gratitude to the european parliament for awarding me this high distinction, the andrei sakharov prize, a brilliant physicist and a passionate defender of human rights. i also thank you for this opportunity to speak before you. this award is not mine alone! with me, all belarusians are being awarded this prize, all those who were in the square in minsk last march, who were thrown into prisons, expelled from universities and workplaces. this award is for all those who continue the fight. there are many of us! we are the ones who want belarus to return to the family of european democracies and who are ready to sacrifice their personal well-being, their freedom and even their lives to achieve this. belarus has always been a european country. he gave much to europe by making many sacrifices. in the 16th century, it gave europe a prototype of the first democratic constitution, the status of the grand duchy of lithuania. he gave the world several prominent personalities, such as guillaume apollinaire, marc chagall, fedor dostoevsky, dmitri shostakovich, and tadeusz kościuszko. belarusians were the second europeans to translate the bible into their native language. during the second world war, the most powerful resistance movement in europe developed in belarus, at the cost of the lives of one in three inhabitants. of the six million jews who were killed in the holocaust, one million were from belarus. if we're to deserve freedom, we've earned it! through all our history and the sacrifices made in his name. every century, because of endless wars, belarus lost from a quarter to a third of its sons and daughters, it lost its elite. our people have been forced to eradicate their national identity, to amputate their historical memory. in 1991 we were happy to finally gain our independence. but we didn't immediately realize that freedom and independence are not the same thing. today, once again, we are fighting for freedom and defending independence. we are not only doing this for ourselves, but also for our children who, like french, lithuanian, polish and british children, have the right to live in a free country. it was our children who, after the elections on 19 march, stood up all night in the square in minsk, when the adults could no longer stand the cold and went home. it's our children who were thrown in the closed trucks, where they were suffocated, and put in prisons, while their parents took days to find them. these are our children who, after being released from prison, were expelled from universities for their conscientious choice. but they never once questioned the wisdom of our common decision. i'm proud of them. throughout the week following the elections, as we remained in the square and protested against the gross falsification of the election results, the authorities arrested more than a thousand people. the prisons in minsk had never been packed to capacity, and that was precisely the case during that week. the regime realized that it could not stop this protest movement, even by force of its troops. so during those few days, the authorities arrested anyone who came to the marketplace, even those who simply brought water, food, and warm clothing to the inhabitants of the "city of tents". on 19 march, the authorities did not expect to see tens of thousands of people leaving, despite threats of reprisals. that was our first victory. i realize very clearly that we will have to win many more such victories before we can end this illegal regime. today mr aliaksandr kazouline, a former presidential candidate, is in prison, sentenced to 5 and a half years in prison. he has now been on hunger strike for more than 50 days. his health is extremely serious, he's lost 40 kilos, his life is in danger. this award is also for him, as well as for zmitser dachkevitch, pavel seviarynets, mikola statkevitch and andrei klimau and all the other political prisoners in my country. this award is a sign of europe's awareness of the situation in belarus. this prize is a great example of moral politics. this prize is a sign of recognition of belarus' european future. today, this high distinction could have been received by the long-time leader of the belarusian democratic movement, professor hienadź karpienka. or by former minister of internal affairs yury zakharanka. or by viktar hantchar, the deputy chairman of the last legitimate parliament in belarus. these people are the heroes, the freedom fighters of belarus. but they disappeared without a trace or were murdered. it is by these means, as old as human hatred and hopelessly outdated as the inquisition, that the belarusian powers of today are cracking down on their opponents. in his nobel peace prize acceptance speech, andrei sakharov said: "i am convinced that international trust, mutual understanding, disarmament and international security are not conceivable without an open society with freedom of information, freedom of conscience, glasnost, the right to travel and to choose the country of residence". i share that view. academician sakharov has always advocated nonviolent resistance. in this, too, i am his disciple. and we have everything to gain: faith in the european future of belarus, solidarity, boldness and experience. for many young people, the blue the colour of the european flag has become a symbol. last march, this flag was hoisted next to our national flag of white-red-white. as a sign of solidarity with us there were also the flags of lithuania, ukraine, poland, russia, estonia, azerbaijan, georgia. we must overcome the fear which, over the last ten years, has permeated the consciousness of the people through constant propaganda. andrei sakharov warned: "freedom of thought is the only guarantee against the contamination of people by collective myths which, in the hands of treacherous hypocrites and demagogues, can turn into a bloody dictatorship". this is what is happening in belarus today. we're bringing back the monuments to stalin's glory. taking up the "best" traditions of the soviet system, the official media are constantly pouring out torrents of lies and slander, just as in sakharov's time. the main enemy is the west and the local democrats are presented as its agents. the regime is now in a difficult situation, its planned economy is not effective, russia threatens to stop the economic preferences. for this reason, the government is angry and tries to blame the political opponents. at the end of november, during his meeting with ukrainian journalists, mr lukashenko said that "this opposition is fleeing abroad where they are demanding the application of economic sanctions against the country and are happy that tomorrow gas prices will rise". i would like to take this opportunity to say from this european platform, with all responsibility and to everyone, especially the belarusian people, that these are lies! we have never called for economic sanctions against our country because we fully understand that these sanctions will first of all hit ordinary belarusians. as for the ruling power, it will always find ways to support its officials. we have repeatedly said that russian gas would no longer be cheap for belarus, but would become expensive in russia itself. it is a pity that the belarusian leadership did not seize the opportunity that presented itself and did not use the opportunities that they had for a long time to carry out real economic reforms. now it is the belarusian people who will suffer the consequences. among the main conditions that moscow is now imposing on lukashenko for its long-standing economic and political support are the move to the single currency, the de facto russian ruble, and the adoption of the constitutional act of the so-called "union state" in the russian version. acceptance of these conditions would mean the inevitable loss of sovereignty by belarus. at the moment, the belarusian political leadership is still resistant to moving in this direction. in recent times, lukashenko has been openly expressing his concern about the independence of the country. he spoke of the link between independence and welfare, which has long been discussed by the democratic forces in belarus. but in lukashenko's case, the defence of independence must not be confused with the defence of his personal interests and his desire to retain power at any cost. he and his entourage are well aware that with the loss of independence and the arrival of russian capital in the country, few of them would retain their positions and wealth. but it cannot be ruled out that, driven by an instinct of self-preservation, the belarusian authorities will accept the conditions already mentioned from moscow and will hold a referendum to approve them. it should be noted that only democracy, not dictatorship, can guarantee belarusian independence. the fact that we have not yet been able to find common ground with moscow does not mean that the democratic forces of belarus are directed against russia. we want to live in a sovereign state and build the best possible relationship with russia. we are willing to consider his interests as long as they do not conflict with our own. russia is a strategic partner for us, as it is for the eu. democratic belarus will be a credible and predictable friend to russia. we believe that the ban on entry into the countries of the european union for persons who violate the constitution and who participate in repression is a very effective measure. the list of these 'anti-democracy fighters' must be extended. at the same time, i call on you not to increase the cost of schengen visas for belarusian citizens. it is planned that from 1 january 2007 the price of the schengen visa will be 60 euros. for the overwhelming majority of belarusians who have a huge need for free contacts with the west, this cost would be prohibitive. the decision may lead to the erection of a new 'iron curtain'. but these measures will benefit lukashenka, who keeps telling the belarusian people that "no one is waiting for us in the west". we have very positively welcomed the proposals made last month by the european commission. for the lukashenko government, they offer a good opportunity to break out of the international self-isolation and unenviable economic situation in which it has sunk. alexander lukashenko himself was forced to admit at the government meeting that the next year will be "catastrophically hard". if these proposals are accepted by the regime, belarus could gain considerable support to launch the long-needed political and socio-economic reforms and to begin a genuine rapprochement with europe, including through gradual economic integration. but the hopes that the belarusian government will accept the path of rapprochement with the european union are almost nil. there have been many similar proposals, but the regime has never given a positive response. its followers fully understand that once democratization has begun, it will inevitably and very quickly lead to the end of their hold. the current ruler of belarus will never win another free election. at the same time, this offer from the european union gives us the opportunity to make it clear to the citizens of our country that despite what the state propaganda says, europe leaves the door open to belarus, but to a free and democratic belarus. these proposals came at a very opportune time, during the local election campaign. there will be no real elections, just as there is no real local government in belarus. as part of this campaign, we are spreading information about the european union's proposals. we really appreciate your help and we thank you very much. i would, however, call on you to extend it and make it more flexible. these are things that are already known: help for free media, support for civil society and for people who are repressed. the current eu programmes are designed for countries which are already on the path to democratisation and reform. but they cannot work in the case of belarus. in order to support democracy in countries like mine, it is high time that a european democracy fund was set up which would have real means to work towards countries with dictatorial regimes. europe must not give up and say 'what can we do about it?' you can do a lot! you can help us break the information blockade, break the narrow worldview imposed on my countrymen by government propaganda, create a public space conducive to open civic debate where independent authors, intellectuals and moral authorities will meet. this will undoubtedly contribute to the faster development of civil society in belarus. the recent message from europe to the belarusian people was both a demonstration of your solidarity with us and a reminder to the current regime of its responsibility for its crimes. and what is more important: in this message, it is about the place of our country in europe. i am deeply convinced that europe cannot be complete without belarus. that is why we repeat the same words as my ancestors who participated in the liberating insurrection against tyranny: "for your and our freedom". i, a belarusian and a citizen of a european country, thank you from the bottom of my heart and also on behalf of all those who were in the square last march and all those who have been or are now in prison for defending or for defending the fundamental right to live in a free country. i want to thank you for your faith in our victory. i promise you our victory will not be long. my country is not what it used to be, it's less afraid, it believes in change. belarus will soon be back in the european family and will once again be a free and democratic state. the dictatorships have no historical prospects and, as history shows, tyrants end up in misery. the only real choice under dictatorship is to fight. simply because we have no other choice. thank you for your support and long live belarus! (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the house. thank you, mr milinkievitch. i'm not sure i can do it. the european parliament is proud to have awarded you this prize and is confident that your words here today will go down in history. (applause) 'the sitting was suspended for a few moments pending the resumption of the voting period.'
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would like to begin by thanking mrs hieronymi for the very high quality of her work and also the work of the committee secretariat in handling such a large number of amendments. i think that we will be able to adopt, with the efforts of all of us, a directive which can be effectively implemented, which is not a letter to the magi, now that we are at christmas, but a legal rule which can be put into practice and a rule which will not be obsolete in six months, a rule which therefore takes care of the technical reality we are talking about and which is not drafted from the philosophy of each individual but is based on the reality of today's world. and at the same time i think it is a directive which can be run from two extremes, and it will be if the amendments are adopted, as some of us hope: from the extreme of an american-style television controlled and dominated by advertising, but also from the extreme of those who believe that everything must be regulated by law, who want to change society only by law, based on values which we can sometimes even share, or on the pretext of protecting the weakest, the minors and others whom we all want to protect, and believe that this must be done only and exclusively by law, imposing burdens which make it impossible and unviable to have commercial television in the open, or limiting the legitimate freedom of enterprise that exists in our market systems and in the european internal market. i think we've struck that balance between the two extremes. there are some extremes left. for example, there is still an amendment which wants to ban pornography on the internet; it is a very commendable object. i do not know whether it is the european parliament's responsibility to ban pornography on the internet, for example. and it has nothing to do with the values that each of us defends, but with the reality of the matter on which we are legislating. i would like to end by supporting and praising the efforts of the commission and everyone to have a text that clearly covers self-regulation and co-regulation. it is an instrument which has borne very good fruit and will continue to do so in the implementation of this directive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that democracy is a system of public opinion, and the freer the media, the better the quality of that democracy. this directive regulates the media in the audiovisual sector and the question i think we have to ask is: does it make them freer or less free than before? the equation we have to consider in answering this question is: the more interventionism of the public authorities, the less freedom of the media and vice versa, the less interventionism of the public authorities, the more freedom of the media. in my view, ladies and gentlemen, this directive is unfortunately too interventionist: it is so in the field of advertising, it is so in the field of quotas for audiovisual productions, it is so because it unnecessarily extends the scope of coverage unduly to non-linear services, but above all it is so because it gives the national regulatory authorities the capacity to protect the fundamental right of freedom of expression. any democrat knows that the protection of fundamental rights is the exclusive responsibility of the courts of justice. but this directive, and not because of the rapporteur, who has been very brave about it - and thank you for that, ruth hieronymi - gives the national regulatory authorities the ability to decide what is true and what is not true, what emissions can be given or what emissions cannot be given or, as has happened in catalonia, which is one of the european regions with the lowest democratic quality in the whole of the european union, which operators can issue or which cannot issue. in this way we are opening the door to prior censorship. and i ask you, please, mrs reding, to take this seriously, to see if we can avoid it, among other things because we will have to listen carefully to what organizations like reporters without borders, the world association of newspapers or the world committee for press freedom have to say on this point. they're going to color us. i hope that at least this suffocation will help us to correct our mistake in time.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to present to you today the european union's annual human rights report. the first human rights report was published in 1999, when finland, as in this case, was involved in the preparation of the report in its role as the presidency of the european union. the purpose of the report has not changed since then. it continues to deal in a unique way with the european union's human rights policy and the issues raised within it. the report now presented examines the eu's actions and policies aimed at promoting universal respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms during the period 1 july 2005-30 june 2006. the report follows seven previous annual reports published between 1999 and 2005 in accordance with the declaration adopted by the european council in 1998. in that declaration, issued on the 50th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, the european union was called upon to step up its human rights work. the same declaration also called on the eu to draw up an annual human rights report. the human rights report provides an overview of the work done to promote human rights and democracy in the european union institutions. the eu's external policies and internal aspects are examined. this year, the european parliament's activities in promoting human rights and democracy will again be examined in its own section. the european parliament is grateful to raise human rights issues and to ensure that these issues receive the attention they deserve in the other institutions of the union. the report highlights specific priorities of eu human rights policy, such as mainstreaming human rights.in practice, mainstreaming has meant increasing interaction between human rights experts and country working groups and raising human rights concerns in different areas of eu activity, such as crisis management and arms exports. the european union has developed ways of addressing specific issues such as women and security and children in the context of armed conflict. the personal representative of the secretary-general, acting as high representative, has been active in mainstreaming human rights in the common foreign and security policy and in raising awareness of the eu guidelines on human rights. the european union has adopted specific guidelines on certain issues and thus defined the priorities of its human rights policy. the union opposes the death penalty in all circumstances and has identified individual cases in which the minimum standards of international law have not been met. in the reporting period, the union has paid particular attention to countries whose approach to the death penalty has been changing. the european union has encouraged various countries to accede to the international convention for the elimination of torture and thus contribute to strengthening efforts to eliminate torture. the union has also identified a number of priority areas in which it intends to improve the human rights situation by alleviating the suffering of children in armed conflicts in various ways. it has been important to raise this issue in multilateral international fora and to enhance the eu's own capacity to address this issue in the context of european security and defence policy operations. as regards the eu guidelines on human rights defenders, the union has undertaken global campaigns on freedom of expression and women's human rights. as human rights defenders are themselves quite often the target of attacks, their rights remain a priority for eu action. the council appreciates the central role of the european parliament in our common mission to defend and promote the realisation of human rights. the annual sakharov prize for freedom of expression is central to this task. in previous years, parliament has paid tribute to notable figures such as nelson mandela and kofi annan. it is positive that this year's sakharov prize has been awarded to the belarusian opposition leader, aleksandr milinkevich. it is to be hoped that the international honour awarded will encourage milinkevich and others to continue their important work in strengthening democratic forces in belarus. during the period covered by the report, i.e. between the summer of 2005 and the summer of 2006, the un structure underwent a significant change. the negotiations for the establishment of the un human rights council and subsequently the first session of the new council provided the key framework for eu action in the field of multilateral human rights policy. the eu has always aimed to create a council which would give human rights the status guaranteed by the un charter. although we did not get all the things we were working on into the final text adopted in march 2006, the union nevertheless considers that the establishment of the un human rights council is an essential part of strengthening the un human rights system. it is also a significant step forward in the whole process of reforming the un. the promotion of human rights and the development of democracy and the rule of law is of the utmost importance in the fight against terrorism and various extremist movements. the eu has reiterated in several statements at the un and other forums its view that ensuring respect for human rights is also essential in its counter-terrorism work. the presidency has emphasized on several occasions that effective counter-terrorism and the protection of human rights are complementary and mutually reinforcing. political dialogue is undoubtedly one of the key instruments for the promotion of human rights. the mainstreaming of human rights has sought to ensure a consistent approach to human rights issues in eu-third country contacts at different levels. this also applies to countries with which the eu has a special human rights dialogue, such as china and russia. this year's human rights report highlights for the first time the eu's commitment to promoting intercultural dialogue both within the union and with third countries. victims of human rights violations and human rights defenders around the world have high expectations of the european union, and rightly so. as a community of values, the european union can be expected to be very ambitious in its efforts to promote human rights and democracy. this report will help us to assess how well the union has been able to meet this challenge.
member of the commission. mr president, i very much welcome the publication of the 2006 annual report on human rights. this is the first time that this report has really been a combined effort. we have battled for that. last year we had the debate here in plenary and i said that i would be very happy if we could prepare the report together. i would have liked to have one of the prefaces. unfortunately it seems it was too late, but i think the commission should have been visible. it now seems to be an established practice always to have a special session on human rights and democracy before christmas. it is a good tradition; it is a noble tradition, to see what has been implemented and what the new developments are. the annual report this year is again a valuable record of the combined efforts of us all in promoting and protecting human rights around the world, and a reflection of the positive way in which the european union has come together to produce it. this debate gives me the opportunity to quickly highlight some activities in 2006. first, mainstreaming human rights into external policies ranked high on our eu priority list in 2006, thanks to the austrian and finnish presidencies. it is indeed a source of satisfaction to note that all actors within the eu are more and more committed to this very important aspect of our policies. however, let us not forget that mainstreaming or, as i also like to call it, ‘integrating’ human rights into all policies, is not an end in itself, but an approach to achieving overarching goals. for the european union, these goals have a clear basis in our treaty, which calls on us to develop and consolidate democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms through our various external policies. in this context, we are particularly pleased that human rights and democracy issues have been integrated into the legal texts of all the new financing instruments under the 2007-2013 financial perspective. secondly, mainstreaming is a never-ending process; we need to constantly maintain our efforts and introduce new tools. i am happy to inform you in this context that last june the commission revised the mandates of its heads of delegation, following up on the report by mr agnoletto. these mandates now specifically mention human rights and democracy issues, and therefore place greater priority on reporting and acting in this regard. similarly, in the context of the ‘human rights clauses’ of our agreements, we have seen the creation of the new forums for dialogue or exchanges of views with third countries. the number of occasions to discuss the promotion of and respect for human rights has been growing, from argentina and bangladesh to india, jordan, morocco, turkmenistan and vietnam. that is in addition to the institutionalised human rights dialogues and consultations and the various political dialogues where human rights issues are regularly raised. last but not least, the commission continues to include the human rights and democracy ‘essential elements’ clause in the negotiation of the new bilateral partnership and cooperation agreements. this is, for instance, the case for the agreement with six asean countries. likewise, preparations are being made for negotiating an agreement with china, and the commission remains fully committed to the inclusion of this clause in conformity with our standard practice. thirdly, while mainstreaming or integrating human rights issues in all our policies, we also need to focus on some specific aspects of the human rights policy. these have been exemplified by two communications from the commission: one called ‘roadmap on equality between women and men’ and the other ‘towards an eu strategy on the rights of the child’. the year 2006 has also been characterised by the pivotal changes seen within the united nations human rights machinery, with the new human rights council that has already been mentioned. whilst there was initially great cause for optimism, for example the active participation of ngos in debates or the desire to move away from the failure of its predecessor the commission for human rights, the overall picture at the end of the year is a cause for concern, not least because of the discouraging signs of politicisation of this new forum. we, the european union, have to renew our efforts and engage more with a number of actors in geneva in order to convince them that the international community needs an effective human rights council. we still have the possibility to make this new body work and deliver. indeed, we have to remain hopeful that today’s special session on darfur will yield some positive results. i cannot conclude without indicating once again my personal satisfaction, as well as the commission’s satisfaction, with the vote that took place earlier today on the proposal for a regulation establishing the new european instrument for democracy and human rights. this instrument will make it easier for the commission to establish priorities when implementing the objectives contained in the regulation and in keeping with its scope. however, we know too well that measures to promote human rights and democracy deserve to be as worldwide, numerous, multisectoral and cross-cutting as possible. the fact that the number of beneficiaries has expanded will also have to be taken into account. but the enhanced complementarity with the various tools, which range from political dialogue and diplomatic demarches to various instruments of financial and technical cooperation, including both geographic and thematic programmes, is warmly welcomed. finally, we are looking forward to developing more integrated approaches to human rights and democracy under the new instrument. there continues to be some debate about human rights and democracy as if they were two different issues. however, we think that human rights are the foundation for democracy and democracy is necessary to develop and protect human rights. therefore, let us not create artificial demarcations. in any case, we think this is a good basis for continuing our work in the year to come.
i would like to say that the ladies in white are helpless women, wives, mothers and daughters of political dissidents of the cuban regime who, peacefully and silently, from various cities in cuba, with enormous effort, meet on sundays and walk together in white through the streets of havana, as they did last sunday, when they were harassed, threatened and insulted by some who wanted to celebrate human rights day in this way. and it seems ridiculous that i have to say today that these women are not dangerous counterrevolutionary terrorists funded by the cia, but only women who do not resign themselves to injustice and the infringement of their most fundamental rights as human beings. and so it is also ridiculous that the cuban regime still does not allow some of its representatives to leave the country to collect the sakharov prize which the european parliament awarded them last year. we do not know what has become of the efforts promised by the president of the house in this very house a year ago, but if he has done anything, the results are certainly obvious. that is why i welcome the initiative of mrs flautre and mr brok to send a delegation to the island. and i am not opposed to the delegation taking advantage of the trip to meet the authorities of the country and thus to feel the changing political climate. i would ask the european parliament's services to start the formal procedures for obtaining the necessary entry permits without delay. and i ask the commission and the council to exert all their pressure to get them granted. if the answer is in the affirmative, as i hope, we could make a small but effective expression of solidarity. and if it were negative, mr president, it would speak for itself of the attitude of the present cuban leaders, something which the european institutions should take note of in due course.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, on behalf of the socialist group, i would like to thank the council for coming for the second consecutive year to present its annual report on human rights at this december part-session, which the european parliament devotes to human rights. i certainly welcome the work of the council in this eighth report and i congratulate it in particular on the section devoted to the action of the european parliament. looks like they're starting to listen to us. i also share the council's view that it is important to maintain consistency in community action. this principle, which is valuable in all fields, is especially so when dealing with human rights. the european union must not only be consistent but also exemplary in fulfilling its international obligations. we have a moral duty to stand firm in defence of our values and to place human rights, the rule of law and international legality at the heart of our actions, especially at times when any of these principles are being called into question, even by democratic governments. it must be made clear that violations of human rights cannot be tolerated on the territory of the european union and that firm action must be taken to counteract a certain backsliding in respect for the safeguards and guarantees. i regret that the council has not shown greater commitment to this concern, and i take this opportunity to correct the reference made in the report on the temporary committee on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners, as the council has confused the investigation being carried out by the council of europe with the one we are carrying out in this very parliament. the link between human rights in the union's external relations and internal policy is growing, as is the growing link between security, development cooperation and human rights. the european union must assume its responsibility as a global actor and, to do so, it must take a firm stand and speak with one voice on the world stage. greater visibility and more decisive action by the european union in relation to long-running conflicts such as the one in palestine or the crisis in darfur will undoubtedly be a contribution by europe to these human rights that we are all defending here today.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, last sunday the former chilean dictator augusto pinochet died, precisely - a curious coincidence - 58 years after world leaders adopted the universal declaration of human rights in 1948. the european union is - we often say - a project built on values, the main ones being respect for and promotion of human rights. and there are many, many of us who think that this is the way it should be. the fight for human rights is increasingly concerned with cross-cutting issues such as the promotion of democracy, governance, conflict prevention, crisis management, humanitarian law, etc. it is also important to stress the universal and indivisible nature of these rights. that is why it is so sad to see the terrible breakdown of certain principles and values. in particular, we must remember the need to address and redress the human rights impact of the european union's internal policies, such as the fight against terrorism or the management of migration, in third countries. it is also important to recognize that the council is making a considerable effort to ensure transparency in the eu's human rights dialogues with china, iran and russia, but there is still concern about the double standard in judging acts and attitudes, depending on whether the perpetrator is a potential economic ally or not, and this is also a concern when assessing compliance with the democratic clauses of certain association agreements. finally, the european union must seriously address the serious crisis of legitimacy and credibility of our human rights discourse, especially after the regrettable episodes of collaboration or complicit silence concerning illegal detentions and renditions, which in some cases means directly endorsing torture.
mr president, i have been involved in budgetary debates for 12 years and i have never seen a president of parliament take the microphone away from the main rapporteur. i think that your presidency has not been very lucky in this case. i would like to congratulate the four rapporteurs on their reports and the consensus they have reached in particularly difficult situations. my group placed particular emphasis on the quality of expenditure - the value for money - and on the parallel negotiation of a revision of the financial regulation. we hope for a satisfactory resolution on both points after the vote on thursday. at a time of great budgetary constraints, with budgets made up of around 1%, the only way this parliament can improve the efficiency of community policies is to establish a thorough evaluation of the resources applied and the results obtained. i think that in the future this value for money approach will be widely applied. as a complement to this approach, we have the revision of the financial regulation, which is necessary to increase expenditure discipline in the member states and in the commission itself. as regards payments, i must say that this is a budget which has come very cheaply to the council and is possibly insufficient for the european union, but it is true that in the years to come parliament will be much more demanding in getting a sufficient level of payments to meet commitments. i would like to conclude with a reflection on what the president-in-office of the council said about the efficiency and the responsibilities of each institution: we have them. we are a particularly responsible institution and that is why we have supported the commission's work from the outset and rejected the presidency's approach.
member of the commission. i should like to thank the honourable member for her question concerning the commission’s follow-up to the recommendation set out in the report on women’s networks, fishing, farming and diversification adopted by parliament on 15 december 2005. the commission considers the situation of women working in the fisheries sector, and in particular their legal and social recognition, to be a very important issue. it is using all the instruments at its disposal to promote equal treatment and opportunities for women and men in the sector concerned. as regards the four specific questions raised by the honourable member, the commission would like to point out the following. firstly, the european fisheries fund, which is the new structural instrument for fisheries for 2007-2013, explicitly states, in article 4(g), that one of its objectives is to promote equality between men and women in the development of the fisheries sector and fisheries areas. the eff is based on the principle of partnership with all stakeholders in the fisheries sector, and this explicitly covers partnership with bodies responsible for the promotion of equality between men and women. the eff contains specific provisions promoting gender equality, both through better women’s representation in decision-making processes and in the programmes to be implemented by member states. in particular, the commission is encouraging participation by women in the various stages of implementation of the european fisheries fund, including the design, monitoring and evaluation of the member states’ operational programmes for the next programming period. the fund can also support measures aimed at promoting equal opportunities between men and women through networking and the exchange of best practices among relevant organisations. the commission will strive to ensure that member states reflect these provisions and priorities in their operational programmes. secondly, the commission recognises the importance of training in the fisheries sector, and education and professional training are eligible for support under the european fisheries fund. training measures are also expected to promote access to employment for women. moreover, under the fund’s new priority axis 4 on the sustainable development of fisheries areas, support can be granted for the diversification of activities and the promotion of alternative employment for fishermen through a large variety of measures. under this axis, special measures for the improvement of professional skills, work adaptability and access to employment for women can also be supported. it should be stressed that the commission is promoting the involvement of women in the local bodies, managing the measures supported under axis 4. thirdly, as mentioned above, the eff requires member states to ensure broad and effective involvement of all relevant partners in the different stages of programming, and this includes bodies responsible for the promotion of equality between men and women. the fund also requires the operational programmes to contain information on how the partnership principle has been implemented, the list of the parties that have been consulted, the results of those consultations and how they have been taken into account. the new priority axis 4 on sustainable development of fisheries areas, supported under the fund, will be implemented through a bottom-up approach. it will be the local players, including women’s associations, that will serve as the engine for designing and implementing local development strategies. this allows women’s organisations to get involved in decision-making at the local level and ensure that their specific concerns and suggestions are taken into account in local development strategies. women and their representatives are also encouraged to participate in the regional advisory councils, which were set up to improve the governance of the reformed common fisheries policy. for instance, women’s associations already have a seat in the north sea rac, which was the first rac to be formed. women are also represented in the north western waters rac. finally, in the present programming period, under the financial instrument for fisheries guidance, member states can co-finance studies and innovative projects covering the specific situation of women shellfish gatherers. this possibility is also offered under the european fisheries fund, under priority axis 3 on collective actions. the commission has since 2003 been launching a series of calls for proposals for innovative actions in the fisheries sector. these actions are now almost completed. in 2005 the commission conducted an ex-post evaluation of these actions in order to assess their impact and added value. the results of this evaluation showed clearly that such actions do not have an added value, whereas innovative actions included in, and financed through, the operational programmes of the member states, were more successful and better monitored. taking into account these conclusions, the commission decided to integrate the implementation of those actions into the european fisheries fund regulation and to support their implementation through the operational programmes of the member states.
i am grateful for your explanations, mr commissioner, but i would like to refer to the specific situation of shellfish farmers, mostly women over 50, who suffer from health problems arising from their work and who, in many cases, also lack the right to unemployment, health services and safety at work. in our report we therefore asked the commission to draw up a pilot project to take account of the particular situation of shellfish farmers. does the commission agree to launch this pilot project, as suggested by parliament? we would like to know what the commission intends to do about this.
mr president, i should also like to begin by expressing the satisfaction that other colleagues have expressed, albeit with a certain degree of caution. it is a contented satisfaction, because, although it is true that it is a very appropriate response to the time of anguish that so many of our fellow citizens are experiencing, it would be a mistake to raise expectations that would then be frustrated. but we can say that tomorrow will be a positive message, in which, first of all, a way of working is shown which overcomes the differences between our parties, to agree on problems that are common to us. it is a broad agreement between the council, the commission and parliament, which also shows good methodology. but above all, it is a rule that shows that we have come to understand that europe is solidarity, that europe is its social model, and that we are sensitive to the demand of our citizens that between the state and the world there should be a european reality that accompanies the victims of globalisation, those who are paying the bill for globalisation. we are prepared to support them, albeit in a limited and symbolic way, with a new instrument, which must of course be managed with extreme efficiency, given the limited resources available to them, and which is a tool dedicated to those who suffer the most, the workers, in order to ensure their reintegration into the labour market. mr president, parliament has done a good job and tomorrow my vote will be in favour, as will the majority of my colleagues.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs gröner and also mrs sartori, the council and the commission on the agreement reached. we welcome the fact that parliament's view of the important issues for the more efficient functioning of the institute has been respected. a medium-sized board of directors, elected on a rotating basis from among the member states, will undoubtedly make decision-making more agile. we are satisfied that a director has been appointed by an open and transparent procedure and has been required to appear before the committee responsible in this parliament to answer questions from members. and the re-establishment of a forum of experts, consisting of representatives of the member states, parliament and the social partners, to assist the management in planning the institute's activities is certainly a good thing. today is a historic day for this parliament, ladies and gentlemen, because today we have achieved something that this parliament and the other institutions and civil society have all felt was absolutely necessary: an independent body dedicated specifically to gender equality policies. in short, ladies and gentlemen, equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of the european union. and this institute will be a powerful tool in ensuring that equality between men and women is mainstreamed in all community policies.
we have a very important item on the agenda today, namely the joint debate on - the report by elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the commission communication entitled 'enlargement strategy and main challenges 2006-2007' [2006/2252 (ini) ] (a6-0436/2006) and - the report by alexander stubb, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the institutional aspects of the european union's capacity to integrate new member states [2006/2226 (ini) ] (a6-0393/2006). apart from their intrinsic importance, these issues are of particular importance, since we are on the eve of the european council and they will be one of the most important aspects of the meeting of heads of state and government. i shall be happy to forward to the council the resolutions adopted by parliament on this subject at this part-session.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the june european council decided that the debate on enlargement and the future enlargement strategy of the union would be continued and deepened during the finnish presidency. this week's european council will discuss all aspects of future enlargement, including the union's readiness to welcome new members and ways of further improving the quality of the enlargement process on the basis of the experience gained so far. the european council will conduct its general debate on enlargement on the basis of the enlargement strategy announced by the commission on 8 november. the strategy also includes a special report on the union's capacity to integrate new members. the presidency aims to ensure that the european council's discussions will consolidate a common vision for the future of the enlargement process. the european council's conclusions on enlargement were discussed by the general affairs and external relations council on monday. the council held a constructive and thorough discussion on the matter. enlargement is part of the process of european integration. when the finnish presidency presented its work programme to the committee on foreign affairs last july, we stressed that enlargement has undoubtedly contributed to growth and prosperity in europe. enlargement has benefited the union and its member states as well as europe as a whole. the prospect of membership has encouraged the candidate countries to undertake the necessary reforms. the enlargement has made the union a more powerful actor in international politics. the enlargement of the internal market has enabled the eu economy to better respond to the challenges of global competition. the historic fifth enlargement will be completed when bulgaria and romania, whose future commissioners were approved here yesterday, join the european union on 1 january. this round of enlargement has already proved a success. the enlargement process has already extended the area of peace, stability, democracy, the rule of law and prosperity to almost all of europe. we must now ensure that this success continues. the union must pursue enlargement as an open and objective process, without imposing any new restrictions or conditions. to ensure this, more attention needs to be paid to the practical promotion of enlargement. it is natural to seek to improve the quality of the enlargement process and to develop the union's preparation for enlargement. as we know, and as the speakers have also shown, the capacity for integration or the capacity of the union to welcome new members is not a criterion for membership. nor should the capacity for integration be such. however, the ability to integrate is an important consideration to ensure successful enlargement. maintaining the capacity for integration is in the interest of both the union and the candidate countries. however, if we were to impose conditions on enlargement within the union which the candidate country itself could not influence, we would risk undermining the willingness of those countries to reform. in order to maintain the union's integration capacity, it is necessary that the acceding countries are prepared to accept and implement the obligations of membership of the european union. it is also essential that the union is able to function effectively and develop. it is important that the union can welcome new members when they are ready, on the basis of the progress made in the negotiations. both of these aspects are also important for securing public support for the enlargement process. the union's capacity for integration must be examined in the enlargement process. it is necessary to ensure that the union is able to function politically, economically and institutionally as it enlarges. the impact of future enlargements on the union's institutions, policies and budget must be carefully assessed. it is important that the union sticks to the commitments we have given to croatia and turkey in the accession negotiations and to the countries of the western balkans. as regards turkey, i would like to say that the presidency has done everything possible to enable the negotiating process to continue. we are pleased with the decision taken by the council on monday. it provides us with a basis for moving forward. the candidate and potential candidate countries have the responsibility to implement the necessary reforms in these countries. progress in the accession process depends on the progress thus made. the only way to advance in the process is to meet the conditions. mr president, there has been a strong feeling of expansionary fatigue in the air recently. providing timely and factual information can also help to dispel existing suspicions. the truth is that the union benefits from and needs the new member states. finally, mr president, on behalf of the presidency, i would like to thank the european parliament for its active participation in the debate on enlargement. the two reports before us today are a valuable contribution to this debate. the presidency will of course take due account of the reports on the enlargement strategy and capacity for integration which are before us today, and of the views of the european parliament in general. we are counting on the european parliament to support our common task. (applause) i would like to thank the
member of the commission. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the presidency for the good and close cooperation during your term of office and i would like to congratulate the presidency in particular on the decision taken on monday this week on the way in which the accession negotiations with turkey will be continued. the council's decision on monday was able to prevent a clash in relations between the european union and turkey. that decision shows that the european union can take decisions on difficult issues such as turkey in a straightforward and organised way without much drama. i trust that this will be appreciated in this chamber, and i know that it will be appreciated at least by the 26 members of the european council who will be meeting on thursday and friday and who did not want another summit on turkey at the end of this year. mr president, i would like to thank i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mr brok and mr stubb (who is not stubborn but intellectually most flexible, however his name is pronounced!). i would also like to congratulate the committee and all the members for their intensive work on this important subject. the commission shares many of the points made in the reports. we welcome in particular your preference for the concept of integration capacity, as explained by mr brok and mr stubb. we welcome parliament's support for the commission's enlargement strategy and its principles, as well as the support for our efforts to enhance communication and transparency. i agree with parliament's view that integration capacity is primarily about the eu's institutions, budget and policies. but, before i dwell on those points, let us underline the paramount importance of keeping our own strategic interest in mind when considering our integration capacity. in the current debate in europe in general, we often talk past one another. some underline only the strategic significance of enlargement for peace and democracy. others focus only on internal problems which reduce our capacity to integrate new member states. if these two discourses do not meet, we run the risk of increasing confusion among our own citizens and eroding our credibility in the candidate countries. therefore, we must build up a renewed consensus on enlargement by combining these two sides of the coin. we must keep up the strategic mission of enlargement by maintaining the eu's soft power of democratic and economic transformation and, at the same time, we must ensure our capacity to function, while gradually integrating new member states. for these reasons, the commission will further improve the quality of the accession process. we shall make impact assessments and evaluate budgetary implications on key policies, especially on agricultural and cohesion policies. furthermore, we need to apply rigorous conditionality. experience shows that the better prepared the new member states are the smoother the eu functions after enlargement. difficult issues, such as judicial reform and the fight against corruption, must be addressed at an early stage of the negotiations. however, when improving the quality of the accession process, we shouldn't create something overly complicated. that would only build artificial blockages into a process that is already complicated enough. i believe we are all in favour of simplification, not complication. therefore, we must have clear rules, clear procedures, that are understood both by our own citizens and by the countries concerned the candidate countries. some wonder whether enlargement is done at the expense of deepening. my answer is no: the eu has managed to deepen and to widen in parallel before, and that can be done again. therefore, a new institutional settlement should have been reached by the time the next new member state is likely to be ready to join our union. the european council agreed a timetable for continuing the institutional reform, starting with a political declaration to be adopted in berlin next march. the necessary steps to achieve a new institutional settlement should have been taken by the end of 2008. we need a new institutional settlement to make our decision-making more effective. we need it to strengthen the legitimacy of the union, and we need it to strengthen europe's role in the world. last, but not least, we need it for the current eu and its citizens today or, by the latest, tomorrow not just because of potential future enlargement. we need to maintain the momentum of integration, and to deepen and further develop the european union. i trust you share these goals of a reformed and stronger union and i look forward to working with you to achieve these objectives. (applause) i would like to thank you.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the two rapporteurs. it is not for nothing that two rapporteurs from my political group, mr president, have acted together and in a complementary way. they do not know it, but i am going to reveal a secret this morning: in my political group, mr swoboda, we call mr brok and mr stubb 'the twins'. i hope that other well-known twins at european level will not be disturbed by the usurpation. but the truth is, they've done what the other twins should do. they have acted together for the good of europe. and they have not absorbed the amendments from other political groups, but have integrated them. and that is why i believe that we shall be voting well today on these two reports on the strategy for enlargement and capacity for integration. these two reports, mr president, make a number of positive bets. the first bet - and mr stubb has said it eloquently - is the bet on enlargement. we believe that enlargement is a very useful thing for the european union and for the new member states. there is no doubt about it. and whoever has it should look at paragraph 19 of the resolution. but it is also logical that, for enlargement to be a success, the european union must be prepared to welcome these new states. and right now he's not. that's the reality. no one invites a guest into their home unless the house is ready. that preparation of the house is the second bet mr stubb's report makes, namely the bet on the constitutional treaty. not long ago, two out of every three members of this house supported the corbett-méndez de vigo report. mr stubb's report highlights that fact. we still think that the content of the constitutional treaty is necessary for the house to be able to welcome new guests. i think it is very important to stress this at this stage, because the german presidency is going to make proposals with a date, 2009, and it seems to me that what is emphasized in paragraphs 9 and 10 of the stubb report is the content that any future reform should contain, as well as the rejection of something that we have also emphasized on occasion in this parliament: we do not want cherry picking, the partial entry into force of certain aspects. we want the balance that the text of the constitutional treaty implies. and finally, mr president, both reports have a clear political message. you will go to the european council and i ask you to repeat it there: there will be no further enlargements without a european constitution. there won't be. and this parliament must give an opinion on this when it approves any further enlargement. and you will exercise, because this report solemnly proclaims it, that right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr. swoboda, it's obvious that mr. stubb and mr. brok are not twins, in the physical sense of the word. mr. méndez de vigo said it affectionately, to point out that they act together, like two other characters also famous, like stan laurel and oliver hardy, who were not twins either, but who acted together. (laughter) that is the way to interpret the overall character of your performance, and i would also like to say this with all my affection to our speakers today.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr stubb on his work as the socialist group's alternative rapporteur. it was a serious undertaking, which meets two basic conditions for this type of report. the first is to respond appropriately to a matter of extraordinary importance, and the second, which is key, is to win large majorities in this house. i think this report should follow in the footsteps of others, such as the corbett-méndez report from vigo, which, at the time, was almost unanimously adopted by the european parliament, and that gave them strength. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not saying that the commission should be involved in the negotiations. it is true that we must speak of integration capacity and not absorption capacity. and the legitimate concerns of the citizens must be met by a combination of deepening and widening. we say yes to enlargement, which has been a success and which must be the instrument for building what was once called the european common home, in a happy expression. mr méndez de vigo, we do not want guests in this house; we want people and countries to whom the house will belong, which is even more. and they have the right, not just to be in it, but to be at ease and to decide about their heritage and its collective management. the ability to integrate cannot therefore be a new criterion added to those of copenhagen, but a condition which we as a union set ourselves in order for enlargement to be a success. and integration capacity obviously includes political capacity, institutional capacity and financial capacity before any further enlargement. that is what the report says and what we all say. nice is not good; it is to state the obvious. in politics, in unanimity, which is paralysis, as we are seeing, there is a great cost of not having a constitution. that is why we are voting for this report on the basis of the european constitution, as hannes swoboda said, on the basis of its essential content. the less is the continent, the more are the main advances of that constitution, because this is deepening and enlarging in real time. it is therefore crucial that paragraph 9 of mr stubb's report be carried out in its entirety. we believe that the european constitution will be put into effect through a timely agreement, without pickets and without dismantling the whole thing, but, of course, an agreement which must be ready by 2008 at the latest, so that the citizens can go to vote in 2009 knowing about it. the opposite would be to laugh at ourselves and, of course, at the citizenship. we must also strengthen the european neighbourhood policy; enlargement must be accompanied by a european neighbourhood policy, and especially be directed towards this crucial euro-mediterranean region. the role of the european parliament must be crucial before and after each process. that is why, mr stubb, you will have the firm and resolute support of the socialist group for your report.
mr president, enlargement cannot be an end in itself. it is a way of extending a project and that project cannot be weakened by the extension. and this debate, at the moment of truth, is really undermining our ability to talk about what europe wants to be, what it should do. paragraph 8 of the brok report is very clear. we may be, and indeed we are, faced with a sad flight forward which is preventing us from talking about our own problems and difficulties under the pretext of enlargement. there are institutional reforms which cannot wait, with or without enlargement. there are political and financial measures that can be implemented now without any reform. there are serious problems of legitimacy and shameful actions by the european commission, such as secretly approving airport security rules that are imposed at airports without any democratic control and without informing citizens. there are a great many actions that weaken the democratic legitimacy of our institutions. all of that has to be resolved. and of course the enlargement debate must be opened up, and the two fronts must be opened up in parallel. but enlargement cannot be the pretext for refusing to face up to the serious problems facing the european union today, with or without turkey, with or without enlargement.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for this very diverse, wide-ranging and constructive debate. although there seem to be some differences, there is nevertheless a fairly strong common line in parliament. it is very clear that, if enlargement is to be successful, we must ensure that the union develops internally and that it retains its capacity to act in all circumstances. this is a key element in the capacity for integration and, as this debate has shown, the european union must do its homework. as regards the ongoing enlargement processes and negotiations, it should be remembered that these homework assignments are also not being done for the current processes. the council agreed on monday to promote economic development in northern cyprus as soon as possible, in particular on the basis of the decisions taken in april 2004. the other side of enlargement, the other responsible party, are of course the applicant countries and the countries interested in joining the european union, and they must meet the criteria for membership of the european union. the fulfilment of these criteria must be assessed very objectively and, where necessary, critically, and we naturally trust the honourable commission in its willingness and ability to carry out this assessment. it is certainly a good way of proceeding in such a way that the prospect of membership is approached on the basis of the progress achieved and on the basis of the foundations, and not in such a way that binding dates for the implementation of membership are defined in advance. the constitutional treaty and its future have been the subject of much discussion in this debate. we all agree that the constitutional treaty contains all the elements which are important for improving the union's capacity for integration. however, it should be borne in mind that the need for a constitutional treaty or for reform of the union is not merely due to enlargement, but is already necessary to improve the union's present situation and its ability to function. it is also important to remember that we cannot rely on the constitutional treaty alone to ensure that the union is able to act. the treaties are, after all, only an instrument for implementing the policies of the european union. without political will and commitment to a common european project, the best of the treaties cannot deliver the desired result. so above all we need commitment and the will to a common process, and with a strong will, the renewal of the treaties is certainly possible. the neighbourhood policy has a certain link with the enlargement of the union, but it is an important policy in itself and should not be seen as a substitute for enlargement, and it is clear that the countries interested in joining the european union, at least, do not accept a neighbourhood policy to compensate or replace the prospect of eu membership. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be discussing later this afternoon the european council of this week and its agenda, and i am quite sure that in that debate we shall also return to the subjects already discussed this morning.
member of the commission. mr president, i want to thank you for this very substantive and responsible debate which is so important for the future of europe. this is a very encouraging debate. you may recall that in my introduction i said that in europe we have two discourses that do not often meet: one emphasising the strategic significance of enlargement and the other emphasising only our integration capacity. this debate is encouraging because if you were able to forge a common position starting from the first drafts of the twins – who are not quite identical twins in terms of enlargement strategy – then the european council should certainly be able to forge a renewed consensus on enlargement that respects both the strategic value of enlargement and our capacity to integrate new members. points were made concerning the european neighbourhood policy. indeed the commission’s report of 8 november outlines that not all european countries are engaged in the enlargement process. in fact, the european union has established a variety of relationships with other european countries. we have a comprehensive structure of bilateral agreements with switzerland; we have the european economic area, which is a very far-reaching arrangement of economic integration; and we have the european neighbourhood policy. with regard to the european neighbourhood policy, the commission considers that our recent communication on strengthening the european neighbourhood policy largely responds to the expectations of parliament. the enp is distinct from and parallel to the process of eu enlargement. at the same time the european neighbourhood policy does not prejudge the future development of those countries’ relationships with the european union, in accordance with our treaty provisions. there were some suggestions that cultural criteria should be added to the copenhagen criteria. i can tell you that the commission is not in favour of that proposal. i should like to conclude by referring to some reflections of the sociologist and philosopher ulrich beck in yesterday’s le monde. he interpreted the pope’s recent visit to turkey. here we have a respected sociologist interpreting the actions of a respected spiritual leader. monsieur le président, je vais poursuivre en français et je cite "ce qui fait l'âme de l'europe, c'est le processus d'apprentissage historique, le miracle européen: comment d'ennemis on est devenu des voisins. c'est peut-être la raison pour laquelle le pape, qui a reconnu la signification historique universelle d'un rapprochement entre chrétiens et musulmans, plaide pour la promesse d'une appartenance européenne future et par conséquent pour l'auto-européisation de la turquie". mesdames et messieurs, ce sont de sages paroles qui méritent que l'on y réfléchisse pendant la période de noël et l'année prochaine. (applaudissements)
i should like to inform you that the report by mr jo leinen on the amendment of rules 15 and 182 (1) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament: election of quaestors and bureau of committees, which was due to be voted on tomorrow, thursday, has finally not been approved by the committee on constitutional affairs on the basis of rule 131, and we shall therefore have a debate on it, which is the last item on the agenda for this evening.
the secretary-general informs me that we have some problems with certain auxiliaries who are in a situation of larval conflict. the security officers are trying to make everything go as normal, but we're having trouble with the attitude of some contract officers who are affected by work-type provisions.
mr. zwiefka, i was going to give the floor to mr. florenz. what you are raising is not a point of order relating to today's sitting. (protests) however, this is an important issue and i can tell you that the problem you refer to is also caused by disturbances in the functioning of services arising from the labour conflict we have with some of the assistants. that problem has manifested itself in the same way as the previous speaker has pointed out. the image was retrieved as soon as possible and during the press conference i had the opportunity to explain what had happened to the media which had expressed the same concern as you.
i feel obliged to express on my own behalf, and i suppose i can do so on behalf of the whole of parliament, the concern about the conference on the holocaust which took place in tehran on 11 and 12 december. (applause) on behalf of the european parliament, in plenary, i urge the government of iran to do what it must do to prevent any acts of anti-semitism, racism, xenophobia, discrimination or denial of historical facts and their victims. (applause) i would like to thank
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
mr president, i may be completely wrong, but i do not think we have voted on the original text of recital 44.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council to be held on 14 and 15 december, that is to say from tomorrow.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for this opportunity to discuss the european council on 14 and 15 december in advance in this house. the main topics of tomorrow's summit will be enlargement, improving decision-making in the fields of justice and home affairs and immigration policy. the european council is the meeting of heads of state or government to discuss in depth how the enlargement of the union should be pursued. the june european council gave the president a clear mandate to organise this debate. the european council's discussions will be based on the commission's enlargement strategy, which was published on 8 november, and on the in-depth discussion which took place on monday in the foreign affairs council. as i said this morning, the enlargement debate is intended to confirm the commitments we have made to croatia and turkey, which are now negotiating accession, and to the countries of the western balkans. the european council's enlargement debate is intended to confirm the renewed consensus of the member states on the continuation of the enlargement process. it is based on the principles of the commission's enlargement strategy commitment, conditionality and enhanced communication. at the same time, the union's capacity to welcome new members must also be taken into account. enlargement is not the only issue which will have a significant impact on the future of the union at the summit starting tomorrow. the european council is expected to hold a dinner in which prime minister vanhassen will present to his colleagues his assessment and the main general conclusions of the confidential consultations held during our presidency on the future of the constitutional treaty. the aim of our presidency was to bring the debate on the constitutional treaty into a more active phase after a year of silence. consultations have now taken place with all the member states and with romania and bulgaria, which joined the union at the beginning of the year. it has been positive to note that internal reflection is under way in the member states and has been activated. it is still too early to look for ready-made solutions, but there are certain priorities in the member states' views. we will pass on our detailed analysis to the next german presidency as a basis for further work. one conclusion, which is very important for the future, is that all the member states see the need for treaty reform in order to ensure the union's ability to act. the way forward should now be sought together and the solution should be acceptable to all. the finnish parliament approved the constitutional treaty earlier this month and the president of the republic decided to ratify it last week. finland thus became the 16th member state to ratify the treaty. we wanted to send a signal that we believe the constitutional treaty is a balanced whole. it is a good basis for finding a solution acceptable to all the member states. mr president, citizens expect the european union to take effective action in the fight against international crime, trafficking in human beings and terrorism. however, it has become clear from many experiences that the union is currently unable to respond to this wish of the citizens in the best possible way. we repeatedly find that a small minority of member states veto the adoption of decisions. it is unfortunately easy to give examples: the negotiations on the european arrest warrant took over three years; we have not made any progress in the last two years on the anti-racism framework decision; the negotiations also failed to develop cross-border police investigations. unfortunately, last week the framework decision on the transfer of prisoners also fell to the opposition of one member state. these examples illustrate why finland's eu presidency has made it a priority to develop decision-making, especially in matters related to improving the safety of citizens. we also received a clear mandate from the european council in june. police and criminal justice cooperation is a difficult area. the willingness of the member states to compromise on many important issues is unfortunately very low, since they are able to veto a decision at the very last moment. the results of the negotiations are meagre and progress is slow. some member states have stated that the union should focus on enhancing practical cooperation rather than on improving decision-making. it is by acting that we can best advance our common cause. however, practical cooperation must be based on mutually agreed rules, and we have had great difficulty in agreeing on these rules. this is a problem that cannot be ignored. it is clear that not only citizens but also the member states have been frustrated by the union's actions. this has led to an increasing number of member states considering the possibility of moving to an enhanced cooperation model. some member states have decided to promote their cooperation outside the union's structures, as exemplified by the prüm agreement. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european police college, which would be a new instrument for the protection of the rights of the defence. however, it has become clear during the finnish presidency that the member states are not willing to accept this solution. however, we still believe that we need a more efficient, transparent and responsible decision-making model for police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. we therefore want to make full use of the mandate given to us last june to improve the efficiency of decision-making. the european council is to discuss the question of improving the efficiency of decision-making in the field of justice and home affairs. we hope that the principals will commit themselves to finding a solution to this problem, which has already been solved in the negotiations for a constitutional treaty. the european parliament has made its position on this very clear. the presidency greatly appreciates the speech made by president borrell at the informal meeting of heads of state in lahti, in which you, mr president, clearly expressed the view of the european parliament that the decision-making process in the field of justice and home affairs should be strengthened. ladies and gentlemen, during the finnish presidency a great deal of work has been done on various immigration issues. good progress has been made in implementing the comprehensive approach. it has also proved to be the right approach to this subject. immigration is currently one of the union's greatest challenges, but also an opportunity. the finnish part of the programme has focused particularly on cooperation with african countries. we have organized two successful ministerial conferences focusing on immigration and development. in addition, the european border and coast guard agency (frontex) has coordinated successful operations at the southern borders of the union. the next important step is to extend the principles of the comprehensive approach to other geographical areas and to extend its scope to other policy sectors. we have consistently stressed that the union must be able to create a comprehensive immigration management policy that addresses both illegal and legal immigration issues, including integration. the priorities for next year are to be agreed at the european council tomorrow. the measures to be agreed are based on two communications issued by the commissions last week. it is important that we are able to agree not only on long-term measures but also on those which the union can use to respond to sudden and unexpected flows of migrants. mr president, since finland will only be holding one official european council meeting during its presidency, there are high hopes and expectations for the conclusions to be drawn from the meeting. however, we have long held the view that the conclusions of the european council must be regarded by the capitalists as the true outcome of the discussions. conclusions should not be a mere list of all pending cases and all cases dealt with. this is why we have taken the view in the preparations for the european council that the conclusions should only cover matters which are discussed by the heads of state or government or which require political guidance for the future work of the union. in addition to the topics of discussion i have just mentioned, the conclusions of the european council will therefore include innovation policy, energy policy and climate change as follow-up to the gulf summit. these are important themes for the future of the union and progress on all of them will be monitored at the next spring european council. the foreign ministers' dinner at the european council tomorrow evening will focus on the middle east, including iran, and africa, with particular reference to the situation in sudan and darfur. i hope that we will have an active and fruitful exchange of views on the issues to be discussed at the european council which begins tomorrow. (applause) i would like to thank the
thank you very much, mrs lehtomäki. i would like to conclude by thanking you, on my own behalf and on behalf of all members, for your efforts and work during the finnish presidency which is now ending. you have been present for eight sessions, have taken part in thirty debates on different subjects and have always been at the disposal of parliament and for that you deserve our consideration and thanks. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to point out to the members who are with us in the official gallery, mr ranko krivokapic, president of the parliament of the republic of montenegro, and mrs gordana djurovic, deputy prime minister for european integration. (applause) as you know, the first interparliamentary meeting between the european parliament and montenegro is taking place today, and we wish our guests every success in the meetings they will be holding with us in parliament. thank you for attending our session.
you're not seriously saying that, mr watson?
i am pleased to welcome another delegation to the official gallery. we have with us a delegation led by mr aleskerov, vice-president of the parliament of the republic of azerbaijan and co-chairman of the eu-azerbaijan parliamentary cooperation committee. welcome to the world!
thank you very much, mr cohn-bendit. european energy consumption will have increased slightly during your term.
i should like to announce the presence in the official gallery of a delegation from the syrian parliament, chaired by mr numair ghanem, president of the foreign affairs committee, on his third visit to the european parliament. (applause) mr ghanem, you are welcome! i want to stress the importance of your visit. your country, syria, plays a very important role in the middle east and your visit is of particular relevance, given the times you are passing through that region. syria is also the last country in the euro-mediterranean area with which we have not yet signed an association agreement, even though the negotiations have already been concluded. i am convinced that your contacts with the european parliament will strengthen the parliamentary dialogue and that the interviews you will hold will mark a new stage in the strengthening of relations between the syrian people and the european union. welcome and good stay, mr. ghanem and companions!
mr president, there are many important issues surrounding enlargement. as regards turkey, we can have a consensus concerning the development of enlargement on the basis of the copenhagen criteria. i acknowledge the difficulties involved in turkey joining the european union, but i would also like to point out the dangers we face at the moment. i understand there is an increase in euroscepticism among the turkish population, something that was expressed clearly by the nobel prize winner, orhan pamuk, who wrote about the sadness of a part of turkish society at this process. the european institutions will have to be intelligent and cool-headed to steer the process and make it finish in the right way, that is, with turkey inside the european union and fulfilling the copenhagen criteria. we should also bear in mind, however, the paradox that the copenhagen criteria have not been fulfilled by some eu member states. i am also very pleased about the progress made by croatia, and i hope that in the future we shall also see montenegro doing the same and providing a good example of how to deal with the western balkans.
mr president, the truth is that the construction of reality, of any reality, cannot be done only by narrating and evoking the past. if we do not have before our eyes the horizon of our projects and our possibilities, mr president, we will not be able to build the future, or even to understand the past. i therefore think it is good that the presidency of the council is aware that its role is to try to unite wills and forge consensus so that the european union project can move forward. but that is a necessary but not sufficient condition, because we need to have all the institutions working in harmony. and in that context, i think we should applaud the decision of the general affairs council that the next three presidencies - the german, portuguese and slovenian presidencies - should draw up a strategic plan. but, mr president, the council presidencies in office pass and the commission remains. the commission must therefore be closely associated with this strategic plan for the next three presidencies and the commission must be closely associated with the preparation of the european councils. it is very reassuring to hear the message of the president of the commission, mr barroso, when he speaks to us about the future of europe, when he speaks to us about the internal dimension and the external projection, about the objectives of the lisbon strategy and about the progress that still needs to be made in the areas of security, freedom and justice. mr president, i believe that each institution must play its part in the balance of the treaties, but it is essential, in my view, to restore the harmonious tandem, the strategic alliance between parliament and the commission, which has enabled the european union to make so much progress and achieve so many successes, and which should, in this situation, enable the european union, which some say is in a state of lethargy, in a state of institutional hibernation, to emerge from its lethargy and take a decisive step in the right direction.
mr president, i shall concentrate on two issues at the next european council. first, the enlargement. enlargement has been and is a success for the european union; it has been fruitful at political and economic level and has strengthened europe's role in the world. i am sure that it will have a positive effect on bulgaria and romania. the fifth enlargement has demonstrated the so-called 'transformative power of the union', which has stimulated profound and positive political, economic and social changes in countries that until recently were under the communist yoke, but enlargement, as a success story, needs to be told well. i therefore support the importance which the commission attaches to the communication. in other words, citizens should be better informed about the benefits it brings. i hope that the next european council will also be aware of this. i also agree with the idea of conditionality. the candidate countries have to fulfil their commitments and carry out the necessary reforms. the union's ability to integrate all these countries must of course be borne in mind throughout the process. the enlargement process cannot go on indefinitely, and i therefore also agree with the commission's idea of consolidation. the other issue is immigration. in my country, unfortunately, illegal immigration is a very topical issue. i would like to stress, mr president, the central role that illegal immigration must play in the union's relations with third countries. i welcome the fact that during the finnish presidency the european union has held ministerial meetings on immigration and development with african countries in rabat and tripoli, but the point is to move from the final conclusions to the facts. for example, it is essential to sign readmission agreements; unfortunately, we are far from that. how long has the commission been negotiating the readmission agreement with morocco and the acp countries? we have the cotonou agreement and, despite article 13, neither readmissions nor readmission agreements are moving forward. i am also a little concerned about the optimism i have heard here today about the frontex situation. mr president, illegal immigration is a very serious problem with far-reaching consequences, and an area without frontiers, such as schengen, affects us all. we must be firm and tenacious so that the declarations and commitments made at so many ministerial conferences can become reality. the next european council should make a strong push towards this objective.
president of the council. mr president, the council's work is aimed at ensuring continuity in all policy areas. the finnish presidency has worked very closely with the next german presidency in various policy areas and i am confident that the good policies will continue and be strengthened during the next presidency.
president of the council. mr president, tax incentives can also be used to improve the reconciliation of work and family life, but as the honourable member will be aware, there is still very little harmonisation at european union level on taxation. however, it is important to consider these issues from a family-friendly perspective as one of the criteria.
madam president, at the moment the welfare of children in the european union still faces some difficulties, but they are more or less resolved. but what about children who are in the european union but are not citizens of the european union? there is international legislation to protect these children, but in certain regions, for example, there is an accumulation of children who are immigrants and cannot be returned to their countries of origin, and the responsibility has to be taken on by regional or local authorities. has the council considered taking any action with regard to immigrant children within the european union?
president of the council. mr president, the integration issue in immigration policy is an important sector which also has a direct impact on the lives of immigrant children. in families that are the subject of active integration measures, the living conditions of the children and their integration into the new european place of residence are also likely to be better and more effective. as i said in my original reply, the commission has issued a communication on the promotion of children's rights in the union, and this of course also applies to non-native citizens of the european union. the european union-wide action programme against social exclusion also contributes to improving the exchange of information to prevent social exclusion.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the hague programme on strengthening freedom, security and justice in the european union, adopted in november 2004, and the related 2005 council and commission action plan, establish the framework for developing an eu policy on legal immigration. the hague programme already recognises the important role of legal immigration in promoting, among other things, the economic development of the union. the same programme states that it is the responsibility of the member states to decide on the number of legal immigrants. on this basis, the commission is to submit for adoption a number of legislative proposals set out in the action plan on legal immigration adopted in january 2006. the first of these is the proposal for a general framework directive, the main purpose of which is to guarantee common rights for all third-country nationals who are already legally working in a member state but who are not yet entitled to long-term resident status in the eu. in addition, the commission will submit four separate proposals for directives based on the categories of workers that member states generally require. these proposals concern the conditions of entry and residence of highly qualified workers, the conditions of entry and residence of seasonal workers, the conditions of entry and residence of trainees on a paid basis and the procedures governing the entry and residence of persons temporarily posted by their companies to another country. improving the availability of information on the different aspects of migration, the exchange of information on them and the dissemination of information more effectively are also key. to this end, a number of instruments are to be developed in the coming years. there are five in all, the first being the european year of labour mobility this year and the second the european year of equal opportunities next year. the second instrument is the eu immigration portal, which is due to be set up by the end of next year. the third instrument is the system for mutual information on member states' measures in the field of asylum and immigration. the fourth instrument is the european migration network and the fifth instrument is the further development of the european professional mobility portal and the eures network, which are considered to be able to contribute to the management of economic migration. as regards the integration of third-country nationals into the society of the host country, which was already discussed in the previous question, the union supports the integration policies of the member states through various financial instruments, including preparatory measures for the integration of third-country nationals. in the context of the financial perspective 2007-13, the new dedicated solidarity instrument, the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals, will give new impetus to integration policy in the member states. the objectives of the fund are linked to the challenges of integration and thus complement the activities of the european social fund. these objectives are based on the general principles on integration adopted by the council in november 2004.
mr president, the number of questions that have been asked on this subject shows the interest that the representatives of the peoples of europe have in immigration issues at this time. i would like to congratulate the finnish presidency on the importance it has attached to this issue. my supplementary question is: does the presidency not believe that immigration is now a community matter and that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it cannot be left to the states but must be left to the european union? in particular, does the presidency of the council not think that the time has come to apply the bridge clause? as regards the previous question, it did not concern immigrant children who are in europe with their families, but immigrant children who arrive alone in the european union: no one is looking after them and the governments do not know what to do.
mr president, i think we should especially thank the rapporteur, mr grosch, for this christmas present which the european union is going to give to three hundred million european citizens. it is true that in this role of santa claus or early magi, you have been accompanied by commissioner barrot and his services, as well as the alternative rapporteurs, with whom you have done an excellent job. thank you, mr grosch. thank you for adding to the road safety elements, such important elements as anti-fraud and permit tourism with improved control through the networked database. for a tourist country like mine, that was essential and urgent, and even more so now that the application of the point permit is creating an absolutely unthinkable tourism of new permits across the border or on the internet, as mr titley has just said. in relation to motorcycles, a wisely introduced stepwise approach to education has helped our young people to grow up, although some of them believe they can go faster. the provisions relating to trailers and motorhomes improve control without increasing loads. i also thank you for the fact that, through this instrument, the free movement of persons is being made more visible and applied. this instrument will also be very useful for professional drivers. it is true that the deadlines seem eternal to us, but i share the rapporteur's optimism that in practice the change will be made more quickly. citizens almost always get ahead of their legislators. finally, although the rapporteur warns us that the periodic and compulsory renewal of licences does not imply a mandatory prescription of revalidation, medical or eye examinations for the suitability of the driver, i think we have an excellent basis for moving towards a future practical consensus on this new aspect. i am also optimistic about this and therefore encourage mr grosch to work successfully on this new element.
mr president, i shall begin with mr seppänen's report. the rapporteur has once again demonstrated his great experience in this area and his capacity for consensus by securing a large majority in the committee on industry, research and energy. i think the result has been excellent and we must avoid deviating from it by adopting amendments which are contrary to the spirit of the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the nuclear safety. i understand that some members would prefer not to deal with the subject, to avoid opening a polemical debate, but we must be courageous and, for once, objectively and without prejudice admit the significant contribution of this energy source to security of supply and to the fight against climate change. i want to quote a few words, and i'm going to quote them very literally, mrs harms, from greenpeace co-founder patrick moore: 'wind and solar have their place, but because they are intermittent and unpredictable, they cannot replace large coal, nuclear and hydroelectric plants. natural gas is already expensive enough, and its price is unstable; given that hydroelectric resources are running at full capacity, nuclear energy is, by elimination, the only viable alternative to coal. that seems to me to be an undeniable statement. i agree with you that iran, with its nuclear enrichment programme, is a very serious threat to global stability and security, but the consequence is the opposite, mrs harm. the consequence is that we must increase our energy independence. i mean, the consequence is exactly the opposite of what you say. we have to stop attributing political color to kilowatts. there are no kilowatts left and right, there are sources that emit greenhouse gases and sources that are free of these emissions. renewable energy and nuclear energy should be seen as complementary and not as opposing.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and point out that the energy problem, which is at the heart of our concerns today, will certainly be at the heart of our concerns in the coming years, and probably to a greater extent. as the rapporteurs have said, i believe that the proposals in the commission's green paper are timely and necessary, and that the work being done by commissioner piebalgs deserves to be highlighted. having said that, i simply want to say that consumers must of course be at the centre of energy policy, since this is a public service to which all people should have access, not just those who are interested in the market. i think that in recent years the priority has been given to the completion of the european market, but that has proved to be an insufficient commitment. the reluctance of the states to implement the legislation is great, and we find reluctance in many countries. this week the commission sent reasoned opinions to 16 member states. i think we have to ask ourselves why the market is not moving forward and why there is not enough confidence, and the answer lies in the need for a common energy policy, and not just in the external sphere. we need cooperation and solidarity between the states, because otherwise it will be very difficult to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves and the challenges we face.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs morgan and the other rapporteurs. i would like to stress the need to support research and development into new, cleaner energy technologies which can meet our needs, and what this means in terms of investment in r & d. it is true that the seventh framework programme provides for investments of eur 2 350 million, that the seventh euratom framework programme also funds research into fusion energy, nuclear fission and radiation protection, and that the competitiveness and innovation programme also provides for resources to finance energy innovation. but our investment in r & d in this area is still considerably lower than that of japan and the united states, and most of it is devoted to research into conventional energy sources, which shows a clear imbalance between investment in r & d and the obligations generated by a sustainable and ambitious energy policy, such as the one we are discussing today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the community's energy policy.
ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, last night brought us sad news. at the end of the day we learned that loyola de palacio, vice-president of the european commission, minister of the spanish government, leader of the popular party in the 1999 elections, had died. he lived the last months of his life with a courage in the face of illness that should be an example to us all. loyola de palacio, who was responsible for relations with the european parliament when she was vice-president of the commission and before that a member of the european parliament, was a strong person, a determined and strong interlocutor, always loyal to her values and to the values of europe. loyola, a tireless worker, with a plain and open attitude towards the people around her, was easily appreciated for her firmness and direct language, in the office and in the halls of the house. and i can say that because i had the opportunity to treat her a lot. i was a minister in the spanish government and she was the whip of the opposition. we had strong discussions but always full of content and good human relations. her death is sad news for all of us who knew her. and i want to tell you that my feeling today is much more than institutional and political. it's also, believe me, personal. i'm sure everyone who knew her mourns her death. and i am sure the commission will want to add something to my words.
the commission's vice-president mr president, on behalf of josé manuel barroso, president of our commission, and on behalf of the commission and mrs grybauskaitė, who is standing beside me, i would like to thank you for the tribute you paid to mrs loyola de palacio and to join in the sorrow of this parliament. like many europeans, i am deeply affected by the news of the sudden death of mrs loyola de palacio. everyone who knew her admired her energy, her courage to the end, mr president. a woman of conviction and a committed european, ms loyola de palacio left her mark on the european commission, of which she was vice-president from 1999 to 2004. in particular, it has worked to advance the europe of transport and the europe of energy. as the person responsible for relations with the european parliament, she was able to establish a trusting and fruitful cooperation with it and with all the european parliamentarians, to the benefit of the union. until the end, she worked tirelessly for europe. she had thus continued to work alongside me as coordinator for the construction of the transeuropean transport networks and their extension to the neighbouring countries of the union. like many of you, i am losing in mrs loyola de palacio a friend from whom i have always been able to find wise advice and unfailing support. i thank parliament for joining in this tribute. (applause) i would like to thank
let the moment of death serve to put our problems and our differences into their proper place. let's have a moment of silence in memory of our colleague. (applause) the house, on its feet, will observe a minute's silence.
the next item is the voting period.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have moved on to the second reading of the 2007 budget. it is the first budget of the enlarged eu of 27 member states. it is also the first budget of the 2007-13 financial framework. i am pleased to note that the agreement reached between parliament and the council at the conciliation meeting of 21 november 2006, which was finalised at the trialogue meeting of 28 november, has now been incorporated into the 2007 budget. i note that there are small differences of interpretation on the classification of expenditure in the budget and i would like to remind you that the council reserves its right in this respect. the council may adopt the ceiling for the increase in expenditure proposed by parliament at second reading. i would now like to thank the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr janusz lewandowsk, and the rapporteurs, mr james elles and mr louis grech, for the spirit of cooperation which prevailed throughout the budgetary procedure. (applause) i would like to thank the
ladies and gentlemen, i note that the 2007 budgetary procedure was conducted in accordance with the treaty and the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999 and that, in accordance with article 13 of the agreement between the council and parliament, there was explicit agreement on the maximum rate of increase for non-compulsory expenditure, as is clear from parliament's second reading. the budgetary procedure can therefore be considered to have been successfully concluded. the budget is now definitively adopted. (the president of parliament, together with the president-in-office of the council, has invited the president-in-office of the council, mrs ulla-maj wideroos, the commission representative, mrs dalia grybauskaite, the president of the committee on budgets, mr janusz lewandowski, and the rapporteurs, mr james elles and mr louis grech, to accompany him. the president of parliament, together with the president-in-office of the council, has signed the budget.) (applause)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the hague conference has been working since 1893 to bring about a progressive unification of the rules of private international law worldwide by means of conventions. on 5 october the european council, after consulting parliament, adopted a decision on the accession of the european community to the conference. the current initiative arises in connection with the convention on the law applicable to certain rights in securities deposited with an intermediary, which was negotiated at three sessions of the diplomatic conference in december 2002. the convention is open to all parties and, although the european community was not a member of the conference which drew up the convention, the commission submitted a proposal for a decision on 15 december 2003 for its signature. the first objective of this initiative is to demonstrate the need to respect the european parliament's powers in this area and to ensure more democratic control of the work of the conference. the scope of the convention directly affects the competences of the european union on judicial cooperation in civil matters with cross-border implications to the extent necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market, in which the european parliament has the status of co-legislator. in addition, in the view of the european central bank, it may have implications for the definition and implementation of monetary policy, the operation of clearing and payment systems and the effectiveness of the provisions forming part of the community acquis. the proposed signing of the convention raises important concerns and serious concerns at the level of the european union, affecting both form and substance. the heart of the convention, contained in article 4, which states that the law applicable in this matter is that of the state expressly agreed by the contracting parties, raises enormous risks and questions which have not yet been resolved. the magnitude of the legislative impact it can have requires the application of community standards to better legislate, hence a process of consultation and public debate, as was done in the united states when legislative changes were made that were inferior to those proposed in the convention. the convention introduces further complexity and uncertainty by opening up the possibility for numerous legal systems to apply to a single system of registration, clearing and settlement. this, in the absence of harmonisation on substantive issues, can lead to adverse effects and systemic risk. the solution he proposes, far from contributing to the unifying purpose of the conference, increases its incoherence and is incompatible with community legislation which establishes the criterion of the location of the portfolio of securities. this criterion had helped to increase certainty and efficiency at community level. under the convention, the bargaining power will determine the applicable law. this opens the door to legislative delocalisation, to the detriment of investors and financial institutions. its entry into force may encourage an uncontrolled process of global and regional consolidation of clearing and settlement activities, increasing the risk of concentration outside the european union and with perverse effects on prudential supervision, the prevention of terrorist financing and the fight against money laundering. the formula chosen may have an impact on investors' political rights, transparency and good corporate governance. it raises a number of doubts, and therefore, commissioner, either a more thorough impact study is carried out or the proposal is abandoned and withdrawn.
author. - mr president, i too share the view that this coup d'état, the fourth in twenty years, in a former british colony, which is in fact one of the richest, most developed and tourist-oriented nations in the south pacific, should be condemned. commodore frank bainamarama, commander of the fijian army, deposed the elected prime minister and seized power in a clearly illegitimate way. he said he was assuming the powers of president ratu josefa iloilo and prime minister laisenia qarase on a transitional basis to re-establish them in the future, without determining at what point he would raise the electoral process. the situation is clearly complex, uncertain and worrying. the secretary-general of the united nations himself made this clear recently: he condemned the military coup. and i think that is exactly what we have to do in this house. we must not only condemn the coup, but also make an explicit call for the release of the prisoners and hostages and for the restoration of the order and the rule of law which made it possible, at the time, for the elections to take place in a normal and acceptable manner in a democratic context. but in addition to this, we must also remember the responsibility of the european union. we have a very strong instrument here: the cotonou agreement. we have the possibility of using that framework to be able to by suspending non-humanitarian aid to fiji to lobby and get political change in the region, as long as we also keep in mind that this should not be to the detriment of humanitarian aid and some educational projects that are already under way. i also want to support the amendment tabled by mr pflüger, which calls for these measures to also help ensure that the fijians of indian origin are not forced to flee and that, in any event, the dialogue that exists in the region includes all the communities living in the country today.
author. mr president, why are we talking about the united nations here? because the european union is the main funder for this wonderful invention of the united nations to work. i'm here with nirj deva, who is a passionate advocate for the necessary role that the united nations has to play in the world. one hundred thousand people are working to keep the peace in the world within the united nations, and the whole of the practice is doing a very good job, but there are accusations and convictions for crimes of sexual abuse, of child prostitution, of paedophilia. there have been in the republic of congo, there have been in kosovo and now in liberia and haiti, which i have just returned from. in these years, since 1994, more than 300 cases of sexual offences against children, against people with limited resources, have been investigated among the 100,000 troops deployed in the peacekeeping forces. as a result of the three hundred and nineteen cases investigated, one hundred and seventy-nine soldiers have been convicted. if we are going to keep the peace and we need the un member states to send troops, we have to make sure that they are going to keep the peace, not to go on a sex holiday paid for, mainly, with european money. this resolution therefore intends to praise the role of the united nations, but it also intends to say that we need member states responsible for soldiers and peacekeepers to behave in a civic and human rights-respecting manner. so stop the further rape of children and women, stop pedophilia, stop using european funds through the united nations to commit sexual crimes.
author. mr president, maximum support for the un is a strategic priority of the european union in its foreign policy. this has been reiterated by our parliament, with particular appreciation for the actions in the field of conflict prevention and peace missions. this support was expressed once again by the parliament's delegation which visited new york a few weeks ago and met with the secretary-general and those responsible for peacekeeping operations. what we have just said is consistent with the house's decision to award the sakharov prize to kofi annan, precisely for the work that has been done in the field in question. it is therefore in the context of the solidarity with which the european union views the difficult work of the un in this area that the resolution we are going to adopt should be understood. it is regrettable and very damaging to the organisation itself that some of the staff who work under its flag have behaved criminally, committing proven sexual assaults on women and children in the countries where they carried out their mission. such behaviour tarnishes the image of the un itself, which is also under heavy pressure from those in the world who, contrary to what we think, would prefer to see its role very limited, in a unilateralist perspective of international relations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the united nations must also be urged to exercise the utmost care in the selection and training of those who, either as un agents or as collaborators of member states or associated ngos, are involved in these tasks. for the un and for those of us who identify with it, it is essential to clear up any doubts about the assessment that the reported behaviour deserves, and it is the responsibility of all of us that there is no impunity for those who have been responsible for it.
mr president, if it is already unacceptable that someone exploits and abuses women and children by taking advantage of their helplessness and vulnerability, as we are seeing on a daily basis in afghanistan or - and this has also been mentioned recently - in the case of sudan or the republic of congo, it is already completely unforgivable that the person responsible for these abuses is also the one who has the responsibility to protect them. this is particularly serious if, in addition, it is un personnel under the banner, as has been said, of protecting not only the lives and dignity of those people, but peace as a concept. the constant incidents of sexual violence, such as those committed in haiti or liberia by un personnel and, in particular, by soldiers, civilian personnel and police, cannot, under any circumstances, be ignored or left unpunished. and they must be properly convicted and sanctioned. in this regard, it is extremely worrying that staff expelled from the organisation for sexual exploitation or abuse are rarely prosecuted in their countries. there is therefore a responsibility on the part of the governments of these countries, and it is therefore also necessary that impunity for such acts should not be accepted under any circumstances, which necessarily implies that progress should be made towards the adoption of an international treaty which clearly, in a binding and punitive manner, can control and regulate such practices when they are committed. it is absolutely unacceptable that there should be any kind of mitigation in this respect. i think it is necessary, first of all, to apply de facto the basic and classic principle of zero tolerance, as the un secretary-general kofi annan himself has said on several occasions. secondly, we must also address the issue from the perspective of the vulnerability of women living in post-war conflict situations. it is therefore important to give priority to the empowerment of women in aid programmes so that they themselves can defend themselves in these contexts and are less vulnerable than they are now.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 14 december 2006.
the minutes of the sitting of 14 december 2006 have been distributed. does anyone wish to speak on this?
i shall be very brief, mr president. last week in strasbourg, parliament adopted a number of important reports, including the ten proposals on the financial perspectives for the area of freedom, security and justice for the period 2007-13. i simply wanted to take this opportunity of the adoption of the minutes to express my thanks to the libe committee for the exceptional work it had to do in a short time, but also to the parliament's services who were able to correct some disturbing clerical errors and provide translations of the reports originally tabled by the libe committee. the texts now reflect the wishes of the plenary, and i would also like to thank the council services, who have provided us with the translations of the texts on which we were able to reach complete agreement.
i would like to thank mr cavada for his comments, which are certainly relevant and reflect the efforts of his committee and all those who have worked with it to achieve this important result. i congratulate you and all those involved in this process.
thank you, mr. corbett, for your request, which also seems pertinent. as you know, we have a problem with translations. i have been informed by the services of the house that every effort is being made to ensure that a provisional version in all languages is available in january. that version will have to be regarded as provisional, but in any case it is good that it is made available to members as soon as possible. it seems that your request will be granted and we will have a provisional version in all the languages in january. then we will have to check them to make sure that the translations are correct before we can finally consider that this process of reforming our rules of procedure has also been completed. (the minutes were approved)
before entering the agenda, i should like to welcome a delegation from the pan-african parliament, led by her excellency mrs gertrude mongella, president of the pan-african parliament, who is in the official gallery. (applause) madam president, your delegation will be exchanging views today with our committee on development and with the delegation for relations with the pan-african parliament. meetings with representatives of the various services of the european parliament are also planned, with a view to developing the administrative structure of your parliament and strengthening relations between our two institutions. i wish you a happy and fruitful stay in brussels.
we will now proceed to the joint signing of the reach programme and the seventh framework programme for research. i think it is good that we should take a few minutes to solemnly sign in public, in the house, two important pieces of european legislation that have just been adopted by parliament and the council: reach, the regulation regulating the chemical industry and its environmental impact, and the seventh framework programme for research. the joint signing of acts adopted under the codecision procedure is, as you know very well, the last stage in the union's 'long and complex' legislative process before their publication in the official journal. it is the moment when the two co-legislators (council and parliament) put their political stamp on the new legislation. i am therefore pleased to welcome the prime minister of finland, who represents the presidency of the council and who will be signing these important acts with me, to this house this morning. we also have mr barroso with us, whom i shall invite to join us in the signature photo. i would also like to thank those members of the european parliament who have been most closely associated with these two new pieces of legislation and whom i will also be asking to act as witnesses at the signing: the chairman of the environment committee, mr florenz; the reach rapporteur, mr sacconi; the vice-chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, mr ransdorf; and the three rapporteurs on the seventh framework programme for research, mr buzek, mr busquin and mrs laperrouze. before we proceed to the signing i think it is also appropriate that mr vanhanen, if he wishes, should speak.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to be here today. this signing ceremony is a historic moment. reach is a comprehensive reform of the eu's chemicals legislation. the regulation is a major leap forward compared to the current control system, which is about 40 years old. the aim of reach is to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment and to increase the competitiveness of the eu chemicals industry by setting high safety standards and promoting product development. reach establishes a european chemicals agency, which is responsible for, among other things, the registration of substances. the adoption of the regulation is a truly significant achievement. it is also a great example of good cooperation between the council and the european parliament. however, it should be noted that work still needs to be continued. we must now all work together to ensure that the regulation is effectively implemented. ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that today's signing ceremony will enable us to finalise the results of our cooperation also in the seventh framework programme for research. research and development activities play an important role in promoting european competitiveness and in achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy. the research framework programme is the community's main instrument for achieving these objectives. it will also be an important instrument in developing a new comprehensive innovation policy, which has also been one of the main themes of the finnish presidency. i can once again warmly thank the european parliament for its good cooperation in the negotiations on the research framework programme. we wouldn't be here if it wasn't for you. i am very pleased that the research framework programme will start in early 2007 in line with the target timetable. (applause) i would like to thank the
continuing our work and in accordance with the agenda, we will proceed to the joint debate based on the european council report and the commission statement on the european council meeting of 14 and 15 december 2006 and the statement by the presidency-in-office of the council on the six-month period of the finnish presidency.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the pleasure of speaking to you once again today in my capacity as president of the european council. the european council of the finnish presidency met in brussels on 14 and 15 december. i intend to tell you the results of our meeting. at the same time, finland's six months as president of the council are coming to an end and i would like to tell you what we have done during our term of office for our common union. we warmly thanked the president of parliament, mr josep borrell, at the european council last thursday for his departure from the presidency. i would also like to thank him for his important contribution to europe. mr president, mr borrell, it has been a pleasure working with you. we have achieved many good results, for which we thank you warmly. we really appreciate your work. (applause) i would like to thank the i would also like to thank the european parliament for all its support and joint efforts. we have achieved remarkable results together. the eu chemicals legislation reach has finally been adopted. this is the legislation that consumers and industry have been waiting for. we also got the service directive. it will create the largest market for services in the world. the 7th framework programme for research is building the foundations of european competitiveness. i said at the beginning of our presidency that the european parliament is more and more clearly the place where good european solutions are found, even for complex problems. i am firmly behind this view and i would like to thank parliament warmly today for the good cooperation and express my appreciation for the work of this parliament. we are moving towards a more political europe, in which parliament is an increasingly important actor. the main topics of the december european council were enlargement policy, justice and home affairs and consolidating the results of the informal summit in lahore. the european council's conclusions are available to you, so i will not go into them in detail, but i would like to draw your attention to a few points of the main line solutions. the council held a thorough and wide-ranging debate on the union's enlargement policy in the spirit of the mandate given by the european council in june. i would like to repeat here the basic point that the enlargement policy of the union has been a great success. the union has succeeded in bringing europe together, in overcoming the divisions of the cold war. the european union is now a proud union of 25 member states, and since the beginning of the year, a union of 27. it is a pleasure to welcome bulgaria and romania into our common european family. turkey's membership was not on the agenda of the european council. decisions on its accession process were taken in the general affairs and external relations council which preceded the european council. the eu is therefore capable of making decisions. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the agreement with the united states. we have not succeeded in this and that is why we had to decide on measures for turkey. this was a clear situation. turkey has not fulfilled its commitments and there are consequences. i would like to stress, however, that turkey is a country whose future lies in the european union. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment, and the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment. the european council's final outcome is that the union remains open to new members. enlargement is continuing and those applicants who meet the demanding conditions of the union can become its members. this open prospect of membership is essential for european stability, it encourages our neighbours to reform, to take the european path. this is the incentive they should not be deprived of. the finnish presidency of the council set itself the objective of keeping the union's enlargement policy open and not closing the door to qualified applicants. we did it. our future is a stronger and more open union. the discussions have shown that the prospect of accession for the western balkans is real. the region has a clear future in the eu. this is essential to us. at the same time, it is clear that the union's enlargement policy must be pursued in a linear fashion. the counterbalance to an open door is a strict probation. there are no shortcuts to membership of the union, but membership follows the fulfilment of the membership requirements. it was very important that there was no debate on the limits of enlargement of the union, because there was no place for it. the union must not be constrained by artificial borders. our true borders are not on a map, but in values. the construction of europe is still in progress. in our immediate neighbourhood, for example, there is a black hole of democracy, a european stain of shame, like belarus. we don't need these in europe anymore. (applause) i would like to thank the mr president, i gave the european council an assessment of the state of the treaty. during our presidency we have had a systematic discussion with all the member states on the withdrawal agreement. i will not go into the positions of individual member states, we are committed to this confidentiality, but i would like to give you the overall picture that the presidency has formed as a result of our consultation. first of all, the atmosphere has changed during our presidency. at the beginning, the dream of roses was still dormant and the treaty was not actively considered. the member states are now actively reflecting on the future and many feel that the agreement was in fact a well-thought-out and successful package. however, we are faced with the dilemma that it cannot be offered again to the member states which have abandoned the agreement in a form which is literally similar, but which is nevertheless balanced as a whole. disrupting this balance will cause more problems than it will solve. there is therefore a broad consensus that negotiations cannot be resumed as if there were no agreement. the institutional provisions of the treaty in particular are the result of lengthy negotiations and deliberation. it's hard to open them without causing new problems. at the same time, i would like to express my personal view that the fact that the agreement is being torn up is only a facade. for example, we cannot separate part i from part iii, and the competences of the union and the member states must be precisely delimited. part ii of the constitution, on the other hand, sets out the fundamental values which are essential to the union, and i do not see why they should be forgotten. at present, 16 member states have ratified the treaty and, as the year turns, we are 18. but this is a question that mass power cannot solve. the treaty will not enter into force unless 27 member states ratify it. it seems natural to seek a solution before the 2009 european elections and the new commission. however, at the moment the fact is that the constitutional treaty is still on ice and we are about to hand the keys to the game to germany, whose presidency we expect to make progress on this difficult issue. but at the same time it is important to make progress in european cooperation by all the practical means at our disposal. justice and home affairs is one prime example. the citizens expect concrete action to improve security and justice. there is a serious problem with the justice and home affairs. the requirement of unanimity in police and criminal matters prevents genuine progress in cooperation. in cooperation that is important to the citizens. citizens have a right to expect better cooperation in promoting security and combating crime. today, however, decisions on cooperation are either watered down or unable to be taken, as we have seen recently with the transfer of prisoners. the unanimity requirement is a legal and internal affairs bullet that prevents genuine progress. we would have a method for improving the efficiency of decision-making in the field of justice and home affairs, article 42 of the treaty, the so-called passerelle, which would allow us to decide unanimously to move to qualified majority voting. finland, as the presidency, went out in earnest to explore this possibility, but already in september, at the meeting of the ministers of justice and the ministers of the interior in tampere, it became clear that many member states were opposed to this. this avenue is closed to us. i am therefore pleased that, despite all this, the european council has now sent a clear message that it is important to improve the efficiency of decision-making in the field of justice and home affairs by adopting the principle enshrined in the treaty, namely the qualified majority. this is a major attitude breakthrough, and we can be pleased about it. this decision must be respected by future presidents. i would like to say in this context that if i could change one thing in the union at all, with the experience of the presidency here and now, i would significantly increase the qualified majority decisionmaking. it is by far the most efficient, fairest and best way to reach good decisions. the unanimity requirement is unreasonable in the interests of the european union as a whole in all matters other than those which are absolutely necessary. the european council discussed in depth the union's immigration policy. we all remember in a spirit of solidarity the problems faced by our mediterranean member states in the summer. the finnish presidency took on the challenge of illegal immigration in an active way and the issue was already discussed at the extraordinary summit in lahti. at the european council in december, we agreed on a comprehensive approach to migration, both legal and illegal, and we recognised the multi-sectoral nature of the phenomenon. immigration is not the first priority and not just better border controls, but also the development of immigration in the countries of origin, transit and a controlled immigration policy, which europe desperately needs because of its own ageing population. europe is not an isolated island. the european council also confirmed the important results of the informal summit in lahore. we agree that europe needs a more determined innovation policy. we cannot maintain our present prosperity unless we are genuinely competitive in the future and our success is based on competence. finland's presidency has marked the placing of innovation at the heart of competitiveness policy and the promotion of innovation must be an integral part of the eu's competitiveness strategy. now that the groundwork has been laid, we expect forward-looking guidelines on innovation policy from the european council in spring. the sustainability and competitiveness of the union's economic growth also depends on our ability to agree on common energy policy objectives and to establish broad global cooperation to manage climate change. these issues have been the focus of our increased attention during the finnish presidency. at the same time, they have been among the main areas of cooperation in discussions with russia, the united states and our asian partners this autumn. the european council conclusions on energy and climate are an indication of better coherence in the way they are paving the way for the union to take these issues to the forefront of the german spring summit. i have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that on friday i received direct feedback from the press that this european council was boring for them: decisions without drama and last-minute decisions made in the dark. if boring is about making decisions and making them systematically and on schedule, then i can say that i'm boring and proud of it. europe needs concrete results, not artificial political drama. i am convinced that this europe of results, which president barroso of the commission so often emphasises, is the best way to take the union forward. we need concrete solutions that benefit the citizens. only on this basis can we build the legitimacy on which to build big solutions like the constitutional treaty. mr president, there are 13 days left of the finnish presidency. we're gonna finish our mission at the last minute. one of the key themes of our debate has been the strengthening of the unity of the union. we cannot succeed in the world unless we are able to act more coherently in our external relations. in the early days of the finnish season, we experienced a serious crisis in the middle east, culminating in a serious warlike situation in lebanon. i am proud to say that the eu took a strong and united position on lebanon, acted decisively in the un security council to secure the appropriate resolutions and - most importantly - was able to mobilise the military forces that would have been decisive for the success of a sufficiently strong un operation in lebanon. the summer in lebanon was a demanding test, but the union has managed to emerge from the crisis in a very commendable way. i would like to thank all the member states for the support which the president has received in resolving this matter. it is essential that we have a union that is united and determined in its external relations and capable of using its wide range of instruments to promote a better world. the union is the world's leading actor in many areas after enlargement and this situation must be exploited to the full. we have also done a lot during our presidency, for example, to improve the coherence of development policy, which is a key issue for a major global actor such as the eu. we have made it one of our priorities to strengthen the union's policy towards russia. here again we see clearly the practical significance of the single policy. at the informal meeting in lahti we had a good discussion with russian president putin and the eu was able to present a unified message to russia. it is clear that russia is an important partner for the eu. a glance at the map will suffice to illustrate this fact. russia is important to the eu, we are bound to each other by many ties, but at the same time we must be honest and say that we are concerned about many aspects of russia's development. i'm not convinced that russia is going in the right direction. we need a more determined commitment to democracy, the rule of law and the market economy. we don't want russia to go in an authoritarian direction. we have every right to be concerned about russia's development. russia is the touchstone of european unity. finland would have liked to reach an agreement on the opening of negotiations for a new and comprehensive agreement with russia. this is the understanding which we have not yet reached, for reasons which are well known. i think the new agreement clearly shows what the problem is that we have on our hands. we need a common and strong agreement that contains the most important foundation of our cooperation, the values, and provides a sustainable basis for trade and energy cooperation. if a single agreement is not reached, the unfortunate and short-sighted development is the network of bilateral agreements in which russia can treat eu member states differently. some get good deals, some get bad deals, some may not get any. at the same time, it is self-evident that the eu as a whole is such an important partner for russia that it is able to negotiate a proper agreement as a whole. what kind of united europe is it if we compete with each other to see who gets the best terms? this is not european solidarity. ladies and gentlemen, the presidency is beginning with the greatest ambition, but a lively life will bring us all back to the country. we have achieved a great deal, but we have missed many essential things. finland is seriously seeking a solution to the reform of the working time directive and i believe we are getting quite close. but it wasn't enough. the problem is not gone, however, and i wish the future presidents the best of luck in solving this european question. i am sorry to say that this is the last time i will be speaking in this house as the representative of the finnish presidency. i have excellent memories now of good cooperation with parliament and i would like to thank all of you for the support you have given to finland's efforts. i believe that the future of europe is shared. a more united europe, where borders disappear. i am particularly pleased that we have achieved a result in the enlargement of the schengen area. this is the practical progress that the citizens expect from us as decision-makers. once again, i would like to express my warm thanks to the european parliament for its excellent cooperation. (applause) i would like to thank the
i would also like to thank you, mr vanhanen, on behalf of the european parliament, for your excellent cooperation and your constant presence, you and your ministers, in particular your minister for european affairs, mrs lehtomäki. the attention paid to the european parliament has resulted in tangible and concrete legislative results that will mark our history, such as the one we have just signed or the services directive. thank you all.
thank you, mr poettering, for your intervention and for your words. you will have noticed that the presidency has not exercised a strict control of time given the special circumstances of mr poettering's speech and will do so with the other speeches.
the european parliament rarely has that much time. don't abuse that.
thank you, mr watson. i see the christmas spirit is taking over all of us.
british humour!
thank you very much, mr dillen. we have finished with the speeches by the spokesmen on behalf of the groups. the individual members who have asked to speak will then take the floor.
thank you very much. i wish you the same, mr. hökmark.
thank you very much, mr zaleski, i congratulate you on your perfect command of spanish. it's an incentive for me to try to learn their language too. you're a perfect spanish speaker.
thank you very much, mr buzek. we have now finished the speaking time on the basis of the procedure for granting the floor without a list of speakers. the president of the council and the president of the commission have the floor. parliament will understand that you do not answer all the questions put to you in full.
president of the council. mr president, thank you for giving me the freedom to comment on any and all opinions, especially those which were agreed with me. but i want to highlight one where the speaker clearly disagreed: nigel farage, who said we want more power for the union. that is not the point, but the union has been given very broad powers. it is a question of the union also having the means and instruments to exercise its powers. in politics, in all the exercises of power, the most important thing is that when you give someone a task and power, you must also have the means to use it. in particular, the council does not currently have this means of action because of the decision-making and voting systems and the unanimity requirements. the work of parliament shows that despite ideological differences it is able to take decisions almost always by voting, but votes are usually preceded by very long negotiations in which compromises are sought and from which results are also obtained. i would like to confirm what françoise grossetête said about 2006 being a year of parliament in particular. this year has seen the passing of perhaps some of the biggest legislative projects of the decade. the debate raised a number of issues and themes which are european in nature and in which the union has competence as such, but also the capacity to make decisions. one of the challenges for the future will be to decide next year on the european institute of technology, for which the european council has declared 2007 the year of decision. this is where the commission and the council will have a lot, a lot of work to do next year. in the enlargement process, i believe that the western balkans should be given special attention. enlargement is the way to link the peoples of the western balkans in a healthy way to stability and democracy, and we have time in the union both to make our own changes to the treaties and to continue the enlargement negotiations. we have only to assume our responsibility within the union and the member states to ensure that the negotiations on the treaty on a constitution are concluded in such a way that the target timetable for the european parliamentary elections in 2009 is achieved. if we succeed in this, i'm sure expansion will be no problem. i am grateful, mr president, for the privilege of being here at the last sitting of parliament this year and witnessing a lively political dialogue where cooperation is possible across ideological boundaries. the evidence of this was particularly evident in the opening part of this discussion. we in finland have also learned to cooperate across ideological boundaries, including at government level, and it has been a great pleasure to be involved in this same cooperation here at eu level. with these words i express my heartfelt thanks. a few specific questions were asked: one concerned agricultural trade in russia. i believe that the president of the commission will answer that. (applause) i would like to thank the
president of the commission. mr president, we in the commission are used to having the more difficult questions to solve! this was indeed a successful presidency and, as someone said, it was the last presidency of a european union of 25 members. on 1 january 2007 we are going to welcome romania and bulgaria. one of the achievements of these last six months was the finalisation of all these processes – the ratification in the member states. the good work that has been done was important, as was the election, with a great deal of support, of the two new commissioners from romania and bulgaria. once again, i would like to thank parliament for its support. it was a very clear signal of this parliament’s support for the enlarged european union. regarding russia, i think the debates we have had over the past six months have been helpful in establishing the basis for our relationship with russia. russia is a very important partner, a close neighbour and a partner with whom we want to have a strategic long-term relationship. we should avoid two risks. one is the ‘business as usual’ approach, pretending that everything is going in the right direction. it is not. there are some concerns. another risk is a kind of confrontational position with russia. i do not think this is in our interests, nor is it in the interests of all those who want a democratic, progressive russia. we should have a constructive, positive engagement with russia, trying to make it a win-win situation, namely on the energy issue. i have said before that we were divided from russia and the soviet union for so long because of our ideologies. let us not now be divided from russia because of energy. let us make it a positive factor. they need a stable market as much as we need a stable supplier, but at the same time, while we are engaged with this constructive position, we should also be very firm on matters of principle, namely on human rights. on this matter we have to tell our russian partners that this is non-negotiable. that is the position we have been taking publicly and privately in the talks with our russian partners. when it comes to russia, we will be able to control some events but not others. the future of russia will depend mainly on the dynamics of russia. it is a huge country. it would be a mistake to think that we can control its future. we do not and should not control that. however, there is something we can control, which is solidarity among our member states. we have to ask all the member states to keep a united and coherent approach to russia and not give in to any pressure to divide us, for instance on the issues that are now on the table. that depends on us. we can have a common approach to russia if we really want to. there have been some attempts to divide us but at the lahti summit we were able to speak with one voice on energy. now, in the face of an embargo on one of our member states, we can also express a common position. we hope that common position is maintained when it comes to the mandate for the future framework agreement with russia. i hope that matter can be solved. i hope the member states will be unanimous in supporting a mandate so we can continue with the strategy i have just outlined as a good position for europe and a position that is also useful for the future of our relations with russia. this principle of solidarity has to be a cornerstone in our external relations and also in how we build the european union. finally, since we now know that mr poettering has addressed us for the last time as the chairman of the ppe-de group, let me also express my gratitude and recognition for everything he has done as leader of such an important group in the european parliament and say how much i appreciate his sincere commitment to our european values. i hope that the commitment he has shown in leading such an important political group will be maintained in future for the service of europe, so we shall not say goodbye or adieu but just auf wiedersehen. i wish you all a merry christmas and a very good 2007. (applause)
the debate is closed.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 1.25 p.m.)
