treating people as commodities is a violation of human rights. human trafficking and prostitution are closely linked, as trafficking provides the prostitution industry with more and more women and children. experience with the legalization of prostitution shows that this only increases human trafficking. so the distinction between laws on human trafficking and laws on prostitution becomes ridiculous. human trafficking is the fastest growing form of organised crime. the demands of the buyers are changing, the desire is for unlimited access to different women and children, the market is booming. the globalization of the economy means the globalization of prostitution, and prostitution becomes an industry without borders. i stress, hoping to fight human trafficking independently of prostitution means burying your head in the sand. it is time for action across all policy areas, as the sad numbers of victims show the failure of current action to deal with the situation. thank you, mrs. pretz, for your very good work, and thank you for your attention.
i am pleased to congratulate the rapporteur, christa pretz, on a very timely and substantive report. first of all, i would like to emphasise that human trafficking is an international organised crime. it's the fastest growing crime in the world today, if you think about cybersex, for example. to combat this, we need well-organized international cooperation. we need a clear legal basis. we need to elevate the fight to the status of a common european policy to reduce the number of modern slaves by at least half within 10 years, as the report underlines. the report highlights the need to fully implement existing structures. i agree with that 100%. europol must make up for its laziness and identify criminal networks, methods and individuals. at the same time, the opportunities offered by the neighbourhood policy must be better exploited. according to current information, the victims of modern slavery in europe are mostly from moldova and ukraine. to prevent trafficking in human beings, these countries need expertise and financial assistance, as do the candidate countries bulgaria and romania. victims of trafficking are made vulnerable by the poor economic situation of their families and their country of origin. as head of the moldovan delegation, i know very well that one in three women in moldova is unemployed. at the same time, sources say that every other prostitute in paris is from moldova. clearly, these facts are interrelated. the lack of employment for women and of a source of livelihood allows the criminal to prey on his victims with simple lies about lucrative jobs abroad. i therefore share the rapporteur's view that the council and the commission must also take the issue of trafficking in women and children very seriously in their political dialogue with third countries. for my part, i would like to draw attention to witness protection as a recognised method of combating organised crime. in addition, in combating trafficking in human beings, victims from poor countries who share their testimonies should be given a new life in their new home country if they so wish. of the european union's members, only belgium and italy operate in this way. thank you for your attention and once again my deepest sympathy to the rapporteur.
estonia is a maritime country, and port services account for a large part of our gross national product. the implementation of the port services directive would not bring us any major changes. the market for port services was liberalised soon after the liberalisation of the soviet economy. the directive proposed by the european commission will intervene extensively in details such as the licensing process and the duration of contracts, but will leave responsibility for important areas to the member states. common and clear standards of quality, environment and safety would be more necessary to improve competition in the internal market than detailed prescriptions. i also share the fears of the old european dockworkers. the commission seems to want to achieve efficiency gains mainly at the expense of skilled workers. let's just say, my home country of estonia, the ports of the new europe, so to speak, compete with quality, not cheap labor. i am convinced that the intellectual potential of the european union will allow us to develop a much better directive. the commission should also make use of this possibility. commissioner, i am sorry, but i will vote against this directive tomorrow. thank you for listening.
mr president, contrary to opinion, including opinion within this chamber, the ukrainian gas crisis was not a one-off, first-time event justified by the need to move to market policies. on the contrary, it is a consistent policy and has everything to do with politics. first, ukraine had a contract, signed in 2004 and lasting until 2009. it was terminated because ukraine elected the wrong president and because of forthcoming parliamentary elections. second, the russian government is the majority shareholder in gazprom, a monopoly headed by the deputy prime minister. it is not a company. one cannot speak of market prices and a government-controlled monopoly in the same breath. third, the one-off issue: moscow stopped oil and gas deliveries to stymie lithuania’s independence movement way back in 1990. after independence, the russian government used the same weapon to punish the baltic states for not joining the cis and for demanding the removal of russian troops. when lithuania tried to privatise the mazeikiu oil refinery, again supplies were cut off so that russian investors could move in. it successfully followed the same policy when it came to georgia, which gave up its gas pipelines. to sum up, russia has consistently used a government-owned monopolistic energy company to put political pressure on countries – market practices and existing contracts be damned! empiricism is wiser than wishful thinking. the experiences of the new member states, and of ukraine and moldova when they adopted a pro-eu stance, clearly show the dangers of lacking a robust eu policy on energy security. (applause)
mr president, according to russian human rights groups, these so-called elections took place only on paper. participation by the local population was very low – almost non-existent. instead, and scandalously, thousands of russian army soldiers took part in the vote, together with an armed faction of the kremlin-appointed leader kadyrov. these elections must therefore be seen as a masquerade to cover up the continuing violence and oppression. in 2000, during the attack by russian forces on grozny, human rights defender lida yusupova sat in the cellar of a half-ruined house. the people there felt defenceless and abandoned. somehow they had information that at the same time in strasbourg the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe was discussing the situation in russia. listening to a radio set the elderly inhabitants asked mrs yusupova: ‘are they going to help us? strasbourg is our only hope.’ six years later this question has still not been answered. yesterday’s meeting of the representatives of the russian civil rights organisations confirmed the concerns we have been expressing for a long time. the last major expression of this concern was the malmström report. today’s resolution sadly states that both the council and the commission have not adequately addressed these concerns and human rights violations. one could even say that they have failed to do so. therefore, it is now high time to take a principled and united stand on these issues, because massive human rights violations in chechnya, which remain unpunished, are spreading throughout the russian federation like a virus. lastly, today’s resolution ... (the president cut off the speaker)
ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to see this report in its current form. after the latest enlargement, the european union needs a targeted and flexible neighbourhood policy more than ever. the european commission should be very clear about the objectives and priorities of the neighbourhood policy and the criteria for assessing its effectiveness. the neighbourhood policy as it is currently being implemented is fading. the countries covered by the neighbourhood policy are slipping into the grey zone. as head of the european parliament delegation, i have had to monitor the course of such things in moldova. moldova is a hostage to the transnistrian problem. we cannot ignore that fact. the transnistrian conflict is one of the most significant reasons for moldova's economic backwardness. however, as this report also notes, europe has not fully exploited its strategic partnership with russia in resolving the conflict. today, chancellor schüssel praised his government for its successful intervention in the russian-ukrainian gas crisis. he was seconded by mr barroso on the same subject. the fact that moldova's similar concerns have been completely ignored and that the gas crisis has therefore lasted almost three weeks shows the unshakability of the current neighbourhood policy. ignorance of the neighbourhood partner, ignorance of a country of four million people in the heart of europe is not a pattern of behaviour that the european union should continue to follow. i support the rapporteur's call for recognition of the aspirations of ukraine and moldova towards the european union and welcome the request to give them the opportunity to become members of the european union. of course, if all three copenhagen criteria are met. the possibility of membership is of paramount importance for democratization and economic reform. this is precisely the argument put forward in support of the opening of accession talks with turkey. if we gave a chance to turkey, whose population is soon to be larger than germany's, why can't we send a clear message to half the size of ukraine or 20 times the size of moldova? the neighbourhood report is a generous exception in the european union in this respect. once again, i thank the rapporteur and thank you for your attention.
my colleagues, mr president, as the social democrat of estonia, a new member state, i am continually concerned about the spread and deepening of double standards in the european union. last monday the directive on 'third-country nationals' came into force. this has created an absurd situation where citizens of the new member states are no longer even secondary players in the labour market. in a combination of circumstances, the labour market in the european union may be open to nationals of third countries who have met certain requirements, but not to nationals of new member states who meet the same requirements. so who are we protecting against in the european union of 25 member states? i have already asked the minister for economic affairs, martin bartenstein, when we can see the results of austria's work as the european presidency country in opening up the labour market. the minister had difficulty answering my direct question directly last wednesday. i hereby confirm that the opening-up of the labour market will remain one of my priorities. the free movement of people is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union. such a barrier can only be approved in exceptional circumstances.
ladies and gentlemen, i am unfortunately not a man, but a woman in this debate, but i thank the rapporteur, maria carlsham, for her timely report. the report rightly argues that violence against women is linked to male dominance in society. the report draws attention to the alarming prevalence of honour killings and genital mutilation in the european union. these are customs brought by immigrants from countries where the gender balance is even more skewed than in europe. the european union's member states must not turn a blind eye to such human rights violations simply because the violence is perpetrated within a family. we need effective measures, proportionate and dissuasive penalties, as the report states. direct punishment must be supported by measures aimed at improving the gender balance. i want to outline another form of violence that represents and symbolizes the unequal distribution of power better than anything else. i'm talking about selling a woman's body. the purchase of sex is violence and the incitement of violence. but the growth of prostitution is nothing more than female unemployment and lower wages for women. many prostitutes have been victims of violence before. the continuing violence and the associated psychological and social problems make it very difficult for trafficked women to integrate into the labour market. i say with my colleague figueiredo: "prostitution does not mean equal participation in the labour market". i'm fighting for the criminalization of sex buying in my home country of estonia. i don't want violence against women and gender inequality to continue. we don't want the environmental degradation that accompanies the brothel to continue to threaten our cities. the european parliament should seriously consider making the purchase of sex a criminal offence throughout the european union. this would be a step towards gender equality and a major contribution to ending violence against women. thank you for your attention!
mr president, in a few days we will decide on the fate of the services directive. that will be a crucial test of whether the eu is taking the lisbon agenda at its face value, because the services sector is a main reservoir for rapid economic growth. however, today the giant of the enlarged eu is like gulliver in lilliput, his immense potential tied up by innumerable cords of protectionist regulations. our challenge is to dismantle the complex network of anti-competitive practices, which is undermining confidence in genuine european integration. our responsibility this week is to open up the services sector to free and fair competition. the new member states are not a threat to the eu internal market, but an asset. therefore, compromises on the services directive should not serve to block the dynamics of this important change.
mr president, i would like to stress that the mechtild rothe report deserves high praise, particularly in the context of the binding obligations imposed on member states in the field of renewable energy. as we know, the energy market in the european union is significantly distorted. this is due, inter alia, to unequal subsidies, with fossil fuels (coal, lignite, oil shale) and nuclear energy receiving substantially higher subsidies than renewable energy. in several member states, this situation has been created by the monopoly status of fossil fuel power plants. this has also been a major obstacle to the development of a single energy policy in the european union. now that external insecurity has also become apparent, it is to be hoped that the lessons learned by russia at the turn of the year will provide a further impetus for the development of renewable energy in the european union, and that improved cooperation between member states will indeed lead us to a common energy policy for the european union.
i would ask more broadly why do the new member states feel that the gap between them and the old ones is widening? i would start with the services directive. the fear that the new member states would become better at providing services prevented the implementation of just one of europe's fundamental rights, which had been enshrined in the charter for 50 years. the movement of services was insulted as social dumping, threatened with the mythical plumber polonais. rhetoric demeaning the new member states as if we were not human. but there was no opposition between left and right, and the old members found a compromise easily: some defended their big companies, others their trade unions. eastern europe, on the other hand, opened up its market long before it joined the eu, and so for years, without the services directive, large companies in the old member states have simply bought up companies in eastern europe. he came to our market, he got bought, but when it was our turn, the door closed on us. small businesses, citizens and consumers in the old member states suffered. secondly, restricting the free movement of labour makes new europeans second-class citizens. one has the right to move, the other doesn't based on nationality. neoprotectionism in the eu restricts the civil rights of new members, often using xenophobic rhetoric, as we saw in the debate on the services directive. despite the closed labour market, the old member states have been happy for years to selectively recruit workers they lack, such as doctors, nurses, it specialists. in their case, there is no need to insult them with the accusation of dumping, since their recruitment is often subsidised by the state. thirdly, a directive came into force whereby a non-european citizen who has lived in a member state for five years enjoys the right of free movement that is not enjoyed by citizens of the new eu member states. what do you think? a citizen of a new member state is not a second-class citizen, but a third-class citizen. my question is what is europe going to do to ensure that this intolerable protectionism and blatant discrimination does not divide the newly united europe?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the commission is not prepared to accept the commission's proposal. the eradication of poverty and social exclusion is a strategic priority for the european union. the lisbon strategy interim report was critical of the actions, or rather the inaction, of the member states. 15% of europe's population lives in poverty, or more than 68 million people, a third of them children. the pay gap between men and women is on average 20% to the detriment of women. poverty, you know, breeds poverty. social balance serves the interests of society as a whole. personal failure is not the primary reason for poverty. social inclusion across all policies and ending the waste of human resources would provide a direct boost to the development that we are seeking to achieve with the lisbon strategy. this is also emphasised in the report under discussion. europe must get back in shape. a good example is the nordic countries. these are the countries with the world's top 10 most competitive economies and the most effective social protection systems. i would like to stress in particular the call in the report for negotiations to be opened to select policy areas for which the open method of coordination will be applied. europe must take into account that if we have 38 unemployed pensioners for every 100 workers, this figure could double in the next decade without any change in employment policy. but we have to deal with this problem today. lifelong learning and increasing the employment of older people are therefore keywords. unfortunately, the legislation of several member states contains provisions which encourage discrimination in the labour market. such a practice must be eradicated from the european legal area. in addition to other risk groups, the greatest risk of exclusion is among women over 50 years of age, with a further increase in retirement age. it is very welcome that the report pays close attention to this, calling on member states to ensure that women are not penalised for gaps in employment caused by parental leave or childcare when calculating their pensions. i consider it very important to call on all member states, especially the new ones, to review their solidarity-based pension systems, taking into account the shorter life expectancy of men and the large gender pay gaps that are reflected in the pension of widowed pensioners, often pushing them below the poverty line. i would like to thank mrs bauer for her expertise and hope that the principles of this document will be rapidly translated into practice in the member states.
my dear colleagues, as a social democrat i believe that work is the only source of wealth, but as a factor of production, labour is losing its position to machines, that is to say capital. many pensioners in the old member states enjoy a prosperous retirement, having legislated an obligation for employees to maintain them at a certain level, but many people who have worked for the benefit of society, being satisfied with a small salary, are at risk of poverty as pensioners. the pension systems of too many member states are pyramid schemes by their very nature. i note that the newly joined young people no longer have a source of recruitment for those who would later raise their salaries. their jobs, wages, and burdens do not allow them to have children or to save money. i commend mrs bauer's report, but the pension problem cannot be solved by one report. but there are steps you can take now to secure your future. pension schemes, whether public or private, must involve real money, not promises. estonia's transition to a collective pension was successful. if the old member states could replicate this success, it would be good for europe's competitiveness and sustainability. i hope our parliament will return to pension schemes soon.
ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, elmar brok, has done a great deal of work to show the western balkan countries the way to the european union. but it is my duty as head of the moldovan delegation to remind you that even closer to the heart of europe are two countries that need the prospect of eu membership as much as the balkans and turkey. the european parliament has clearly expressed its support for the aspirations of both ukraine and moldova to become candidates for membership of the european union. moldova has been making efforts for two years. ukraine has particularly recently shown a desire to become a european country. i felt it quite clearly last week in ukraine. however, i am disappointed by the excessive emphasis on the fourth copenhagen criterion in the report. i also agree with elmar brok that the european commission should speed up the process of declassifying the substance of the admissibility. this must not be a vague excuse to say no to those who want to join the european union. since the thessaloniki summit in 2003, our union has been renewed. it's a success story for those who met the copenhagen criteria. the evaluation of potential candidate countries will continue to be based on transparent criteria. the enlargement process must continue because europe needs stability like air.
let me first remind you why this issue is being discussed here today. the gas crisis between ukraine and russia, which erupted earlier this year, showed how vulnerable the european energy system is. and more importantly, how energy can be used as a powerful policy tool. the ukraine-russia gas crisis showed that if a country has a good leader like lukashenko, it can get cheap energy from russia. if the course chosen by the country is unsuitable for russia, as in ukraine, then it cannot. this policy was, by the way, carried over to the whole european energy system. as long as there is no common energy policy, as long as each member state or head of government is trying to get the best deal for itself with one big non-european state company, we will remain dependent and victims of side deals. europe needs a common energy policy just as we have a common trade policy, where the european union is extremely and extremely effective in negotiating. but imagine what the position of germany or france, not to mention my little estonia, would be in the wto, if they went to negotiate alone with the us or china. however, the current situation, where each country manages its own energy supply and concludes bilateral agreements, is no different from this situation. added to this is the fact that the two planned gas pipelines between russia and china could threaten supplies. if you owe the bank 100,000 euros, you're the bank's. but if you owe the bank 100 million euros, the bank is yours. the same is true for energy. with fracking energy policy, we rely on the political leverage of a state monopoly in one country. the common energy policy is a european decision.
mr president, i would like to express my concern about the conditions in which the russian authorities keep their prisoners. contrary to law, mikhail khodorkovsky of the yukos company has been sent 7000 kilometres away from his family. his lawyer travelled to the siberian detention camp – it took six hours by plane, thirteen hours by train and a couple of hours by car – to prepare an appeal to the court of human rights in strasbourg. she was allowed to meet her client only after 6.00 p.m. after several evening meetings, mr khodorkovsky was suddenly transferred to a special isolation cell. he is still there today. the apparent reason was to prevent him from completing his appeal to the court in strasbourg. i invite my colleagues to react to these arbitrary actions by the russian authorities, who blatantly defy their own laws.
two young estonian unofficial election observers were arrested in minsk on sunday. "don't come to minsk to have your orange revolution", they were told. the elections in belarus were not free this time. i am convinced that democratic, fair and free elections will take place in ukraine this weekend. i've just been to kiev myself, and i can confirm that. moldova, ukraine and belarus estonia lives with these countries because we have not forgotten our past. this week, estonia mourns a person without whom our return to europe would have been much more difficult. the cheering calls president lennart merit the great estonian. he was chosen as european of the year five years before estonia joined the european union. lennart meri spent all his energy fighting against the small european mind. the european union must not be narrow-minded or short-sighted. it must support all countries that seek to break free from the burdens of the past and join a democratic europe. we must clearly state that the fulfilment of the three copenhagen criteria will also give the former vassal states of the n-union the opportunity to become a member of the european union.
my colleagues, the rapporteur. bushill-matthews has been dropped with a much-needed report. by dealing with the politics of the day, a demographic and social disaster will strike europe like the tsunami that hit asia. the continuation of the european way of life is at stake. the younger generation spends long hours working for half pay, wearying the body and the mind. what is served as free choice is really a winner-take-all society. whether wage slavery or unemployment, whether career ladder or doorstep - these are the choices of our highly qualified young people. if a person works 12 hours or more despite the laws, neither flexibility nor longer open trade and services will help. there's just no time for a private life and having kids. from a macroeconomic perspective, this is driven by the need to finance the waiting pensions of the older generation and the increasingly expensive healthcare. this report should be used as a starting point only. maintaining a high standard of living in europe requires a lot of extra work and quick action from politicians. thank you for your attention.
ladies and gentlemen, the report by hannu takkula is a very important one. give him credit. the european union is becoming a playground for politicians from the member states who are only interested in their own interests in order to please their electorate. citizens of european countries do not feel sufficiently european. it's important to know each other's history to develop a sense of civility. many european nations suffered under totalitarian rule before and after world war ii. my home country of estonia was wiped off the map of the world along with the other baltic states by one of the most brutal dictators in history, stalin. we had no flag, no anthem, our capital was moscow. the twin brother of stalinism was nazism. these ideologies were born together. they divided europe between themselves with the hitler-stalin pact. stalin brought the whole of eastern europe under dictatorship for a century. hitler's war machine violently subjugated that part of western europe where local dictators had failed to seize power themselves. in seeking to ensure that the victims of nazism and stalinism are remembered equally, i am fighting for the symbolic admission of new member states to the european union. i condemn totalitarianism in all its forms. but i want to emphasize that nazism and stalinism are the cornerstones of all other totalitarian ideologies. the likes of franco, mussolini and salazar tortured their victims in the same way hitler and stalin did. each member state of the european union should take care to give a fair assessment of the actions of its dictators in its own country. but we're talking about stalinism and nazism that cross national borders and don't care about them. the courts of the member states have unanimously condemned the atrocities of hitler and stalin, who divided europe in two and divided it in two by the iron curtain. let us therefore contribute together to the commemoration of the victims of stalinism and nazism under the 'citizens for europe' programme.
corruption is a byproduct of weak government. but corruption also stems from a lack of values. therefore, a societal ethical framework and good practices are of great practical importance in order to succeed in tackling this problem. weak moral principles promote selfish deals as well as their concealment. the donor is tempted to believe that their money is being used for the right purpose. the recipients of aid often make us believe that this is so. the corruption involved in aid is particularly drastic, as the people in need themselves suffer a double blow. they lose not only material support, but also the hope of improving their lives, the hope of solidarity. it is therefore our duty to consistently expose, but more importantly prevent corruption and the good faith that goes with it. the court considers that the european commission's aid programmes do not yet sufficiently take account of the risks of corruption. two examples. european union aid to the palestinian authority. today we must admit that the main reasons for the rise to power of the extremist hamas were the deep-rooted corruption of the previous administration. the commission is sending humanitarian aid to chechnya. what has been done to clarify whether this money actually reaches the local population, who suffer from official corruption? i would like to end by highlighting a few important points in this very good report. member states are required to ratify the un convention against corruption. secondly, budget support should be given only to governments that are clearly seeking to improve the management of public finances. i am glad that the commissioner is supporting this. the aid granted shall be used to support civil society monitoring organisations in a proportionate manner. and the main problem is to put pressure on the countries where the financial centers are located to freeze and repatriate the illegal money that the corrupt rulers have deposited there. it's a very difficult requirement, but it's a test to see if we're serious about fighting corruption.
my dear colleagues! the cold war in the 21st century is not over. i say this with complete clarity because i am referring to the ban on the import of wine from georgia and moldova, which was imposed by the russian federation on 27 march. by labeling moldovan wine as non-compliant with its high russian hygiene standards, russia is destroying moldova's economy. this is extremely serious! according to statistics, 85% of moldovan wines go to the russian market. this behaviour is a cold-blooded and deliberate punitive action, as moldova has been seeking to integrate with europe rather than russia in recent years. colleagues, the kremlin has not yet presented any expert report proving that moldovan wine is poisoned. i therefore propose that the european food safety authority carry out an independent study on the quality of moldovan wine. and i also invite us, the members of the european parliament, to taste wine during the brussels plenary session to see how good or bad the moldovan wine that is heading for europe really is. and i encourage businessmen in the european union to import moldovan wine. - thank you. - thank you.
ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to congratulate the rapporteur on a very necessary report. in my home country of estonia, since the days of the hanseatic league, broad language skills have been considered elementary. four local languages were required for every merchant. this meant that in addition to their own language, they had to be proficient in the languages of three main trading partners. the report rightly argues that language skills are an essential prerequisite for citizens of the european union to enjoy the fundamental freedoms of the european union. with 70% of our economy being services, communication skills are crucial to economic growth. however, the barcelona target is unlikely to be achieved at the current level of effort, as the acquisition of two languages in addition to one's mother tongue is time-consuming and laborious. without a clear purpose, few people will do it. member states should effectively motivate their citizens. member states should also effectively motivate each other's citizens, for example by introducing full freedom of movement for workers. first, however, the european language proficiency index is necessary to motivate the member states themselves to create a certain benchmark and competitive momentum. to confine ourselves to one universal language is dangerous both for europe and for the language itself. the tongue is ripped out like this. for example, cambridge language professors have difficulty understanding english text supposedly coming from here in brussels. i therefore emphasise that not only language skills but also the cultures associated with them must be promoted at european level. unfortunately, i am now only able to speak in my native language, estonian, at one of the ten sessions of the european parliament's committee on culture and education. what an irony in a multicultural europe. i hope that this report will help to launch a much-needed programme to promote multilingualism in europe. - thank you. - thank you.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by saying that i agree with the rapporteur, mr maat, that we can and should regulate where it is necessary. i hope this measure will produce the desired results and that it is not too late. if one looks at the figures, the situation is almost catastrophic. mr gklavakis mentioned that stocks of eels are about 90 to 95% less than historic levels, which has been confirmed by the scientific research into levels of stocks of eels and silver eels in particular. i cannot agree more that it is a bottom-up approach, not a top-down approach, and that the commission would like to have more of this. that is why we are trying to involve the sector more and more, by setting up regional advisory councils and by listening to the european parliament, which is always very close to the grass roots of this sector. the commission had an open approach and came up with a proposal, for want of a more appropriate and specific approach, because when we talked to the sector we did not, at that juncture, find a more appropriate solution than the 15-day closure in the original proposal. as i said in my opening remarks, the commission is willing to accept the proposal parliament presented to it, since that would work towards replenishing eel stocks in a way that would produce results without too much difficulty for the sector itself. mrs fraga estévez and mrs miguélez ramos mentioned that the commission proposal was rejected by the sector. that is true, but the proposal at least served to launch the debate in order to try to find the most appropriate solution for the whole question of eel management. with parliament’s amendments, which the commission has accepted, we can now speak of a measure that can move towards producing results and has a reasonable prospect of success. mr kristensen mentioned that the commission proposal underlines the need for management plans by member states at national or regional level, and with the amendment proposed by parliament we can move ahead with reasonable prospects of success at those levels. as i said before, on the points made by mr ortuondo larrea and mr martinez, closure for the first 15 days of the month was proposed for want of a better proposal. the amendment before us has been accepted and even the extension of the implementation period has been accepted by the commission. i agree with the comments by mr schlyter, mrs de brún and mr parish and i have taken note of the points raised. mr allister raised the question of ultra vires. the commission’s view is that conservation measures are not ultra vires. if a country or region manages stock of eels or other inland fisheries properly, certainly no intervention would be solicited or required and therefore self-regulation and control would continue. however, where the situation requires intervention for conservation purposes, the commission would have the right to intervene on behalf of the community. export measures will be undertaken separately, but we must first set our own house in order, because, at the end of the day, if we go to international fora presenting measures that would curtail exports, they would be immediately attacked if we have not introduced measures to rectify our own situation. finally, with regard to the point raised by mr chmielewski, i have taken note of the points he raised and we will look into them, especially in conjunction with possible funding under the european fisheries fund.
ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to congratulate rapporteur albert jan maat on his timely report. my homeland, estonia, is bordered on two sides by the sea and on the third by a large lake. fisheries have been an important part of our economy and culture for centuries, and we are well aware of the complexity and sensitivity of this sector. fifty years of cold war and the arms race of victory also occurred in the fisheries sector. their legacy is a huge fishing capacity and a fish stock that cannot regenerate itself. in order to restore the natural cycle, fishing needs to be reduced by as much as 60%. former fishermen are not used, fishing vessels bought with euro grants are now being recycled with euro grants. the recovery of the eel stock is a test case for international cooperation. demand from asia is threatening glass materials, and man-made obstacles affecting the flow of mature eels from inland waters to the sea, such as the dam of a russian-owned hydroelectric power station on the estonian border. we cannot solve these problems without effective international cooperation. i expect the member states and the european commission to act effectively on the international stage. i don't expect you to go into details, though. i am pleased that this report has introduced a correction to the original text which made the catch records up to date. the best way to conserve fish is for the indigenous fishing families in the coastal villages. but industrial ocean fishing has brought their way of life to the brink of extinction. they too need targeted support: without them and their knowledge, it may prove impossible to restore sustainable fisheries. thank you for your attention.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - mr president! relations with old and new neighbours are an important part of the european union's foreign policy. however, we have recently learned from the media that the funding of projects has in some cases remained quite unclear. in acknowledging the rapporteur's work, however, as draftsman of the itre committee's opinion, i have two critical remarks to make about the lack of clarity on european union spending. the first concerns the role of the european parliament in the preparation, management and control of projects, which were present in the itre amendments but are not in the final text. the legal personality of the partners has also disappeared. the second comment concerns the inclusion of the basic dimension in the draft on the same aspect. the nordic dimension is undoubtedly a successful step for finland in relations between the european union and russia. however, the extent of this has not been defined. it is sometimes even presented as the immediate neighbourhood policy of the member states with a common border, which would then mean finland, estonia, latvia, lithuania and poland. the third and best option is the eight member states from the baltic sea region and russia's neighbourhood, which of course excludes no one else. thank you, mr chairman!
this is the commissioner, mr winkler. as deputy rapporteur of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the group of the european people's party (democrats), i support the european parliament's efforts to find an active role as co-rapporteur in strategic foreign policy choices. it is a pleasant surprise that mrs ferrero-waldner has said today that the commission agrees to the application of the revision clause as well as to the european parliament's co-decision in the stabilisation instrument. it is important that these documents establish a direct link between the provision of crisis aid, european union development cooperation and the implementation of human rights policy. it is also a welcome objective to create complementarity between the assistance provided through the stabilisation mechanism and that provided under the other three external instruments. we therefore have the opportunity to create a single strategic programme for the european union, linking the main policy instruments with the elements of the new stabilisation instrument. i am pleased that the council and now the commission supported the foreign affairs committee's call for a separate 'human rights and democracy instrument'. with the prospect of implementing this instrument, there is scope for agreement on the remaining three external policy instruments. the message today is that the european parliament has set itself the objective of significantly increasing its co-decision power on the issues mentioned. we also now expect the commission to take legislative initiatives to implement these external aid instruments. the more difficult question is the application of these instruments to all third countries, on the basis of the same criteria. this requires the implementation of the european union's common foreign and security policy in practice, not in words. these policies need to be coordinated more firmly and effectively to create the necessary comprehensive framework for responding to crisis situations. thank you so much!
my dear colleagues! the amendments by our deputies to the neighbourhood instrument are rightly undermining european values. it is good that the instrument provides for the possibility of bypassing governments if necessary. but we are slipping away from defining geopolitical priorities. it is not clear what the european union wants to achieve with these far from insignificant sums as an end goal. there are plenty of clues. we see that russia has a separate framework and a northern dimension in addition to the neighbourhood policy instrument. in other words, the european union is tacitly acknowledging the existence of a russian sphere of influence. right now, the moldovan game bowl is in the hands of a russian bear. the kremlin is shutting down the gas screen, draining the wine industry, the biggest source of export revenue. the eu is also looking at the resilience of moldova, georgia and ukraine, and whether the eu has any backbone in foreign policy. so we must use our taxpayers' money as a yard to wipe out the last vestiges of the cold war in a united europe. in the interests of stability, greater financial focus should be placed on the democratisation of the former soviet union. thank you!
mr president, i am happy that estonia has been mentioned several times this afternoon, because the estonian parliament recently ratified the constitutional treaty and hopefully re-launched the process of ratification to reach the number 20. i must admit that, compared with when i was a member of the european convention, i am much more convinced of closer cooperation between members of the european union. it is very clear that a europe of 500 million cannot rely on and cannot work on the basis of the nice treaty. i am absolutely in favour of prime minister verhofstadt’s idea that we need courageous leadership, because without determination and clear convictions we cannot convince our voters to support this project. therefore we need to stop speaking half-truths; we need to stop saying one thing in the european council and then another thing at home; we need to stop thinking in practical terms about forthcoming elections. our voters know when we are speaking half-truths and if we are not showing clear conviction. finally, we must not isolate ourselves. we need transatlantic cooperation – the next item on the agenda this afternoon – to strengthen the project, and i will fully support that idea.
my dear colleagues! forced prostitution is a serious problem for europe. that is why i am disturbed by the article that appeared in the german magazine der spiegel on july 8. although the article acknowledged the violence and criminality of the prostitution environment, it made claims to which i expect a clear reaction from commissioner frattin, the german minister of justice, zypries, and europol. the article made the unbalanced claim that the estimates of 40,000 eastern european prostitutes brought to germany have not been substantiated. moreover, the article questioned the fact that mm had caused the rise of forced prostitution in germany. the europol study, the council of europe data and the temporary brothel towns shown on german television do not give any reason to believe that the problem does not exist. i'm going to make commissioner frattini take to heart the promise he made last thursday to do a thorough review of forced prostitution at the world cup. i therefore await concrete data and, if necessary, the rebuttal of unfounded allegations.
my dear colleagues! my home country of estonia has the third highest number of prostitutes per 1,000 inhabitants in the european union, behind only germany and austria. according to television interviews in march, viewers overwhelmingly considered the prevalence of prostitution to be estonia's number one image problem. i think we've asked the question too timidly. the difference between forced prostitution and prostitution is a very small one. according to some estimates, 95% of the trafficking is forced prostitution. estonian statistics show that two-thirds of prostitutes have considered suicide. 80% suffer from chronic depression. it's not about a volunteer recruit, it's about slavery. i've done everything i can to reduce the demand for prostitution. i was very active in the pes women's signature campaign. in just a few hours, we collected hundreds of signatures against forced prostitution in the small estonian town of pärnus. the population of the marsh, from infants to foals, is 40,000. the same number of women from eastern europe have been forcibly transported to germany for the world cup. commissioner frattini, i'd like to invite you to come back to us after the football world cup to give us a summary of what exactly happened in germany. i want an answer as to how you specifically, as you said, intend to reduce the demand for prostitution in the european union. can you and will you go as far as sweden and demand that member states punish sex buyers? that's what reducing demand means in practice.
mr. chairman, please! the 'protection of groundwater against pollution' is a good complement to the water framework directive. given the geographical, or rather geological, diversity of the european continent, this is not a unifying document, but a step towards protecting an important and increasingly important natural resource. against this positive background, it is surprising that some member states can afford to ignore the agreement altogether. six months ago, i presented to the european parliament a report by the estonian nature conservation fund on sulphate pollution of groundwater and waste associated with the extraction of fuel oil, which is important for estonia's energy sector. the initiative came from claude turmes, who in one of his speeches called for the third sector to be represented alongside government reports. in essence, this is a waste of a natural resource, i.e. the subsidisation of energy production at the expense of the natural and mining community. the electricity price does not reflect this water, which distorts the energy market by making it difficult, inter alia, to deploy renewable energy. bottled groundwater is reportedly at least a thousand times more expensive than tap water in european cities. pollution is therefore also a direct economic misuse in this case. my question is, as my colleagues have already said, does the commission have the power to control this waste?
mr. chairman, please. i would first of all like to highlight the enormous importance of the 7th framework programme (fp7) for a small member state and especially for its young researchers. however, given the large backlog of research infrastructure in the new member states, fp7 funding is not enough to eliminate it, and the government needs to significantly increase its research budget, at least in estonia. the second topic i would like to touch on is energy. i hope that the council will support parliament's proposal to spend €150 million on energy research and development under fp7 in addition to the proposal by the presidency. of course, this is also a small amount in view of the challenges facing the energy sector. however, most of this small amount goes to nuclear energy and not to new sustainable technologies. i'm joining the speakers who have already expressed their outrage. a disproportionate share is also attributed to energy technologies based on fossil fuels. the same applies to estonia, where oil shale exploration is the main source of public funding. it's time to change those proportions!
madam president, i think the essence of today’s debate is that our approach to russia has been too pragmatic. as we observe a clear trend away from civil society and democratic freedoms, it is of paramount importance to strike a convincing balance between economic and strategic interests as the core values on which our partnership with russia are officially based. the resolution drafted by the european parliament points to several key issues which need to be resolved: the problem of transnistria, the conflict in the caucasus, and the need to achieve progress on three other common spaces, besides a common economic space. we welcome the commission’s assistance for recovery in the northern caucasus. however, it is important to make sure that this assistance has really been reaching the people in need. i think it is the view of this parliament that the human rights dialogue should have the status of a central element of partnership in the future. it is not enough to raise human rights issues while still believing or pretending to believe that, in spite of all the alarming facts, russia is continuing on its way to democracy, russia is fulfilling its commitments to the council of europe signed ten years ago, demonstrating real progress in building a rule of law society and implementing the verdicts of the strasbourg court of human rights – verdicts which the russian government has so far ignored. that should be a precondition for a new pca, which will be signed next year. commissioner rehn has raised the question of interdependence. i fully agree, but we are not more dependent on russian gas than russia will be dependent on the revenues it receives from its gas.
mr president, the euro-pessimism that president barroso spoke about seems to be a much more contagious disease than avian flu. it is serious, because it provides a good excuse for many political leaders not to face the challenges of changing europe. if it continues in this way, this situation will remind me more and more of the old soviet joke from the 1970s: the soviet economy was in stalemate and the train was not moving, so the order was given to draw the curtains, rock the carriage to and fro and pretend the train was moving at high speed. clearly we need a political solution, not in the form of first division and second division europe, but with a new quality of political leadership that would be worthy of the founding fathers 50 years ago. can we really restore trust and generate inspiration among the voters if we continue to conduct our policies from one national election to another, finding in them a good excuse not to apply the common policies? i think people can easily differentiate between far-sighted, compassionate and courageous leadership and the petty and patronising approach of those whose main aim is to retain control of the situation. if the name of the constitution is an obstacle, then i am prepared to change the name. we could streamline the format, but we need to retain the substance of the constitution, otherwise we cannot successfully apply the common policies of enlarged europe. we cannot apply the solidarity which is a guiding principle of all our efforts.
mr president, i too should like to pay tribute to the polish citizens who, 50 years ago, stood up in poznań for their freedom, dignity and social justice against a communist dictatorship introduced by the soviet union. this autumn will also mark 50 years of the hungarian revolution. these anniversaries remind us of a task still to be accomplished: the integration of our historic heritage to unite people’s perception of history in all parts of europe. mr president, i expected you to mention the poznań uprising in your introduction today. tomorrow i will be interested to learn more about the franco dictatorship in your native country. still, i expect you to show an equal interest in the history of central and eastern europe. (applause from the right)
mr president, in his written declaration, the communist daniel strož accuses estonians of mass execution of jewish people during the second world war. it is a harsh lie which is not based on fact. on the contrary, jewish people have lived side by side with estonians as one family for centuries. already in 1925, estonia adopted an act of cultural autonomy for ethnic minorities. it was an extraordinary event in the whole world at that time, and jewish people entered our state in their golden book. during the second world war, estonians helped and rescued jews, and in memory of that, a tree of gratitude has been planted in yad vashem park in jerusalem. estonia was the only occupied country where provoking programmes did not succeed. i do not know what made daniel strož publish it. was it foolishness or something else? it does not matter.
the report of stavros lambrinidis is necessary and timely. the problems of immigrants are common throughout europe. the postwar reconstruction of europe in the member states of the union was carried out on both sides of the iron curtain by means of a foreign workforce. the democratic countries relied mostly on natural migration, and germany also carried out deliberate recruitment in turkey. at the same time, the soviet union combined its reconstruction efforts in the baltic states with a determined policy of expansion. estonia's heavy industry and mines were run to a large extent by low-skilled labour from russia. as a result of the soviet authorities' actions, immigrants eventually made up almost a third of estonia's population. after estonia regained its independence, we faced a very difficult integration problem. the biggest obstacle was the consciously instilled belief that a small people like the estonians could not survive without the support of a large neighbor, that immigrants were representatives of a higher culture. five years later, our integration problem has lost much of its edge. estonia's experience shows that setting clear rules of the game and linking integration to concrete and tangible benefits helps to overcome major obstacles. many of the measures proposed in the report are necessary. perhaps there is more to be said about the proportions of research, brainstorming and concrete action. we certainly need to involve immigrant representatives as broadly as possible. but we can't just talk to each other. all actors in the process, both representatives of the host country and opinion leaders of immigrants, must be given specific tasks to perform. and action must be taken now, without waiting for the completion of a grand, comprehensive plan and a system of measurements.
mr president, mrs carlotti, commissioner, migration, especially illegal migration, has so far been a colonial or home-country problem, which has led to the introduction of strict visa requirements, the need for a migration code and an international debate on the subject. but the complexity of the problem is clearly illustrated by the situation today, with 60,000 people on the north coast of africa waiting for a chance to get to spain. with globalisation, the problem of migration should be extended to the new member states. mr president, europe has a moral obligation to help even the few to reach the developed countries, to break out of human life, to acquire education and a profession and then to return to their countries of origin to make a journey. however, the implementation of the transition product requires the modernisation and reform of the migration policies of the eu member states. the management of legal immigration requires long-term cooperation between source and destination countries, which requires new resources. so, mr president, it is not impossible that we will soon have to talk about a common european union policy on migration, in order to avoid the same difficult situation as we are in today with the european union's common energy policy.
as the head of the moldovan delegation, i do propose that we show our solidarity with moldova by stating that we will, firstly, respect international law and, secondly, that we will continue to be here in this house with the view that the separatist transnistria has no possibility or right under international law to secede from moldova. we recognize moldova within its borders. this is a very important signal to this country, so i would ask you to please try to be preventive for once. it also shows that we are setting a precedent in our house in that we are not running after events, but we are firm in our position and we are showing it in a cautious way.
ten days ago, the social democrats in finland celebrated the 100th anniversary of women's full right to vote. finland was the first country in the world where all women had the right to both vote and be elected. a hundred years later, more than a third of the seats in the finnish parliament are held by women, and women make up as much as 40% of the ministers. in many european countries, however, the situation is not so favorable. for example, in estonia, which granted women full rights in 1918, women still hold one fifth of parliamentary seats and only one in seven, or 14%, of ministerial portfolios. one reason for the inequality is that the voter cannot find a suitable female candidate on the list. there are still 1⁄2 women in the top 10 on the selection lists. i call on colleagues across europe to ensure that women are equal to men among parliamentary candidates in their own countries. that would be a truly democratic choice. and don't worry about a woman not choosing a woman. it's time to dispel the silly myth.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement on 12 june was a significant step on albania's path towards the european union. we are pleased that albania has made progress in its reforms and that the long-running treaty negotiations have been brought to a conclusion. the agreement, together with other mechanisms of the stabilisation and association process, provides a comprehensive framework for the further development of eu-albania relations. the interim agreement signed in the same context is due to enter into force from the beginning of november. it covers the trade-related parts of the saa and its annexes, which are applicable until the ratification of the saa itself by the member states. it is important that the interim agreement be put to good use once it has entered into force. the stabilisation and association agreement is of the utmost importance for the future of albania. it will promote economic and political relations between the eu and albania and improve albania's capacity to move closer to the european union. albania is the third country in the western balkans (after the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and croatia) with which the eu has signed a stabilisation and association agreement. the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement does not mean that the work is over. on the contrary, the actual work is only just beginning. we expect albania to make continuous and effective progress in implementing the agreements. it must vigorously pursue the reforms required for closer eu integration. it is important that progress is made, in particular in areas such as freedom of the media, restitution and compensation, improvement of the efficiency of public administration and respect for the rule of law. we continue to stress to albania - as to the other countries of the western balkans - the need to further strengthen its efforts to prevent corruption and organised crime. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the eu is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the reforms required for eu enlargement must be pursued by all political forces working together. the political climate in albania at present is a worrying and serious obstacle to progress in reform. we encourage constructive dialogue between the two sides and are pleased that the first results were achieved last week. finally, i would like to recall that at the european council in june the european union reaffirmed the eu perspective for the western balkans. this means that albania's future is also in the european union. however, it must be remembered that each country's progress towards eu approximation depends on its own merits in meeting eu requirements. the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement provide albania with the best possible framework for its own efforts in this area. the union will of course continue to help, but the bulk of the remaining work can only be done by albania itself.
member of the commission. madam president, it is a great pleasure to speak about the stabilisation and association agreement with albania at the european parliament today. the saa is an important milestone on albania’s path towards the european union and a major step for the eu itself in the western balkans. it marks the beginning of a new phase in the eu’s relations with albania and creates a new framework for partnership in a wide range of fields. the saa represents an important economic and political opportunity. increased trade liberalisation will bring significant economic benefits to both albania and the eu. aligning albanian laws with those of the eu will bring albania closer to european standards and help further strengthen the ties between us. successfully implementing the saa will be albania’s next major challenge. the saa creates significant obligations in terms of trade, rule of law, democratic standards and fundamental rights, regional cooperation and new legislation. the saa sets up joint structures to foster dialogue and monitor progress, including a parliamentary committee. this committee will be able to take forward the good work of the current joint parliamentary committee and will provide an important opportunity to guide albania in the best traditions of european parliamentary democracy. i am sure it will also help to achieve a minimal degree of consensual political culture and underline the fact that a successful country in the european union, or in the accession or pre-accession process, needs a broad political consensus on the question of european aspirations, as well as a basic consensus on a democratic culture in the country. it is important to take this into account as albania pursues its european route. the commission warmly welcomes the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs for assent to the conclusion of the saa. in our political dialogue we share the committee’s emphasis on encouraging albania to build on progress in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and to address areas such as electoral reform, media freedom and human and minority rights with greater determination. we welcome the recommendations of the committee on international trade on improving albania’s business environment, which is vital to enable albania to make full use of the agreement. i want to conclude by assuring you that, from the eu side, the european commission will do its utmost to ensure that the full benefit of the saa is truly achieved. i have made it clear to our albanian partners that i expect no less from them.
rapporteur. – madam president, of all the european countries, albania has had the longest row to hoe in the transition from communist dictatorship to liberal democracy. it is a country that groaned under stalinism well into the 1980s, thus it must be clear to all of us that it faced far greater challenges than other post-communist countries like my own, for whom the worst excesses of stalinist totalitarianism ended in the 1950s. albania has made enormous progress: the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement is proof of it. at the same time, albania should not rest on its laurels. to meet its european calling it needs to do more. the saa is a milepost, it is not a destination. i would sum up my report as follows. the saa and the interim agreement offer a golden opportunity for albania to modernise itself and become a competitive market economy, the sine qua non for joining the eu. secondly, genuine economic development requires a stable and transparent legal environment. this means a professional and independent judiciary, an effective and politically unbiased fight against corruption and an efficient, well-functioning public administration. thirdly, as with all transition countries, a sound legal framework is not enough. good laws on the books help little if they are not enforced. progress must be made in implementing the adopted reforms. fourthly, progress in achieving the standards laid down in the saa, and therefore implementing the reforms, should be monitored by the eu by means of concrete benchmarks. in addition to these general themes, i would like to underline a number of specific points in the report. while giving full support to albania’s european perspective in line with the thessaloniki conclusions, the report underlines that albania needs to pursue the fulfilment of european values and standards as a goal in itself. it calls for a visa facilitation agreement with albania. today, citizens of a small country with a european perspective have a less favourable visa regime with the eu than a large country with no membership prospects – russia. the report calls on the eu and albania to take advantage of the knowledge and experience of the 2004 accession states. the challenges faced by albania are not unique; there is no need to reinvent the wheel when the expertise of the wheelwrights of reform from eight post-communist eu member states is freely available. the report notes that a recent amnesty international report was critical of albania for violations of human rights in areas of access to legal defence, the problems of torture and brutality towards prisoners, and so on. these deficiencies must be corrected. the report says that electoral legislation must be reformed. this means a more reliable voters’ registry and changes in the system to avoid distortion of the proportionality system – this system is currently known as the ‘dushk’ system in albania – because, let us be honest, faith and democracy will not last if the voters’ will is distorted. i think this is one of the crucial democracy issues that the country faces today. the report underlines the need for albania to continue with its responsible attitude towards neighbouring countries, particularly towards kosovo and fyrom. as we know, there are substantial albanian minorities in fyrom, and kosovo, of course, is an albanian area. we welcome the attitude taken thus far by albania in not getting involved in those problems. i have received six amendments. i will take on board amendment 5 from mr brie and mr meijer on the need to address the issue of trafficking of children. amendments 1 and 2 are good in principle, but in the opinion of the rapporteur will be more appropriate when albania has made far more progress in dealing with its fundamental problems involving corruption, the rule of law and economic reforms. in my opinion, amendment 3 on the treatment of prisoners is already covered in the report. to conclude, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this report, but i would especially like to single out mrs pack, the dynamo driving so much of this house’s approach to bringing the balkans into europe. (applause)
mr president, when engaged in a partnership with a dictatorship, the crucial issue is to create a credible balance between economic and strategic interests on the one hand, and democratic values on the other. this report expresses serious concern over the latter, and rightly so. indeed, we must face the reality that increased economic relations have not resulted in any real progress in the field of the rule of law. also, experience shows that merely expressing concern over human rights has no impact on dictatorships. therefore, our message for the eu-china summit should be that there will be no automatic progress in economic relations without real progress in the rule of law. the eu, as china’s largest trading partner, has the leverage to force china’s leaders to start implementing genuine democratic reforms. i have a few comments. the economic relations themselves need to be balanced. in china there is wholesale counterfeiting of eu brands, competition is distorted and intellectual property rights ignored. eu members states are, in all probability, importing large quantities of goods produced by prisoners in laogai torture camps. that is a moral outrage. secondly, there is tibet. the eu must make it one of its priorities to insist that china grants tibet cultural and religious autonomy, and also opens a dialogue with the dalai lama. tibet is rated by freedom house as being, along with chechnya, one of the world’s two worst-off territories. the eu should stress the seriousness it attaches to this by appointing an eu special representative for tibetan affairs. thirdly, there is taiwan. taiwan-china policy should fully respect the democratic choices of the 23 million inhabitants of taiwan. we should also insist that beijing allow taiwan to enter into practical cooperation with the world health organisation and other international bodies.
ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the delegation from the countries of south asia in our parliament, i find the loss of sri lanka's already achieved status quo paralysing. the terrorist attack by the tamil tigers on 15 june is deeply regrettable, as is the killing of aid workers by government forces in muturi. to be trustworthy partners, the parties must be able to prevent such incidents. respect for human rights and the well-being of the population is the only way out of the impasse. restoring a ceasefire is the most pressing task of our time, but freezing the conflict alone is not the answer. as the head of the parliament's delegation to moldova, i feel this every day. the frozen conflict, and i mean the illegal regime in transnistria, has made moldova the poorest country in europe. despite setbacks, the european union must not lose sight of its long-term objectives. the inclusion of the ltte in the list of terrorist organisations was formally a fair step, but in substance a wrong one. as a result, slmm lost most of its capacity. the european union must do everything in its power to ensure that sri lanka speaks not with bullets but with words. it's in our hands. it has to be.
ladies and gentlemen, this saturday, our group member, vice-chairman of the foreign affairs committee, toomas hendrik ilves, was elected by the electoral college as president of the republic of estonia. ilves, who was running against the incumbent president, was widely considered the favorite, but the election was tense because of the rules of the electoral college. both the media and the estonian citizens feared that political manipulation would win the election instead of the will of the people. on saturday, thousands of estonians, including me, gathered in the heart of the capital. just like during the restoration of estonian independence in the late 80s, we expressed our support for toomas ilves as the bearer of democracy through music. i am very pleased to be able to congratulate both estonia and europe today. the decision of the electoral college met the expectations of the democratic majority of our society, and with the presidential elections in estonia on 23 september, i can confirm that european democracy is strong and viable. and i also wish my good colleague and friend toomas ilves strength in his new position, so that there is more europe in estonia and more of the meaning of estonia here. (applause) thank you very much.
mr president, the separatist formation of transnistria recently conducted a self-styled referendum to approve the idea of anschluss of this part of moldova into the russian federation. described as a bandit land, transnistria continues to be a dangerous hub of arms smuggling and black-marketeering. it is also known as a living soviet museum, with the continued cult of lenin and stalin. all this is possible because of the continued presence there of russian troops in gross violation of moscow’s ten-year-old commitment to pull them out. sadly, this is but one example of russia’s attempts to retain its military presence beyond its borders. i call on the commission not to limit itself to expressions of concern but to make the evacuation of russian troops and moscow’s respect for the integrity of neighbouring states a credibility test for the new pca.
dear colleagues, the republic of estonia, restored fifteen years ago, is among the winners as a country. shock therapy ensured a rapid return to the european cultural and economic area. but estonian society is divided into winners and losers. among the staff, the winners were young people who quickly acquired the diplomas and skills needed in the new circumstances. the losers were contractors approaching retirement. they were considered to be the relics of the old days, with learning disabilities. the acquisition of the eight key competences proposed by the commission would certainly make it easier for contractors to adapt to the changing demands of the labour market. the average american worker changes careers three times in their lifetime. it's about to become commonplace in europe. as the average age increases, the 45-year-old worker has completed less than half his career. this means new initiatives in the midst of, but still an age-old discrimination is an undeniable fact in middle and lower-level jobs around the world. by introducing a lifelong learning system, we must also change the perception of society. the eight key competences need to be given a substance that gives contractors confidence in the future. the confidence that comes from believing in your own ability to evolve. at the same time, employers should be encouraged to invest in people with life experience who come alongside. europe must become accustomed to lifelong learning as an everyday phenomenon, an integral part of working life. otherwise, achieving the lisbon objective will be a pink dream, wishful thinking. (applause) thank you very much.
ladies and gentlemen, the liberalisation of the economy has brought rapid progress to estonia. liberalisation is now the engine of the european and world economies, but success comes at a price - greater mental and economic pressure on families, insecurity in employment and social stratification. globalisation affects women more painfully than men, as has been said here. women unfairly shoulder a large share of unpaid work. however, the role of women in political and economic decision-making is unjustifiably low. the debate, which has so far been largely held to be one of sentiment and belief, needs more facts. a science-based gender equality scoreboard in the labour market would be an effective tool to tackle inequalities, but the facts must also be self-generated. i have been calling on estonian society for some time to follow the example of norway and set a target of 40% representation of women on company boards. what is possible in norway could become a reality around the world. that's what the report says. the european message today must be simple and unanimous gender inequality is a thing of the past. that's what the report says, and it's a great document to move forward.
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to begin by thanking mr maat and the committee on fisheries for the preparation of this report concerning the commission’s proposal for a long-term plan for the management of plaice and sole fisheries. this is an important topic. since the commission first began discussing the long-term management of these stocks and fisheries in 2004, there has been a significant worsening of the state of these stocks. in particular, the size of the sole stock is now declining rapidly due to low numbers of incoming young fish. high fuel prices and lower catch rates have combined to create a very difficult situation for this sector and this fits very well into what i have been saying before. the commission’s proposal is intended to reverse this trend by leading to more efficient and more profitable fisheries and i am keen to see it adopted soon so that fisheries can begin to recover and to improve. i thank you, therefore, for this report and i now turn to the specific amendments that you propose. i can support amendments 2, 3, 4, 5, 18 and 21. however, i should mention that the commission has already begun a debate, as requested in amendment 4, with the regional advisory councils concerning the implementation of maximum sustainable yield management and has also already arranged for the impact assessment foreseen in amendment 5. the final text should reflect the fact that these measures requested by parliament have already taken place. i can accept in principle that there could be a two-step approach in long-term plans, and that different measures would apply in situations where stocks are outside safe biological limits from those applicable in situations where stocks are within those limits. therefore, i can accept the principles behind amendments 1, 7, 9 and 10. however, it is important to improve the state of the stock and the finances of the industry. more consultations with the sector and the member states concerned will be needed to refine the details, as will careful consideration of the results of the impact analysis. i fully support provisions to revise long-term targets at periodic intervals of about five years in order to take account of changes in the environment and the ecosystems. however, i am not in a position to accept parliament’s amendments intended to provide stability for the industry by setting tacs that are stable for three-year periods. stability for the industry can better be provided by limiting changes to tacs between years. the north sea rac has revised its opinion on this topic and in its latest advice no longer advises such a measure. therefore, i cannot accept amendment 8, the second paragraph of amendment 9, nor amendments 10, 11 and 24. concerning amendment 12, i can accept the widening of scope to include a wider definition of fishing effort for plaice and sole, though a more precise legal wording may be necessary. however, here again, i cannot support a proposal that effort limits be adapted only at three-yearly intervals. concerning amendment 13, a legislative text for a long-term plan must define clearly how efforts should be adjusted in order to achieve the targets of the plan. parliament’s text does not seem clear enough from a legal and technical point of view. advice from scientific committees indicates that significant amounts of cod are caught and are discarded. as the plaice and sole fisheries exert mortality on cod, it is necessary to keep this mortality under review and to adjust relevant efforts if necessary. this is why i am not in a position to accept amendment 14, because it would create a non-equitable situation in comparison with other fisheries sectors that also have an impact on cod and are subject to cod-recovery measures. amendment 15 asks for a change in the log-book tolerance from 8% to 10%. however, the 8% figure was adopted in the council as a common value in other long-term plans after a long discussion. i believe this figure should be retained for plaice and sole as for the other long-term plans. the practical implementation of amendments 16 or 17 would require that fisheries inspectors be able to distinguish between plaice or sole caught in the north sea and fish of these species caught in other areas, a task which does not seem possible. i can accept the principle and intentions behind amendments 6, 19, 22 and 23, but i believe it should be implemented in a different way. the commission is preparing an evaluation of technical measures and the regulation of fishing gears should be reviewed as soon as possible in that context. if either plaice or sole enters into biologically very high-risk situations, the council should be more cautious in setting fishing opportunities. this is consistent with the guiding principles of the common fisheries policy and will provide additional protection to stocks that are in their most vulnerable state. for this reason, i cannot accept amendment 20. in conclusion, i thank parliament for its careful scrutiny of this document. raising and addressing the issues i have just mentioned will, i am sure, improve the quality and efficiency of the regulation that is eventually agreed in order to achieve the objective of improving the profitability of the fishery and the state of the stocks of plaice and sole, as well as reducing discarding.
on behalf of the pse group ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank the rapporteur for his serious and good work. in my home country of estonia, fishing is more than an industry, more than a bread-making business. fishing is an integral part of our culture. in a land surrounded by water on three sides, it can't be any different. i know families whose families have been fishing for generations. for them, fishing is not a business venture, but a way of life. industrial fishing has brought the lives of coastal fishermen to the brink of extinction. today, the species of salmon and sea bass are among the most endangered, according to the world wildlife fund. half of the milky rays are found to be undersized. they must be thrown back into the sea. most of them die. such waste is incomprehensible to native fishermen. it is clear that the use of wasteful fishing methods should be phased out sooner rather than later. i hope that the european commission will be able to carry out a study immediately and to put forward proposals for the rapid replacement of current fishing methods by environmentally friendly methods. i know very well that the specific nature of fisheries does not allow for such a rapid response as, for example, the information technology economy. i agree with the report's proposal to introduce a quota for three years instead of one-year quotas. this ensures consistency in the fishery. the report also stresses the importance of the european union's role in the development of the baltic sea, which is a major sea of the baltic sea, and the importance of the baltic sea as a source of sustainable fisheries. as regards the baltic sea, i would like to stress here and today that the baltic sea region deserves a separate line in the budget of the european union, as it has for some time in the mediterranean region.
mr president, thank you for making this statement on the occasion of the murder of the russian journalist anna politkovskaya. russia has become one of the deadliest countries for journalists, and her cruel death… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i have a mandate, on behalf of the ppe-de group, to extend the topic of… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i apologise for attempting to speak at the wrong time, but i had a mandate from the ppe-de group to propose that we should extend the first item on today’s agenda to include a discussion on the murder of the russian journalist, anna politkovskaya. i am satisfied that has been done. furthermore, the ppe-de group proposes that the house should adopt a resolution on freedom of the press in russia, which is a burning topic. i think it was rightly said that this horrible murder should not divide this house. we need to be united in order to send a very clear message in support of a woman who many say was the last independent investigative journalist in russia. i hope that this house will support the proposal. the death of anna politkovskaya was not planned and so we could not plan our reaction to it. we need to react immediately. (loud applause)
madam president, i think the best way to honour anna politkovskaya’s work is to read her book putin’s russia, as mr watson has indicated. we need to be aware that systematic intimidation, harassment and murder of independent journalists, as well as the lack of any results from any investigations, have created a climate of impunity in which killers seem not to fear the law. such a trend is seriously damaging to russia’s reputation as a council of europe presidency state. it also casts doubt on our common values. therefore, i would like to ask the presidency of the eu council to raise this issue at the forthcoming lahti summit. the ppe-de group also calls on the commission and the eu member states to take a principled stand in insisting on the restoration of the freedom of the press and respect for independent journalists as among the main prerequisites for renewing the pca agreement next year. only when the eu sends a clear signal that we value the life of this courageous woman not less than oil and gas will things start to change in russia. (applause)the only way truly to honour anna politkovskaya’s passionate commitment to truth, justice and human dignity is to launch a common effort to make real her dream of a democratic russia where citizens will not need to pay with their lives for telling the truth.
mr. president, last saturday, russia became the home of yet another political assassination. the first years of the 21st century have clearly shown that the right to truth by word of mouth is a taboo in russia, which all too often has to be paid for with the most precious thing a person has - his life. political gang violence has become a part of everyday life in russia, and unfortunately, so have we. anna politkovskaya's fight for democracy, human rights and freedom of expression is the best thing she could have done for the future of russia and a better europe. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to believe and hope that the european parliament and the informal meeting of heads of state and government in lahti on 20 october, in the framework of a friendly dinner, will put enough pressure on president putin to bring the truth of this terrible crime to light as soon as possible and to bring to justice all those who took part in it.
a few weeks ago, the world was shocked by the murder of anna politkovskaya. the decades-long suppression of human rights and freedom of expression in chechnya, which anna politkovskaya sought to expose, was suppressed by the methods of political gangsterism. a week ago we were forced to talk about the crisis in georgia, where russia began a political show of force, imposing economic sanctions on georgia, a transport and postal blockade, a ban on imports of georgian products and closed borders, and began expelling georgians from russia. today we must be prepared to prevent any possibility of military force in connection with the independence aspirations of abkhazia and south ossetia. the european union and the european parliament cannot simply look the other way on the situation in georgia, but we must use all the means - from the entire arsenal of neighbourhood policy to border control missions, free trade and visa facilitation - to maintain peace in the transcaucasus.
colleagues, 50 years ago tonight, students and creative people in budapest made 16 demands to the puppet government of hungary. the demands were rejected, the people were fired upon, the uprising began. the hungarians were encouraged by their faith in western aid. european unity seemed natural to them. but the expected help did not come, not even in the form of official declarations. the contemporary suez crisis limited the west's ability to act to some extent, but the real reason for the restraint was the division of europe into yalta's spheres of influence. 13,000 people were repressed by the soviets, 350 of them executed. hungary became a warning example for freedom-lovers. the soviet union is no more. but the spirit of yalta lives on in our fear of standing up for moldova, georgia and other countries that russia considers its sphere of influence. i call on you to abandon fear and stand united for democracy and freedom. in memory of the hungarian victims and to prevent new victims.
as a representative of a new member state, i am very pleased that the second generation of the schengen information system is about to be completed. the problem is that the information system is not ready. when the supreme council confirmed in june that everything was fine and the deadline would not change, two months later the picture was different. today it is probably clear to everyone that the schengen enlargement will be delayed, but it is not clear for how long exactly. i think it would be better for all parties involved if we had an honest answer as to when the merger will take place. the new member states have made a great effort. there's more to do. we have problems in estonia too. but our homework would be much more effective if we had a sense of security for the future. it's not just about freedom of movement. it's also about the fact that a messy situation creates mutual distrust. how does the commission intend to act in this situation and what will the deadlines be? that's a very important question today.
on behalf of the pse group dear colleagues, first of all, i would like to congratulate once again the rapporteur, ruth hieronyme, for her skill in making media 2007 a great instrument to support the european film industry. i'm happy and i'm worried. i am pleased that support for digitalisation has become a central part of the media 2007 programme. but i am concerned that at the current level of funding, the european film industry is not competitive. digitalisation is a challenge that the european audiovisual sector needs to develop its capacity for innovation. digitalisation can be an effective tool to overcome the fragmentation of the european market. i thank the commission, the council and all the colleagues who supported my views as an alternate rapporteur. as things stand, the share of us production in european television programmes has reached a new record. our theaters are also run by hollywood. once the demanding cinema belonged to fassbinder and the french new wave. more recently, the owl mountains and the dogma group. now the intelligent public in europe wants to see asian production. i know that the rise of film geniuses is largely contingent on chance. the current underfunding means that the next european film genius could go to work in america or leave for another field. the media is not just an industry. the media is a tool for identity production. the european union cannot function without a european identity. so i stress again that supporting our film industry is a vital issue. i thank everyone for their work, but i must conclude that we have achieved, in financial terms, a level below that at which we started. that's why i feel sorry for europe.
in his speech today, mr barroso said that the issue of georgia was also raised. we know that touch can be as gentle as a hug or a bear's bite. at the press conference in lahti last friday night, we were all surprised to learn that nothing was going on between georgia and russia. there is a conflict between georgia and abkhazia and ossetia on the other side. president putin has said that the situation is close to bloodshed. but last month, putin told western journalists that if kosovo is separated from serbia, then ossetia, abkhazia and transnistria will secede anyway. since these are not island nations, secession would actually mean joining russia. this is a serious revision of the helsinki agreement of 1975. mr. chairman, we know that the essence of the russian-georgian conflict is not in georgian provocations, but in the new awakening of greater russia, which is based on the one hand on the incitement of russian nationalism, on the other on the use of energy resources to restore the empire. the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan pipeline is not irrelevant. i call on all eu institutions to defend georgia with a stronger hand than ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the transnistrian issue, ladies and gentlemen, is very much a question of the european union's relations with russia. russia has the power to resolve the frozen conflict in transnistria. to this end, it must fulfil the commitment made at the 1999 osce istanbul summit to withdraw its forces from the territory of moldova. it should have been born in 2002. good friends have to be brave and honest. in russia, they respect friends like that. we're the cowards here, and we've been talking out of turn. the european union is therefore facing a serious source of instability from 1 january. i would like to repeat three facts concerning transnistria. first, the transnistrian regime does not seek independence, but merges with russia, which is 800 kilometres away. the region has been part of moldova and ukraine, but never of russia. second, the people of transnistria are not a single ethnic group. the largest ethnic group is the moldovans, who make up up 40 percent of the population, the ukrainians account for nearly 28 percent, and the russian ethnic group is the third largest. thirdly, the people of transnistria would undoubtedly enjoy more democracy and freedom under chisinau's government than they do today. the non-moldovan population of transnistria has never been persecuted by chisinau. russia will not make a move without our authorization. we shouldn't be afraid to push. and the russian-american relationship should be a two-way traffic, a mutually beneficial communication. we need russian energy. but russia needs us to respond. and russia needs our european market. colleagues, it is time to remind russia of what we have given and to demand a return. we have a good resolution, let's take it.
mr president, as far as the background to this debate is concerned, we need a very strong eu commitment in the form of peacekeeping forces to try to prevent the spread of those dangerous conflicts. let us be clear: these quasi-breakaway regions, or frozen conflicts, are being systematically used as leverage by the russian government to retain its influence over the post-soviet neighbourhood. without the continued presence of russian troops – as has been stated by my colleague, mrs mikko – the conflicts we now have to deal with would probably have disappeared. part of the problem seems to be fear of the possible spreading of ‘rose revolutions’ and fear of genuine democratic change in russia itself, which is long overdue. we therefore need to react to acts by the russian government which defy all norms of international behaviour, such as cutting off communications, economic blockades and launching waves of xenophobia in russia itself. the eu of 25 should declare such acts absolutely unacceptable, especially by the country currently holding the presidency of the council of europe. in the european parliament’s resolution we call on russia finally to accept the new realities that have emerged after the end of the cold war and to stop thinking and operating in terms of exclusive zones of influence.
dear colleagues, like other hanseatic cities, my hometown pärnu traded with russia, germany and the nordic countries in the middle ages. each merchant had to speak four local languages. i agree with the thinking behind this report: europeans should know two languages in addition to their mother tongue. knowledge of the language greatly accelerated the re-entry of estonians into europe after the soviet occupation. understanding each other's languages and cultures helps the european sense of belonging to overcome the challenges posed by enlargement and immigration. the estonian people have a saying: "as many languages, as many lives". many people live many lives in the european union. you go to another member state to work temporarily or to live permanently. significant national minorities in many member states have taken root since the post-world war ii reconstruction period. my mother tongue is one of the languages of europe, spoken by a million people. the report emphasises that small languages must be protected. i am adding to protect not only the major languages of the european union, but also the major non-european languages. i mean russian. by offering motivation to learn in addition to language training, we would alleviate the problems that second and third generation immigrants in germany, france and the baltic states have very clearly pointed out. they are far from their place of birth, yet their poor language skills prevent them from being fully integrated into the culture and life of their new home country. costly efforts to enable the conduct of business in major non-european languages are counterproductive, even harmful, in such circumstances. language learning is the most important tool for integration. language training is time-consuming, and it should be started as soon as possible.
in january 1990, finnish prime minister kalevi sorsa organised the great baltic sea conference with the aim of developing new objectives for regional cooperation in the new political situation. unfortunately, the baltic representatives were forced to cancel the conference because we were already aware of the ill-intentioned behavior of russia, which was realized a few days later with the attack on the vilnius tv tower. we used the tribune to draw the world's attention to this danger, and other objectives were ignored. however, we greens have put forward a strategic plan which, when i read it now, i have noticed that despite drastic political changes, the environmental protection of the baltic sea itself has not improved significantly. one of our proposals was to completely stop the transport of oil in the baltic sea. in fact, oil shipments have tripled in the last five years. yesterday, the russian newspaper независимая газета (independent newspaper) published an article about the baltic sea gas pipeline. the article claims that a proposal is now being made to the baltic sea states for the necessary ecological studies. that's great, but unfortunately, there's a long queue. first political, then economic, and then ecological conditions, so to speak, decoratively. also noteworthy is the ending of the article the enemies of the pipeline plan to ruin the whole event with a sunken world war ii battle tank. it is also said that the sixth gas pipe of the former urengoy was sunk, which was the only reason for the collapse of the soviet union. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the baltic sea had all the conditions for organising an ecological survey in good time, the environmental protection organisation helcom and eighty years of scientific cooperation. finally, our delegation likes the approach of alexander stubb, for which we thank him. we also believe that the baltic sea strategy, in accordance with the three pillars of stubb, does not need to deal with the arctic. and we think it would be a good idea to work with the baltic sea environment and, if possible, to include a line in the european union budget for this unique sea in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although this is our common sea, and we have given it different names, we must admit that we have not yet really understood it as a common space and have not taken advantage of all the opportunities it offers. i therefore welcome the efforts of alexander stubb and president toomas hendrik ilves in creating this strategy. under the umbrella of the basic dimension, our joint lake strategy could grow into something even bigger in the future. i think that in a globalising world and in an increasingly multicultural europe, we are all looking for new identities and the baltic sea could play a big role in this, become a kind of symbol. there have been links between the countries bordering the sea throughout history, but cooperation for the development of the region as a whole would take these relations to a new level and would be a win-win for all. the sea itself, which is now one of the most polluted bodies of water, also requires joint action. why do we need this strategy anyway? the common baltic sea area is not a result of individual projects, but of coordinated action... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, this is a joint initiative by members of the new baltic intergroup, successfully chaired by christopher beazley, on the basis of which alexander stubb has drawn up a very efficient report. i would draw your attention to its underlying ethos, which is not to create a separate region, but to open the baltic sea area up to europe as a whole in the interests of all the eu member states. the northern dimension will therefore retain its present foreign policy aspect of cooperation with russia, iceland and norway. however, a very important new internal eu cooperation aspect will be added as a priority, which one might call the ‘beazley pillar’. this is because we need to make full use of the cooperation potential of the eight member states around the baltic sea. various studies show that the competitiveness index in this region is one of the highest of any european region in terms of growth in prosperity and productivity, scientific innovation, physical infrastructure, a skilled labour force and even a low level of corruption. we therefore need to coordinate our efforts to fully harness the four basic freedoms with regard to this region and so achieve a new brand for it as one of the most attractive and rapidly developing in the eu. we therefore also need a special budget line, and this would be our contribution to the development of the lisbon strategy. finally, i would like to remind the commission of the first commandment, which is that the commission should now take the initiative on the basis of this report.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i have my own personal northern dimension, being born in the north of sweden, so i am sure that my colleague mrs ferrero waldner would have had an easier time keeping a cool head in this debate! i have very much enjoyed listening to this discussion on the baltic sea strategy and to whole debate on the northern dimension as a whole. part of challenge is to ensure that the baltic sea strategy is one that embraces all the important elements, and not just those connected to the northern dimension. i am confident that the new northern dimension policy, with its future shared ownership by the european union, russia, norway and iceland, will substantially benefit the baltic sea region because none of the challenges faced by the baltic sea can be tackled without genuine russian involvement, just as none of the challenges faced by the barents sea can be dealt with without russia and norway. let me comment on just a few specific issues that have been raised. firstly, regarding the baltic sea, investment decisions must of course be taken by investors, but the commission’s viewpoint has been that it is very important that proper environmental impact assessments are made for the implementation of the project, and we have not favoured one route over the other. on the kaliningrad oblast, this has of course been a priority sector for the northern dimension policy and will remain so. it is also an area of particular attention in our bilateral relations with russia. the transit regime has now been successfully implemented and has been notably facilitated through very substantial eu assistance, on which the commission expects to present its report by the end of the year. also, although the transit regime is an important issue, we should not forget that the key to success in kaliningrad will be strong economic development in the oblast, supported by the eu in a harmonious manner with the russian programmes for this territory. improved economic growth in kaliningrad to reduce the gap with its immediate eu neighbours would help eliminate the long queues at the border. at the same time, eu investments in border crossing infrastructure will continue. that is how we are engaging with this very important issue. as demonstrated by the very important opening of the st petersburg south-west waste water treatment plant last year, with its tangible beneficial effects in water quality in the gulf of finland, cooperation and cofinancing with the russian federation is possible and it pays dividends both to their citizens and to ours. the forthcoming large northern dimension environmental partnership projects in the kaliningrad oblast combine with tacis projects in the water sector in this same oblast to confirm these premises. furthermore, membership of the northern dimension as regards our eea partners, norway and iceland, also provides a northern pan-european character to this policy, which we should welcome. finally, i would like to add to what diana wallis said. canadian and us involvement also gives the northern dimension a transatlantic and circumpolar value that we should maintain. let me also comment on the budget. in the commission’s view, the proposal in the report to set up a separate budget line for the baltic sea strategy actually entails some risks. it would go against the logic of simplifying the eu’s external financial instruments. the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument would be the natural tool with which to accompany implementation of the northern dimension policy, but other financial instruments will also have a contribution to make. we cannot afford to neglect any of the northern dimension components and we should use all its potential and synergies in full. the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument will provide new opportunities, particularly in the field of cross-border cooperation which, together with a larger contribution from a more prosperous russia, and a notably larger availability of european investment bank funding for this area, will provide the right incentives and improve the well-being of the citizens of the whole of northern europe.
ten years without review and reassessment is too long even for a long-term strategy. the core dimension initiative took shape during the last finnish presidency. finland is now again the chair. meanwhile, the baltic sea region has changed beyond recognition. russia is now rich enough to buy up the energy infrastructure of all of europe. the kremlin is once again confident, even aggressive. the baltic states are now members of the european union, the baltic sea is our inland sea. the baltic sea region is now the most competitive region in the world, thanks in particular to the success of the nordic countries. to maintain this position, it is essential that the region functions as a whole, also in its enlarged form. the report by mr alexander stubb stresses the need for a specific baltic sea strategy. the implementation of the strategy requires funding, which is why a separate budget line for the baltic sea strategy is indispensable. without the budget line, the whole strategy is a thinly veiled rhetoric. the financial side of the base dimension was all about helping russia. the european union's money has been able to significantly reduce the risk of nuclear and conventional pollution from russia. now it is time to move on, to focus on aligning the development levels of the baltic states and the nordic countries. we need to bring internal security, nature protection, transport and infrastructure up to the nordic level. the relatively small markets of the member states must be merged into one. there's a lot of work to be done, and the sooner we start, the better the results will be.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for presenting a comprehensive analysis of the current problems of the european security strategy and for evaluating threats to the modern world. one example of these threats: in paragraph 10 the report stresses a need for a major eu contribution to promote regional disarmament. i would like to draw attention to the kaliningrad area, a heavily militarised russian enclave within the eu. to continue pretending that this last vestige of the cold war and soviet expansion is something with which we have to accommodate would be dangerous and absurd. therefore the demilitarisation of this area, which should be followed by making kaliningrad a pilot project and opening it up to free trade, should be one of the topics to be raised at the forthcoming eu-russia summit. the von wogau report clearly presents our final objective. we are on our way to a security and defence union. however, it also reminds us that the eu is still a long way from this goal. we are just noting progress, increasing capacities and looking for additional money. there are some problems we need to be very clear about. we need to establish a common market in the field of defence, to provide for a european budget to cover both the military and the civil aspects of security and to intensify cooperation between the eu defence ministers, with the final goal of creating the post of deputy eu foreign minister in charge of the esdp. to that end, it is essential to avoid duplication of efforts and to coordinate all these activities with nato. there is an urgent need to provide the same access to space-based intelligence systems for all member states on a common basis.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for raising these human rights issues with our russian partners. however, in the present situation, it is not enough to raise delicate issues. we are also entitled to receive meaningful answers, and then to see changes in the negative pattern that can currently be observed. only such changes, by means of positive reforms, could stimulate the new trust we badly need to continue our strategic partnership. at this point, the commission has to convince the russian administration that democratic values do not have a second-rate status in our negotiating package. this is just what the democratically minded citizens of russia expect from us, and we cannot betray them. secondly, i encourage the commission to be more active in standing up for eu solidarity – our basic principle. all too often, the eu regards member states’ relations with russia as merely a bilateral issue. the eu’s message to russia at this point should be that if political or economic pressure is put on one member state, then that will be a problem for the whole of europe. this could convince our partners to change their behaviour. finally, the eu does have leverage over russia. russia does not care any less about its relations with the eu than we care about them. russia cares about its image as a global partner, so we should also make mr putin work to convince and prove that russia could get rid of this negative pattern, or at least stop lying to us.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the comments made during this debate. it has become very clear that it is in our common interest to have decisions taken through this instrument so that the european union's support for the development of democracy and human rights can continue and be strengthened from the beginning of next year. i would stress once again that this compromise proposal is a possible proposal. it also allows support to be given to political groups which have been considered very important by parliament. i would like to make one more earnest request that we should be able to take a decision, and preferably quite soon. as the debate has shown, this instrument is very much the result of the strong influence of the european parliament. the text of this regulation reflects the strong role of the european parliament. but we must also be prepared to make compromises on matters where there is a joint decisionmaking procedure between the member states and parliament. otherwise, decisions cannot be made.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by thanking you again for the discussion and the many negotiations in which we have finally reached a good compromise. we have come a long way and there has been a great deal of agreement on the objectives and the scope from the outset. the european parliament then proposed that the scope be considerably extended and even more detailed, particularly as regards the involvement of national parliaments and also as regards new measures for human rights defenders. but so-called ad hoc measures are also possible. as regards the question of political parties, i would say that the scope of the regulation is quite explicitly intended to support political pluralism, democratic political representation and democratic reform processes at local, regional and national level. and, as already emphasised, it is also explicitly provided that independent political foundations and parliamentary bodies will be involved as partners in the implementation of measures to promote the development of democracy. the instrument will therefore be able to be used in a really eminent political way, particularly in the democratic field, and i believe that is what we all wanted to achieve. i would therefore say that the text of a new regulation before us, which has been the subject of really intensive negotiations, deserves, in my view, the full support of parliament. i would like to conclude by saying that this is the last of the external financial instruments we have today. i think we have found good, viable solutions for all the others. we should therefore also ensure that we can apply the instrument for democracy and human rights in time from 1 january 2007. we have tried to provide the necessary flexibility.
the development of civil society and democratic mechanisms throughout the world, and particularly in the european union's neighbourhood, is of inestimable importance to the stability of europe itself. we must help overcome the problems on the ground, rather than drowning in a flood of political and economic refugees. the enemies of civil society have exploited our bureaucratic inflexibility, our finger-pointing in program documents. recently, the russian authorities have taken away the basis for the legal existence of several international organisations. under current rules, we can no longer fund these organizations. we face the same problem in the separatist transnistria, whose nuked regime is a keen pupil of the kremlin. the report makes the only correct conclusion: we need to become more flexible. we must be able to respond quickly and adequately, to fund unforeseen actions and organizations that lack government approval. if necessary, fund it even by covering your tracks. such flexibility also requires good supervision. i therefore wholeheartedly support the european parliament's greater involvement in the monitoring.
my dear colleagues! yesterday, igor smirnov, who seized power in transnistria 15 years ago with the help of russian armed forces, allowed himself to be elected president of the illegal state for another five years. the dictator with a russian passport and a kgb school wrote 80% of the votes in his own name. the vote was organised by an illegal government in territory under the control of foreign forces. this result is invalid under international rules. nor does the fact that smirnov's regime allowed three weak candidates to enter a contest whose outcome was known in advance make it any more legitimate. the outcome was decided in moscow this summer. on the urgent recommendation of the kremlin, smirnov's only serious competitor, speaker of the supreme council of transnistria, shevchuk, withdrew his candidacy. the european union must continue to support the territorial integrity of moldova. our border assistance mission has proven successful where russia's substantive veto has crippled the effectiveness of the osce. the main obstacle to the self-determination of the people of transnistria is the presence of russian troops. we must insist on the withdrawal of the troops.
i would like to welcome the rapporteur, mr guido sacconni, and congratulate him on his hard work and his persuasiveness in the many negotiations. the road to success has not been easy, but in the end, everything we've been waiting for has been resolved. this concerns the authorisation and substitution instruments and, to some extent, the mandatory registration. the reach legal framework is one of the most important that the european union has ever put in place. it may even be one of the largest in all the world's parliaments. reach serves a larger purpose in europe by setting a good example for the rest of the world in the future. if we look at the commission proposal and the council's initial position, the european parliament's report goes a long way. most importantly, the substitution process will include all hazardous substances that are banned or have a limited authorisation, with an obligation to plan for substitution or, if substitution is not possible, to develop alternatives. the progress of the law has been the product of active work in the european parliament over the last three and a half years. in the initial phase of the process, my home country, estonia, was not yet a party to the negotiations, but i followed the process of compromise with keen interest. i would therefore like to congratulate the european parliament on the compromise it has reached and i very much hope that the national parliaments will follow our example. i hope that the compromise package will be adopted at the vote on wednesday as it was agreed in the preliminary draft. this would improve the quality of life of european citizens and give a boost to smes in creating new and high environmental standards jobs, making our industry more innovative and competitive.
the development cooperation instrument has been a very delicate compromise between the commission, the council and the european parliament. the european parliament's views have been taken into account to a large extent in the co-decision procedure. any proposal to add something new to the instrument would mean that the instrument would not be applicable from the beginning of next year and perhaps even that the aid would not reach those in need. the instrument covers a wide range of developing countries, from least developed to high-income countries. the instrument also covers a wide range of themes and includes activities previously financed by the environmental budget. i am pleased with the way the procedure has proceeded, in which the people's party has rejected during the debate those amendments which were intended to mention the political institutions, and i shall therefore make a brief conclusion. i would like to stress once again that the development cooperation instrument is a compromise between the institutions and that to stop this procedure would mean delaying and interrupting aid, which is certainly not in keeping with the objective of the instrument to promote democracy and human rights. i therefore support the adoption of the report without any amendments.
the baltic states were liberated from soviet occupation with little bloodshed. most people sacrificed themselves to protect a free and objective press. on august 20, 1990, 20 estonian patriots, protecting the tallinn telemast, confronted the special units of moscow. on january 13, 1991, 15 people were killed protecting the vilnius telemast from russian special forces. dozens more lithuanians suffered in the gas attacks on the tv and radio station and the embassy. when discussing the audiovisual media services directive, the baltic states think more of unbiased journalism than of advertising sales. it's clear to all that by today, the kremlin has the russian press back on its heels. less widely known is the fact that some of the eu media have also been turned into tools of moscow's compliance. our liberalism allows the latvian tv station, the baltic family channel, to voice the russian-speaking population of the three baltic states against the legitimate authority of our countries. this channel is not funded by russian businessmen, but by russian propagandists. their skills have advanced, and the channel's ideological theme has been skillfully hidden in the entertainment. but media experts don't fool with that. each member state must be able to defend itself against such hostile propaganda from outside. my amendment was signed by the deputies of all the baltic states, regardless of their political affiliation. we have experienced the ideological processing of the kremlin and do not want to see it repeated.
mr president, i agree with mrs lehtomäki that enlargement has to continue as an open process because, in defiance of many warnings and fears, all previous enlargements have turned out to be a big success for the eu as a whole. it has been, and will continue to be, a win-win process for all the players involved. mr stubb was right to remind us that every new round of enlargement has forced the eu, in a most positive way, to deepen its internal preparedness through new reforms. the message today is that the nice basis is no longer sufficient for a new enlargement round. there is no alternative to the adoption of the constitutional treaty and applying it in practice. however, the integration capacity is not to be seen as an additional criterion for the new applicants. it should be seen as an internal commitment to make maximum efforts to achieve the necessary new quality of our cohesion. the eu should not send the wrong signal that we will close our doors to new applicants. every european nation is entitled to join the eu and is entitled to be treated not as a guest, but as a potential and welcome member of this ever-growing family. therefore, we need to show maximum openness to the interested nations, including mr milinkevich’s home country. finally, enlargement is not only about the budgets and institutions. there is a huge undercurrent of popular opinions, fears and prejudices. this is popular psychology into which the constitutional treaty has tumbled. therefore, we need openly to address these needs and fears by stimulating frank and friendly debate between old and new member states on our different and historic cultural experiences. my experience is that these fears and prejudices are actually very similar, and that most of them prove to be unfounded. there is a huge reserve of popular support for the constitutional treaty.
the eluned morgan report on the commission's green paper on an energy strategy has been developed by the european parliament from a thin draft report into a full-blown report by means of amendments. it covers most of the energy issues affecting the european union. i have every reason to thank the rapporteur for her efforts. i do have one critical point, though. point 66 with its hope that russia will sign the energy charter is probably outdated by today, given mr. yastrzemski's statement on tuesday. on the other coast of the continent, in sahalin, shell is retreating, and on the opposite side of the baltic sea, the coordination of the gas pipeline has reached a decisive stage. i would like to highlight the positions that are being discussed in sweden and that undermine the sovereignty of the country. i say this to emphasize the need for a single energy policy for the european union, which is missing from the report and is of paramount importance. it is true that this is the first point in the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, but it has not been given the right emphasis in the text of the report.
i'm talking about russia. the official position of the european union is that the blockade of polish meat products in russia is a bilateral issue in which brussels does not intervene. the european union is refusing to ask russia to ratify the estonian-russian border agreement, using the same excuse. this is a reckless act, eagerly supported by the kremlin. now russia is blocking all food imports from the european union at most border points. as a next deliberate move, russia offered bilateral contracts to organise food exports to five leading exporters. that is absurd. russia understands the intricacies of the european union. he's testing our agricultural policy and our unity. as mr. vanhanen rightly said, "we must open our eyes to russia". under putin, russia is run by people for whom the cold war was their life and work. as in the past, europe will only be a winner if it remains true to its core values, democracy and human rights. good luck to the new president.
mr president, on behalf of its southern neighbours i would like to congratulate the finnish presidency. i fully agree with what you said, mr prime minister, that the borders of europe are not drawn on maps but defined by common values. second point. we need to address this huge gap of popular opinion through joint efforts. we need to exchange our experiences, our prejudices, our fears. practice shows that often these fears are not founded. we need to share common historic experiences and common fears and this will be, i hope, a real way to ratify the constitutional treaty.
