on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i wish to begin by thanking all the political groups involved in drawing up this resolution. i pay tribute in particular to mr cashman, mrs in 't veld and mr romeva i rueda for their work. i wish to raise three issues on behalf of myself and my group. the first is that this resolution is not about homosexuality as such but about homophobia, and for us this is really an issue about human rights and whether you approve of beating other people because of their sexual orientation. we all agree that there is a lot to do in all member states and within the institutions. a lot of pressure needs to be applied. commissioner frattini referred to article 13 of the treaty and article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights, and i agree with that; but the key here is to get the member states to abide by them. that is really why we are having this debate: to get the member states into line. the second issue concerns the two problems we are facing in fighting homophobia. the first is the inequality in the legislation of the member states. we have all heard of the problems linked to free movement: one couple being accepted, for instance, in the netherlands but not being accepted and getting the same rights – social or otherwise – for instance, in italy. the second problem is a worrying development in many member states – i do not want to pinpoint any one in particular. we all see and face the problems of hate crimes and discrimination. we must also remember that this is not only about sexual orientation; it is also about gender identity and gender expression. my final point – which goes slightly beyond the scope of this matter – is that we must remember that there are still 75 countries that consider homosexuality to be illegal and 9 countries which impose the death penalty for it. we must get rid of that. (applause)
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is little time for this debate and for the fight against climate change. scientists are extremely concerned about the speed of climate change, they are concerned about the kind of planet their children, our children, will live on. they say that humanity has at most ten years to turn emissions down fast or, as chris davies said, maybe it's already too late. the only agreement reached in montreal was to start negotiations on future reductions. we all know that the united states is a major player in the climate change disaster. the eu now has a great responsibility, so our leadership must be clear. the next climate conference will be chaired by finland, whose line in montreal was completely unclear. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the eu's external relations. we need a programme for the eu's own emissions reductions for the years 2020-2050. this is also what companies need. to invest wisely, they need to be able to estimate the value of their investments and the cost of their emissions in the years ahead.
mr president, the commission considers that the purpose of this directive is to facilitate the opening up of the market in port services and thus to increase the competitiveness of european ports. in fact, however, the directive would not open up the market but would increase bureaucracy, reduce the productivity of ports and also reduce competition. the commission's proposal is very contradictory. the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, has done a very good job and has made some changes in the right direction, but i must say that jarzembowski is not exactly a miracle worker either. if the motion is not good enough, it will not be good enough here in parliament. europe does not need more bad governance, but europe and we must ensure the quality of work in ports, the safety and rights of workers and the flexibility of ports. the eu must focus on the essentials, and the commission's simplification strategy aims to - or has been said to - 'dismantle' unnecessary regulation. well, in this case, it hasn't worked. i hope that the commission will apply the principles of its declaration to the port services directive and to all its activities. this directive must be rejected.
mr president, the lisbon strategy also means that unnecessary and inefficient legislation is curtailed and bureaucracy is not increased. european port services are already highly competitive in terms of both quality and cost. this is not a genuine conflict between labour and capital, as the proposal is seen as harmful rather than beneficial by port owners, users and workers in various european countries. the aim is to abandon competition for the sake of competition and to concentrate on quality and safety. this directive does not increase competition, but on the contrary may even hinder it, for example by increasing bureaucracy through the licensing system. the ilo convention guarantees the privilege of this work to registered skilled dock workers, and this is confirmed in finland by a collective agreement. it is above all a question of safety: would it be occupational safety for seamen if they had to handle cargo in a foreign port after a hard day's work?
mr president, i too should like to join with all those colleagues who have remarked on the excellent work of the rapporteurs, mr el khadraoui and mr zīle. i support the view of the rapporteur concerning the necessity of developing a common external aviation policy for the eu. however, in addition to the eu aviation policy, we must be able to develop bilateral aviation agreements with third countries, as many of our partners have difficulties in committing to those common union agreements. nevertheless, i underline that those bilateral agreements should be in addition to and complement – not replace – the common aviation policy. most importantly, the normal functioning of air traffic should be assured without useless confrontation while we are negotiating. as the rapporteur has stated, we have noted the difficulties in negotiating a comprehensive agreement with russia. the charges imposed for flights over its territory are clearly against international law and are not acceptable. sad but true, it seems that russia will always somehow utilise its airspace for strategic purposes. i do not believe that we will get rid of those charges even though russia would no longer collect overflight charges. every year we in the european union pay around eur 250 million in such charges. unfortunately, a major part of that sum ends up in the accounts of russian airline aeroflot. that is also bad for the competition situation in europe. for finland these charges are significant, as the only realistic option to fly to asia is over siberia. we should ensure that a level playing field exists for all eu operators. today that is not the case, as those charges are often arbitrary and differ from one airline to another. as russia seems to prefer bilateral cooperation, it is with happiness that i note that a more open attitude prevails in china. i would hope that the council would agree to start negotiations with china and give the commission a proper mandate for achieving a common aviation agreement. finally, by ensuring sustainable economic and regulatory conditions for air traffic to asia, we also revitalise the european aviation industry and ensure the possibility of offering efficient flight connections and routes, including in the more sparsely populated and geographically distant areas of europe, such as the northern part of finland.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, the world is still burning fossil fuels. it is estimated that by 2030 more than 80 percent of mankind's energy will be derived from fossil fuels. there are 179 trillion cubic meters of proven gas reserves on earth, a quarter of which is in russia, and another quarter in less stable regions of iran and qatar. it can be calculated that the eu's current consumption of its own gas will only last for six or seven years. the use of norwegian and north african gas for eu needs increases the time perspective of gas combustion by 20 years, but russian gas by 50 years. with the eu planning to meet all its energy needs in the coming decades with gas, there is no alternative to imports from russia. in the coming years, cheaper liquefaction methods will be developed, diversifying the possibilities for importing gas. it also narrows them down. lng from russia can then be sold to the gas-poor united states without the need for pipelines. the united states has no gas reserves for another ten years. western europe has been dependent on russia for pipelines through other countries. the dependency will be reduced by the planned pipeline under the baltic sea. the project is understandable, since some of the current transit countries are hostile to russia. we have not had a single gas supply problem in finland in 40 years. one thing about the russian-ukrainian gas deal needs clarification: who owns the brokerage firm ros-ukr-energo? i've calculated, based on the information that's been released, that it will benefit from the deal in an unexplained way of $600 to $800 million. in which countries have the oligarchs been involved, and what is the role of the presidents of these countries in the creation of the large hidden profits? our group supports good relations of cooperation and energy cooperation with russia. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, in 20 years' time we will indeed be 90% dependent on gas imports. that's quite an accomplishment. the amount of gas used and the stocks held vary widely between member states, and so does the degree of crisis sensitivity. the more eastern the member state, the more dependent it is on gas from russia. the european union has put pressure on russia to abandon its internal dual pricing of energy, including gas. we consider it a condition of wto membership. i therefore do not believe that the double pricing of energy can last very long in russian foreign trade. it is true that in shops it is generally permissible to give discounts to good loyal customers, as is the case in many other sectors, but this of course depends on the relationship between the seller and the buyer. i admit that shutting down the gas line was wrong and very unwise. this is not the way european trade works, not even in much smaller areas, let alone on such a central issue. the energy situation in the european union is constantly on the verge of crisis. it doesn't take a storm on the other side of the ocean or the ukraine case to create a crisis or even panic. we need fast and versatile energy sources, versatile supply and transmission networks and there is no time to waste: bedrooms can be cooled at any moment. we need an energy crisis programme from the commission as a matter of urgency. now, these means we have are not enough. how do we prepare for a longer break, commissioner? what solidarity mechanisms could be envisaged and will the forthcoming green paper address energy crisis issues?
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs fruteau, and the chairman of the committee, mr dauil, for their cooperation in producing a very good sugar policy, which is easy to vote for this week. but while this sugar reform is necessary, it is also a question of how this process is carried out and how farmers in the various member states experience it, in particular whether farmers in the member states feel that they are being treated equally. for example, in my own country, finland, there was a long-standing fear that this original commission proposal would end all sugar production in our country. this would certainly have been the case had the commission's original decision entered into force. now, under the forthcoming decision, finland will have to close down another sugar factory and pay the aid to its producers. this cannot be described as a victory for finland, but it would be important for you, commissioner, to convince the finns and the farmers of the other small member states that the agreements will be respected in the future and that farming will be possible in all countries. this is a way to dispel unnecessary fears. the second point is that it has been stated in public that the decision has now been taken and that there is no longer any possibility of influencing it here in parliament. this is not the way to go about it, and i hope, commissioner, that you will also give assurances that parliament will always be consulted and cooperate in good time on all matters relating to agriculture. the citizens will then also have confidence that this system will work.
the rapporteur. mr president, the regulation on the application of the provisions of the aarhus convention to the community institutions, which will be put to the vote tomorrow, will bring us to decisions of a very political nature. this is a major piece of environmental legislation, which concerns access to environmental information and the right of citizens to participate in decision-making. the aarhus convention, which has been ratified by the member states and the eu, is implemented in the european community by means of three directives, the first two of which, the so-called pillars, have already passed the co-decision procedure with conciliation. throughout the process i have been the rapporteur for the reports on the aarhus convention. these pillars concern the transparency of environmental information and the right of the community to participate. the third directive, the right to appeal, is likely to be abandoned altogether, as the member states have not reached agreement on the subject and the project has been postponed. the right to appeal has also proved to be the major problem of this regulation. i have always stressed the rights of citizens in environmental matters. openness and transparency are the lifeblood of democracy and an essential part of our own security. however, the regulation under consideration, which extends the application of the provisions of the aarhus convention to the community level, is in danger of having some worrying features. in its own vote, the european parliament's committee on the environment clearly changed the focus of the provisions, taking the agreement to a new, in my view undesirable level. it is one thing to control and regulate how, for example, a public authority applies and interprets the provisions of environmental legislation, but it is another to control and regulate how a democratically elected legislator acts. the committee's design would give virtually all ngos that fit the very loose definition the right to challenge the community institutions before the ec court of justice, thus giving ngos a kind of watchdog status vis-à-vis the institutions. as a politician, however, i am not prepared to delegate the power that the citizens have democratically given us and controlled in this way, and i hope that this matter will be corrected in the vote in plenary tomorrow. the most critical points in tomorrow's vote concern amendments nos 22, 24 and 25. article 230 of the ec treaty gives citizens the right to bring an action before the court of justice if the decision directly and individually concerns them, which is appropriate in the interests of democracy. the position of the parliament's committee on the environment now means that any ngo operating within the eu can circumvent this act by requesting an internal audit, to which the community institution must respond by a formal decision. this decision, together with amendment no 25, opens the way to an examination of the legality of the original decision, not only of the methods but also of the content, and thus gives the ngos the power to assess the action of the community institutions in the last resort. this would give them automatic access to the community institutions and thus, as the ultimate authority, to control our actions. in a democracy, the people are the supreme authority, and the people's elected officials carry out their will. but now we would put the ngos above the people and that's hard for me to accept. it is a matter of policy and principle. don't get me wrong, we need environmental organizations, and the world would be a much worse place if ngos hadn't rightly raised many issues. but what they are now lobbying hard for is questionable. in addition, the definition of ngos in the regulation is quite loose, and i have therefore tabled two amendments to clarify the criteria. the first requires that the ngo has been active in more than one eu country for at least two years. the second amendment adds the words "law abiding". these revisions are essential to keep internal revision requests within manageable limits and to provide additional criteria for the nature of the activities of ngos. in this report, our committee members have tabled amendments which i am happy to support. i myself have stressed the quality and comparability of environmental data, for example. i also support democracy and openness in our decision-making whenever i can. but i really only hope the same for environmental organizations: if they themselves complied with what they demand of us, if they were more transparent in their activities and financing, if they gave less misleading and incorrect information, these restrictions and criteria would not be necessary. it has been a worldview disappointment to find that ngos do not always provide accurate information or correct what has been revealed to be incorrect. a good example of this is the letter received this week from the major environmental organisations, which gives a false impression of the possibility of an appeal to the courts which may now be open to them. they mention the possibility for industrial companies to bring actions before the ec court, and now this legislation would only bring them to the same level. e letter omits to mention that now environmental organisations are not seeking to be on the same level as companies, which are required by the decision in question to be concerned with them 'directly and individually', i.e. as parties to the case, but that environmental organisations would now be able to choose the subject matter in which they are interested throughout the union without any criteria of relevance. the error was that this essential detail was left unsaid. the aarhus convention is an important part of a functioning democracy. therefore, civil rights must not be abused in the context of appeals, to slow down projects or to give room for fundraising campaigns by ngos. i cannot accept that the work of political decision-makers should be stumbled over by the endless complaints of the organisations. it is not appropriate to make the right of appeal a perpetual motion. abuses would undermine the very rights of citizens that we set out to defend in the first place. it is therefore necessary to be careful now, in the context of the plenary debate, as to how the community actually applies the right of appeal. i hope that parliament will move closer to the council's position, which i consider to be balanced.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, anne ferreira, in particular, for giving me this opportunity to speak. sustainable development is a metric that should be reflected in all eu policies and decision-making. sustainable development cannot be separated from industrial, competition or economic policies, let alone energy, transport or agricultural policies. it was therefore a great disappointment that this sustainable development strategy was not revised at the same time as the eu competitiveness strategy. the eu's competitiveness can only be based on increasing growth in environmentally friendly production and consumption. consumption can be influenced by the right price of the product or service. environmental costs must be included in the price. this will encourage environmentally friendly production. to achieve real results, verifiable indicators for sustainable development policy must be found. the rapporteur, among others, has agreed with this. these indicators can only be achieved by setting sufficiently ambitious quantitative and qualitative targets. quantitative targets - when set correctly - indicate where we have succeeded and where we need to improve in order to achieve an environment that no longer causes any harm to human health or to the resilience of nature. when we set ourselves sufficiently high targets, they also encourage the development of new environmental technologies, for example, which in turn stimulate european growth and thus lead to real sustainable development.
mr president, i would actually have the same remark about the homophobia issue as i have about this autism. i am absolutely against discrimination against homosexuals, but the title of the report has failed. if we are talking about the real problem here, discrimination, why on earth do we use the totally inappropriate word homophobia? phobias are classified as anxiety disorders. they are states of fear, considered as neurotic disorders, and need therapy to help them and cannot be treated by political guidance ... (interrupted by the speaker)
the rapporteur. mr president, i left my speech in an awkward place when time ran out, and i want to correct that. i'm just going to read what i had to say so that the environmental organizations don't get the wrong idea of what i said: an example of this is the letter received this week from the major environmental organisations, which gives a misleading picture of the possible right of appeal which is now open to them. they mention the possibility for industrial companies to bring actions before the ec court of justice, and now this legislation would only bring them to the same level. the letter omits to mention that environmental organisations are now far from seeking to be on the same level as undertakings, which are required by the decision in question to be concerned by them 'directly and individually', that is to say as parties to the case, but that environmental organisations would now be able to choose, throughout the union, without any criteria of relevance, the subject matter in which they are interested. the error was that this essential detail was left unsaid.
in writing. we have abstained in the final vote on the afghanistan resolution. we were against the united states-led invasion of afghanistan and we demand the withdrawal of the united states-led coalition forces. we believe that the isaf forces should be formed by countries which have not been involved in the united states coalition forces, and mainly formed by muslim countries, in order to facilitate communication with and understanding of the afghan people. the isaf peacekeeping forces should be under the direct command of the united nations, independent of nato. but in the resolution we also note several important points on the need to develop democracy, the living standards of the people and gender equality, as well as the need for a stronger regime of development aid to afghanistan. the conclusion for us is therefore to abstain in the final vote.
mr president, i am absolutely opposed to discrimination against homosexuals. i am sorry, however, that the title of the report was a complete failure and that we had to vote no on some points. if we are talking about the real problem here, discrimination, why on earth is the completely inappropriate psychological word "homophobia" used? phobias are classified as anxiety disorders, which are states of fear that are considered to be neurotic disorders. they need therapy and cannot be treated by political intervention, any more than claustrophobia or arachnophobia. true phobias often develop because of some childhood event, and they may have well-founded reasons. what i'm worried about is that if people here start blaming their emotions or their phobias, it just becomes another form of discrimination and manipulation.
mr president, i was one of the drafters of the climate resolution and one of the participants in the montreal meeting. i cannot consider the montreal result as nearly as positive as we are now forced to say here in the name of political correctness. only a quarter of emissions are covered by reduction commitments, and so i think it is a little intellectually dishonest to talk about achievements. sooner or later the eu must stop this rhetoric and face the facts. if three quarters of the world's greenhouse gas producers are allowed to continue to increase their emissions, it is time to recognize that this recipe has failed and to take other kinds of climate action. but is it political pride if we are unable to admit such a thing?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would like to make three points. first, it is nice to start talking about the constitution again. the budget is out of the way; we can start focusing on other things. to me, it seems as if the constitution has been in intensive care for the past eight or nine months. now it has been slowly taken out and i think the process of recovery will be slow, but i think we should be looking at 2009. i think the message of this report is that all options are open; easy does it; let us not say that the constitution is dead; let us not start renegotiating; let us not say that this treaty cannot enter into force. we have time and we have to think about it. the second point is that recently there has been some controversy between the european parliament and the speakers of three national parliaments. we need to turn that into a positive. the european parliament should not, and must not, be arrogant or paternal towards the national parliaments. yes, let us have a european forum, but let us do it together and have a real debate about the future of the union. my final point is that from some sections in the past few months we have heard talk about ‘core europe’. i think that talk is absolute and utter rubbish, because the people we hear it from are usually the people who want to put the brakes on integration. let us start by ratifying the constitution; let us get the ball rolling, let us work together and, most importantly, let us work together within the institutions of the european union. i cringe at any talk about ‘core europe’ outside. the best way forward is to do it inside the treaty, do it together, and i am sure we can overcome this and have a constitution by 2009.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been taking resolutions on chechnya for fifteen years now and they have always been critical. parliament also sent a delegation to chechnya in the second year, and i was its chairman. however, that has already been forgotten in today's resolution. today's joint statement contains many critical points about this conflict. it proposes that the duma establish a commission of inquiry to investigate the actions of the authorities in chechnya. the second proposal is to set up a temporary international joint tribunal to investigate these crimes. i have other suggestions. our proposals have not produced any results in all this time. i asked the presidency if we could discuss the whole conflict together, not just the parts that annoy russia, but bring the whole issue to the table together with russia. we can get help there, like ferrero-waldner said. we have every interest in appeasing russia, and the russian leadership has asked for good advice, so let's find a way out together. the president of the presidency would have a good link with president putin in this context, he could speak directly to him.
for the alde group mr president, the liberal group is quite satisfied with the content of the tannock report, but we would have liked to see some conceptual improvements. the commission originally used the term 'neighbourhood policy' alongside the term 'wider europe'. it is generally intended to cover the whole of europe, both in scientific and political debate. the tannock report contains a large number of proposals for developing pan-european cooperation, including within the council of europe and the eec, but this is not taken into account in the interim review. that is why we proposed replacing the unsuccessful title after paragraph 30 with the words 'wider europe'. the liberal group also proposed that the concept of the 'southern dimension' be included in the report. it would best describe the union's external relations with the south, the mediterranean, the wider middle east and the countries to its east. it would be consistent to talk about the northern and southern dimensions of the union's policy side by side. the third conceptual proposal was to incorporate in the report the idea of developing europe as a system of concentrated centres, consisting of flexible decentralization within the union and the creation of functional centres of cooperation around it. this idea offers an opportunity to seek a solution to the conflict between deepening and enlarging the union. it was supported in the intergroup discussions but was not included in this report. i wonder why. as we have not received sufficient support from the other groups to implement this and other conceptual improvements, we will not put them to the vote. we wait for better times to accept them. i thank the rapporteur, mr tannock, for the good cooperation he has shown, particularly for accepting our proposal to strengthen the northern dimension in the report and the proposals for pan-european cooperation, even though this important concept of a wider europe was not included.
mr president, the report by mr tannock on the committee on foreign affairs is in many respects thorough. it contains many positions in politically sensitive areas for which no one has to bear responsibility, since the report was drawn up on the committee's own initiative in a field where the european parliament has no competence. the report reflects the trend towards giving non-eu countries hope for help and support. in this way, the countries of the neighbourhood policy, many of which are not neighbours of the eu, are politically linked to the union. the report does not clearly state which countries can join the european union. we do not want to say to ukraine, for example, that it is not good enough or that it is good enough, even though ukraine is a much more european country than turkey. in reality, ukraine's long-term membership is so far behind the times that it is not even in sight. the report makes a very clumsy reference to the eu constitution, rather than thinking about how to approach membership of the union through a structure and from the perspective of the european economic area. corrupt government is a part of everyday life in many neighboring countries. for example, it would be interesting to know who owns ros-ukr-energo, which manages the russian-ukrainian gas deal. i wonder if even the president of ukraine is clean on that? ukraine, after the 'orange revolution', is an example of corrupt government. for example, azerbaijan, or kazakhstan and turkmenistan, which are located further east at the source of gas and oil, should also be assessed from the point of view of this abuse of power in the same way as belarus and not only from the point of view of gas and oil supplies.
mr president, commissioner, smes are important employers and it is for this very reason that the european charter must be a worthy project. at the same time, the commission must quickly indicate which member states have not yet improved their performance and implemented the charter priorities. smes are a great asset and opportunity for us. we must constantly streamline and simplify legislation and make it easier to set up new businesses. all measures to facilitate the entrepreneurial climate are supported by our group. the main objective should be to harmonise corporate taxation. the problem with the charter is that it does not contain enough concrete measures to support innovative businesses and their networking opportunities. more efficient use of the internet and e-commerce are areas of great opportunity. the development of electronic public services in the member states to support the conditions for the operation of smes is also important. the union must act swiftly to implement the provisions of basel ii, and that would help. the commission and the council must also take action again on the community patent, which is a difficult but important matter. the state aid legislation could be reviewed so that companies could receive aid even if private risk finance is not willing to join. of course, it is good to set up small businesses purely to provide employment for oneself, but ambitious and inventive companies are the fuel we need and which is important.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu's role as an international actor is important and has been strengthened in recent years. the eu achieves results through soft means - i mean negotiations, discussions, persuasion and crisis management. this is sometimes slow, but it creates a strong foundation for sustainable solutions and a functioning society. the eu's foreign policy is based on democracy and we want to promote it. i would like the eu to emphasize more strongly in this context that there can be no democracy without literacy, and there can be no democracy without respect for women's rights. so more should be done to help children, young people and women all over the world to learn to read. it creates a lasting basis for democracy, peace and respect for human rights.
mr president, i have been listening attentively and i thought i had heard it all, but when i heard daniel cohn-bendit supporting nuclear power – albeit in iran – i must say i was a little shocked. who says that joschka fischer changed? i think ‘red danny’ has changed a little himself! i will take an institutional perspective and make three points. the first is that cfsp and defence are key areas for us in the future. we are a superpower in trade and in aid, but we are very often nowhere to be seen in cfsp and defence. something needs to be done and i disagree with mr piotrowski. the first thing we need is a constitution. the second point i wanted to make was that we need three things: firstly, we need a common defence – we need the security guarantees that the constitution would give us. secondly, we need to speak with one voice. for that we need a president and a foreign minister. thirdly, we need to increase the cfsp budget. all of those should be packaged into one. if we get some political will behind it, i think we just might get a common foreign and security policy. the third point is that we really need to start thinking about the different elements of the constitution and look at it in two parts. there are things that we are already implementing, such as the european defence agency, the battle groups and the clause on solidarity with terrorism. but there are things that we need to start implementing as quickly as possible when the constitution enters into force. those issues include a president, a foreign minister, an external relations service and prior consultation with the european parliament. the final point i wanted to make is that instead of sticking to the institutional battle between the commission, the council and the european parliament in cfsp matters, we need to get ready, put our working clothes on and do it together.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, first i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and for this opportunity to discuss violence that women face in their daily lives. violence against women is not a marginal problem; women from all social groups can be victims of violence. sometimes high-achieving professional women think they are untouchable. every woman can be abused. it cannot be said that this is not a problem for us or for eu women. even though the report focuses on violence by men against women, and especially domestic violence, we should not forget that this is not the only type of violence, despite, undeniably, being the most common. unfortunately, children are also often targets of domestic violence, as are men. even though they are not the focus of our discussion today, we should not forget that these things happen too. none of this kind of domestic violence should be allowed to happen. the rapporteur mentions the figure of 100 million women in the eu who have suffered from violence from men. the commission estimates that almost 1000 women die in europe every year due to violence in their partnerships. in finland alone, the police make 80 000 house calls, and 17 000 of them are due to domestic violence – and we are a country which ranks fifth in the world’s gender equality rankings. these are horrific figures. we need to act. so what can we do? first we should ensure that member states take action in combating domestic violence. more efficient legislation and its true implementation are crucial, as well as coordination between all those involved in this field. we should also take into account the studies conducted in the united states which showed a clear correlation between animal abuse and domestic violence. it has been shown that many domestic violence cases have been preceded by animal abuse. this is something from which we in europe could perhaps learn. in addition to more traditional type of violence against women, we have recently witnessed a rise in honour crimes and genital mutilation. i was very happy to hear that the commission is putting more emphasis on this human right. every woman has a right to decide about her own body. that is very important.
in writing. i have voted for the joint motion for a resolution on cuba, but it is missing several important facts in the political context. the main problem in the cuban situation is caused by the us-led blockade and the aggressive us threats against cuba. putting an end to the blockade and stopping the aggressive threats by the us would be the most important step in creating an atmosphere in which there would be better possibilities to create true democracy in cuba. but the aggressive us policy is not the only reason for the severe restrictions on freedom of expression and democracy in cuba. the cuban government has also its own individual responsibility to bear. one example, among others, is the decision not to let the sakharov prize winners, the damas de blanco leave the country to receive the prize in strasbourg. i have voted for the resolution, but i protest against the cuban government’s travel ban on the damas de blanco.
mr president, state aid policy must be consistent with the eu's stated political objectives. the aid must stimulate sustainable growth and competitiveness and reduce regional disparities. aid should not be granted where these principles are violated. the right targeted state aid encourages business and job creation, including in areas suffering from various types of permanent natural disasters or far from major markets. the areas affected by persistent natural disasters, such as those in the north, must be aligned with objective 1 areas. the aid must be more targeted and must be directed in particular at bottlenecks in business activity, such as risk finance for the creation and deployment of new technology. particular attention will be paid to environmental technologies and their potential for job creation.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i too would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good job. the regulation on local border traffic which we are now facing has proved to be very important for the union's external border regions, especially in the east. traditionally, such border areas are often perceived as peripheries with slow development. if you believe that, this situation is also easily realized. it is therefore necessary to send clear signals to the border population: you will have contacts in all directions. the border is not the end for you. the ability to move seamlessly across borders is the foundation for contacts, friendships, trade and creative innovation. it is likely that many people living on the russian-estonian border, for example, as well as on the slovenian-croatian border, will be grateful for the very flexible solution now proposed. when it comes to promoting people-to-people contacts, you have to be consistent. it is not consistent to take positive steps first - as is now the case - in local border traffic and in the bilateral visa agreement with russia reached last october, and then almost double the visa fee from 35 to 65 euros, something on which the council of ministers is actually preparing to take a decision next week on a proposal from france. if this decision is taken, it will of course not be long before the russian side also raises the fee to about the same. this is a clear blow to frontier tourism. for example, to make a boat cruise on the saima canal in eastern finland to the russian side, you will have to pay more in visa fees than in the cost of the cruise itself. the doubling of the fee is totally contrary to the objective of our visa policy. there is no more effective way to stop natural contacts between people than such a shock increase in the fee. the direction should be the opposite. i therefore urge all my colleagues to take advantage of the time available and to contact their governments at the last minute to stop this decision. the right hand must know what the left hand is doing. we have to live up to our values. we must not give rise to the idea that the union is building walls around itself, as ewa klamt has just emphasized.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr roth. we support the line he has chosen and, of course, the idea of a framework directive. the last few months have shown in concrete terms the importance of developing alternative energy sources and energy saving. it is absolutely essential to reduce europe's dependence on imported fossil fuels and energy. how do we cope with 70 percent dependency in 2030? so our future is in the hands of outsiders if we don't change the situation. the european union must support new technologies and innovations that exploit alternative energy sources for heating and cooling. these innovations can substantially expand our energy options. the use of biomass and new technologies creates jobs and conditions for businesses, so they are good for this too. i am pleased that the commission has just adopted the work programme to start implementing the intelligent energy europe programme. i believe that parliament will support this. this programme launched swot analyses at the initiative of the union. they specifically promote heating and cooling with renewable energy sources and heat pumps. this new technology has already proven to reduce significantly the electricity consumption for heating and cooling, by up to a third. with devices like this that can be easily installed in any building, we can achieve significant energy savings. i think it's better to save on consumption. it is also a good guide for life in general. that's all i wanted to say in a nutshell. i believe that our commissioner has heard our voice. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the services directive has been a very emotional one. the swinging of stamps is not entirely avoided either. in a democracy, decisions are made through discussion, sometimes long discussions. the debate in the european parliament has improved the commission's proposal. it's become acceptable. the directive has not been watered down by amendments, but it is a question of the functioning of democracy. some say that the eu parliamentarians are afraid to make bold reforms and that we are afraid to push through this original directive. i would answer that we do not work in any ivory tower. we will address legitimate concerns when necessary and amend the directive when we see fit. we are hearing the voice of the people and that is how it should be. this is called democracy, which the union says it respects and even markets to the outside world. i am prepared to support reasonable compromise proposals, because it is better to reach a thin agreement than a fat argument. but i am sure we have a chance to find a strong consensus on this. that would be good for the european single market. on the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that member states are not given free rein to restrict the movement of services on too light a ground. finally, i would like to thank evelyn gebhard, all my colleagues and also commissioner mccreevy.
mr president, i have two pieces of bad news, two pieces of good news and one recommendation. the first piece of bad news is that i am rather saddened by the debating atmosphere that we have in europe today. it is one of protectionism, nationalism, near-racism and xenophobia. to me, as a pro-european and as a federalist, protectionism is anti-european. my second piece of bad news concerns the commission. i am a big fan of the commission. i always support it. however, mr mccreevy, trust me: do not have your office call upon me to water down the services directive. it is your job to defend the services directive, not to defend protectionism. your office wanted to make this into not the freedom to provide services, but into the freedom to prevent services. please let that be the last time! the good news is, first, that i believe we will have a compromise tomorrow. i believe we will move forward. we need this directive. the second piece of good news is that we might get a broad majority in the european parliament. i hope that the austrian presidency can get a broad majority in the council. my final point is a recommendation: my modest recommendation is to approve the compromise on article 16 as it stands between the pse and the ppe-de groups, as long as we get three things into the directive: firstly, health services; secondly, temporary working agencies; thirdly, posting of workers. those are essential. i believe that the way in which this debate has gone is very unfair. we see it as a case of old versus new. it is not. it is about protectionism and liberal markets. i am afraid that some of us are losing it.
mr president, the compromise proposed is better accepted than rejected. in any case, this is the beginning of a common, functioning labour market. as legislators, we must strive for punctuality. any ambiguity in the directive is a potential case for the ec court of justice. the more educated a person is, the more certain he is that his field is outside the directive and protected from genuine competition. europe needs economic growth. growth is achieved by increasing employment or increasing productivity. social dumping is not countered by restricting the movement of people but by creating a cross-border system whereby the customer of services is responsible for compliance with the terms of employment. how can we imagine competing with china or india if we cannot remove unnecessary barriers to competition in our own member state?
mr president, the rapporteur, mr kindermann, has produced an excellent report on the implementation of the eu's forestry strategy. thank you very much. i would also like to thank you for the good cooperation in the preparation of this report. in the european union, as we have already said, the forestry sector employs 3.4 million people and its output is worth eur 350 billion. in many countries, such as finland and sweden, its national economic importance is central. in addition to its own production, forestry employs a large forestry cluster, including a substantial metal and electrical industry. the importance of forestry will only increase as new energy production opportunities are sought, among other things. however, the eu does not have a common forestry policy, although many policy areas, such as rural development and environmental policy, have a strong impact on this area. the overall assessment of forestry measures is therefore appropriate. the report proceeds from the premise that forestry policy itself will remain a matter for the member states in the future. the report does not want to create a new bureaucracy like the european union's agricultural policy. the report supports the commission's proposal for an eu action plan for sustainable forest management. the fragmentation of the political sphere is what demands this. the future of a sustainable industry using renewable resources must be better guaranteed. the report does not support the creation of a separate forestry agency. this is just right. we must also learn to rationalise our policies within the eu so that we can carry out new tasks with the resources we have without having to create a new agency every time. i look forward to the commission's further proposals.
i would like to thank mr kindermann in particular for his clear statement of what european forestry policy is and what needs to be done. i would like to draw particular attention to the multiple uses of forests and the use of wood in new and innovative ways. the raw material has many characteristics which are not yet exploited. wood can be used to replace plastics, saving non-renewable raw materials. the chemical industry can exploit wood raw material and its properties in entirely new ways. the food industry has many opportunities, for example in the production of health-promoting foods. but all this requires new research and new knowledge. i therefore propose that we consider setting up a european forestry and wood research unit of excellence to deal with these matters.
for the alde group mr president, the rapporteur, mr mcguiness, has produced an excellent report on the commission's proposal for a rural development guideline. thank you very much. rural europe is home to more than half the eu's population and accounts for almost half of the eu's gross value added. however, the regions are lagging behind the other regions in terms of different indicators. among other things, unemployment is higher in these areas. the european countryside is facing major changes. the overall reform of agricultural policy has been launched, which is reducing the capacity of agriculture to provide employment and sustain rural population. this requires specific measures to revitalise rural life. the commission proposes a number of different options. the strategic guidelines are based on the regulation on the eu's rural development fund, adopted last year as regards the text, which defines three priorities and the leader community initiative. the report contains many improvements to the text presented by the commission. the european council's poor presentation of the eu's financial perspective for the next seven years is, however, clouding the debate on the report. the council cut the appropriations proposed by the commission and supported by parliament by as much as eur 19 billion, or more than 20%. in this way it is effectively destroying the rural development and settlement policy which is strongly supported by parliament and the commission. it is therefore expected and required that this matter will be taken up again in the financial negotiations between parliament and the council and that the situation will be corrected accordingly. this is not only required for overall rural development, but also for improving the eu's energy self-sufficiency and other challenges.
mr president, today we are forced to condemn azerbaijan's continued disregard for the unesco world heritage convention. the country's commitments as a member of the council of europe are also being put in a special light by the destruction of the cemetery in djulfa. twelve years after the end of the actual conflict between azerbaijan and armenia, the situation of the armenian minority in azerbaijan, especially in respect of cultural heritage, is very unstable. the destruction of the cemetery in djulfa can be compared, for example, to the destruction of buddha statues by the taliban in afghanistan. it's about respecting the past and human history. what can be the result of judging events? we are left with the hope that the damage to the cemetery in djulfa will be inspected by an impartial body and that the remaining graves will be restored. the hope is also that the protest will help prevent future destruction of cultural heritage. the destruction of the cemetery of djulfa is an offence against the heritage of humanity and as such must be condemned. the destruction of unique christian monuments is an irreparable loss to mankind. (applause) i would like to thank the
member of the commission. mr president, the world water forum is an international forum for exchanging views and experiences on the best ways of managing water and tackling the problem of water scarcity. the fourth meeting of this forum, to be held in mexico city later this month, will address actions that can be taken at the local level to address the global challenge of water scarcity. the aim is to discuss ideas for better supporting local actions on a global scale. the outcome of these discussions will make a substantial contribution to the water and sanitation section of the 16th session of the united nations commission on sustainable development in 2008. the 4th world water forum is not expected to produce any new policy initiatives or decisions. the european commission and the member states will therefore not be called upon to adopt new positions. the commission does not therefore need a negotiating mandate to participate in this exchange of views. although representatives of the commission and the member states will be present in mexico city, there will be no officially accredited european union delegation to this event. the commission's objective at the 4th water forum is to highlight and promote policies and instruments agreed by the european union with other stakeholders, such as the european union water initiative, the african, caribbean and pacific financial facility and the european union water facility, as well as many aspects of the agenda 21 action programme. in addition, the commission will provide information on the results of the innovative water technologies of the community research framework programme as well as the results of the review of integrated water resources management projects. as regards water management and the internal market, the commission may, if necessary, explain the position of the european union, namely that the rules in force in the european union are neutral as regards water ownership and water companies. the commission considers that a regular supply of drinking water is, as the rapporteur has said, a basic humanitarian need and that policies for sustainable development must address the problem of equitable and sustainable management of water resources in the interests of society as a whole. this attitude is also reflected in the european union's water initiative. at the present stage, the question remains open as to whether there is a need for an international agreement on ensuring a continuous supply of water to all parts of the world. the world water forum is not the place to start this debate.
for the ppe-de group mr president, the european union and its member states contribute a total of eur 1.4 billion a year to improving the world's water conditions, making us the largest single donor. in the light of this chapter, it is clear that the eu's message will also be heard at the world water forum starting this week and that the union's message is therefore not insignificant. the figures are stark: 3,900 children die every day from lack of clean water. one fifth of the world's population, some 1.1 billion people, suffer from a lack of clean water. more than 40 percent lack proper water and sanitation services. these figures also show that talk of a threatened water war must be taken very seriously. this is not just an unsustainable development, but a security threat. a un report released last week, "water: a shared responsibility", finds that poor governance is largely responsible for the world's poor water situation. bureaucracy and multi-level decision-making slow down the delivery of aid. decisions about who gets water, how and when are made not only at national level but also by local governments, the private sector and civil society. support is needed in particular to increase regional decision-making and cooperation in the spirit of justice. certainly it does not help that many of the countries with severe water shortages are also at the top of the list of corrupt ones. in india, for example, millions of dollars are wasted annually in political corruption in the water sector, reports hindu.com. nearly one third of those surveyed said that they had to pay a bribe to obtain water and sanitation services. i would also like to remind you that improving the regional water situation should not be separated from other development policies. recently, studies have shown that solving the water problem alone can even worsen the overall situation if population growth accelerates and leads to food shortages. so, just building a well is not enough. in all development aid, care must be taken to ensure that the overall control is such that the correction of one point does not lead to new deficiencies, and we certainly do not want that.
for the verts/ale group ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr papadimoulis for his excellent work. when we talk about the eu's capacity to respond to disasters, it is worth remembering that weather-related disasters have increased in recent decades and climate change is predicted to increase them further. reducing greenhouse gas emissions is therefore the most important way to reduce future floods and storms. since 1990, the world has experienced at least 20 major weather-related events each year. in the previous 20 years, only three years had been hit by so many weather disasters. insurance company statistics show that since 1990, the annual losses from weather disasters have more than doubled and the compensation paid for them has quadrupled. scientists say that storms and floods are not only becoming more frequent but also more intense. the wwf recently published a study showing that climate change is increasing storms in europe most strongly around the north sea, the british isles, the netherlands and france. the greatest wind speeds could increase by as much as 15 percent by the end of the century. experience has shown that in the united kingdom such an increase in wind speed can increase storm damage by 50%, and in the netherlands a 6% increase in wind speed can cause a fivefold increase in damage due to flood sensitivity. so, ladies and gentlemen, we must understand that climate protection is a key factor in reducing future weather disasters.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i started this report, the telecommunications industry looked pretty bad. most member states had not even submitted their country reports on how they have progressed in implementation. the situation is now brighter: all the country reports are in the commission's possession and almost all the member states have implemented the five directives in one way or another. however, during this period many member states have protected their monopolies for many years, which has allowed them to penetrate those member states which opened their markets in time. however, these directives are already partially obsolete. the speed with which this sector is developing means that new legislation is needed to ensure that the market functions, that development works and that employment is created. it is therefore good that the commission has decided to present the i2010 strategy, which aims at a functioning common knowledge area. we must secure investment and research funding and ensure that all europeans, including the poor, have access to this system. technology is changing faster than legislation, and so my starting point has been to make the strategy in my report as transparent as possible and to make technology neutral. it then encourages all kinds of new inventions, alternatives and competitors to enter the market. we're changing the world more through technology than politics. but then who will lead this change? we should be talking about the information society of everyday life. information and communication technologies are no longer audio-visual technologies. for example, information is passed between a car tire and a car, a refrigerator and a portable terminal, a wallet and a key ring, a home air conditioner and a navigation system. so it's digital technology that's everywhere all the time. how much wiser is a person in a smart suit? he's the source and target of the cell phone information. i wonder when he'll start being controlled like a robot. digital technology also makes life so easy for many that we begin to look for refreshment outside this environment. it has been calculated that 80 percent of our national wealth is intangible - that is, education, information, governance - and only 3 percent is made up of natural resources. it is therefore shocking that in that 80% area we are indifferently lagging behind our competitors. we are not investing, we are not researching, we are not implementing the directives properly and in the right way. only the nordic countries and a few others are an exception to this line. information and communication technology is the fastest growing industry. it's the biggest job creator in the industry. if we don't pull together, we're headed for disaster. the investors are looking for partners from china and india, for example, and the rest are the old recessionary economies, which is us here in europe. already, china and india are bringing in highly trained people for this very field, far more than europe. the other day the oecd warned europe about this change. so i think it is time to act, as the commission proposes. i have made a few amendments to my report. i have drawn up, together with my colleague, mrs riera madurell, three of them which can be regarded as such summaries, compromises. they are intended to take account of the opinion of the committee on equality and gender equality, but to shorten it somewhat. i hope you'll take this stylisation in a positive light. mr guidoni has also tabled a number of amendments, which we voted against in committee mainly because of a translation error. i'll also see that i can support them.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to emphasize in this minute's speech the need to have relevant information. if citizens do not have access to information that is essential to their lives, progress will not be sustainable. the essential information is the core, the most important point of the information society. this is now hidden around games and unrealistic entertainment, so that it is difficult to find and extract from it the essential information with which a person can govern his life and participate in democracy. so this is a question of democratic importance. i think the commissioner has given this some thought and i would like to hear his views on this, on the relevant information, now that he is greeting the high official.
i am in favour of the creation of a separate, active and independent equality institute. a strong eu policy on gender equality would be an asset. women are increasingly participating in the labour market, but men are less so. in the future, we cannot afford to neglect and fail to use the human resources that we have. the institute for gender equality could play a part in this. the lisbon strategy initially had a strong gender perspective, but this has been forgotten. equality should be given a stronger prominence and an active institution could play its part in making the eu stronger and more competitive.
for the ppe-de group mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr grech, for his good proposal and for the good cooperation which he has shown in the debate on this report. mr president, parliament's budget must be managed efficiently, responsibly and credibly. there are a few things that are required. first of all, we must stop talking about an increase of 20% per year or a ceiling. we should only talk about and implement a budget based on real needs. we must always consider our responsibility to the taxpayer. this creates the credibility that is expected of parliament. an important example of this is the information policy. we should not create large-scale projects such as our own television channels, but always ensure that the political groups are strongly involved in all the information provided to parliament. we also need to plan all communication well in advance so that we know what the costs of the projects and the staffing needs are. the best example of information is the visitor groups, and now we must hurry to ensure that the five million euros decided last year are used as quickly as possible. i would also like to mention one amendment relating to the parliament's nursery school. this may not sound like a very important political issue, but it is very important for the employers' position of this parliament how we treat workers with children. this is a question of equality in particular, and we cannot punish single parents and women with children who want to work in parliament. therefore, the nursery must be kept as close as possible to the parliament and public transport. the proposal now put forward to close the eastman farm is of course shocking and i hope that this amendment will be accepted.
for the alde group mr president, luis grech has drawn up a good report on the guidelines for the budget for the following year for headings other than the commission budget, and i should like to thank him for that. the next year's budget will also be marked by the introduction of a new system of activity-based accounting in all the institutions. as the rapporteur has said, it would be important to maintain the same budget nomenclature in all the institutions, so that both members and other interested parties would have a better chance of following the implementation of the budget. it is important to have comparable information on the costs and results of different activities. the budget for next year will be marked by the prospect of enlargement. romania and bulgaria are very likely to join next year. this implies specific requirements which must be taken into account. the emphasis should be on the organisation of language services and the recruitment of staff. this will ensure a smooth transition. the rapporteur rightly points out that parliament's budget should be kept below 20% of all eu administrative expenditure. this shows the discipline of the administration of this parliament. mr president, next year's budget is to pay very great attention to information. this is a pretty good thing in itself. however, it is necessary to require that the information activity remains relevant and appropriate. you cannot afford to pay for solutions that are too expensive, especially if they do not have the same benefits. attention should be paid to the services of visitors and groups of visitors. although there have been improvements in presentation conditions, there is room for hope. there are too few meeting rooms for visitors and too many queues. it would be good if experts from outside the european institutions could also be used more frequently on parliament's premises, thus offering visitors a more diverse picture. the real costs of the visitor groups should be better covered. more important than increasing the number of visitors would be to provide more comprehensive reimbursement of travel costs for existing visitors. as far as the budget is concerned, we would like to see the appropriations for next year included in the preliminary draft budget as soon as possible. unfortunately, it has often been the practice to increase the budgetary requirements during the actual examination in the autumn, which must be considered inappropriate. with these remarks, i would like to support the rapporteur's proposal.
for the alde group mr president, first of all i would like to thank you, ingeborg gräßle and borut pahor, the authors of this report, for the very great work you have done in preparing this report. the amendment of the financial regulation has been a major preparatory work, which is highly technical and burdensome. it's taken a lot of time and concentration. ingeborg gräßle has led many working group meetings tirelessly. the fact that parliament's views are clearly expressed is due to good preparation. thank you very much. the commission's proposal was aimed at renewing the regulation, which had been in force for three years. the aim has been to remove red tape, simplify and increase flexibility, while ensuring financial security. the background is the development of a new management culture. in 1999, after the crisis had ended and the commission had been dismissed, a group of experts proposed an organisation of eu governance that would clarify personal responsibility and at the same time simplify financial management. this legislative package included the renewal of the budgetary structure on an operational basis and the renewal of the financial regulation and the related implementing acts. it's time for a mid-term review. it can be said that the original ambitious target has been partially achieved. today we have a clearer picture of the costs and results of the different eu policies. however, the bureaucracy is still enormous and the various checks and controls are extensive. we believe that the commission's proposal to amend the financial regulation was on the right track, albeit modest in its objectives. the courage to delegate power and responsibility more clearly is still lacking, and performance-based governance is still a long way off. we think the rapporteurs have taken the right approach in trying to balance the amount of money needed with the amount of money administered. today, procedures are sometimes so complex and expensive that the action does not achieve the objectives pursued, such as cooperation with the private sector. we think that the report adopted by the committees is too cautious. we would have liked a more liberal and bold approach. we believe that parliament is still involved in what is known as micro-government. in management, the main thing is the results, not the procedures by which management is carried out. complex administrative procedures only protect weak officials from making decisions. the financial management must be based on sound decisions and personal responsibility. however, with the above remarks, we are prepared to support the report as a whole and look forward to the next reading of the implementing acts.
mr president, we have now cornered the union. the majority of member states are holding back the implementation of the lisbon strategy for purely selfish reasons, and for short-sighted reasons too. for example, in the area of investment in information and communication technology, we are falling behind the united states and japan every week. at the same time, china and india are competing with us more and more. we're completely locked in, and we're not making any progress. however, the nordic countries have maintained a high level of competitiveness and welfare state and a high knowledge base. it's happened now. i asked president barroso if it would be possible, as you are a man from the south, to tell this example to those who are still afraid of the courageous decisions we took a long time ago. it has not knocked us down, and the cold winter has not caused us to change our course. in other words, it's possible. why not?
mr president, since the problem of global warming cannot be solved by the eu alone, my oral amendment seeks to enlarge the audience by adding the words ‘and the international community’ after ‘eu and its member states’.
member of the commission. mr president, i am totally in agreement with mrs wallis’s conclusion. let us look for the best and do it together. that is the only way we can face all the clients and potential clients of those professionals that we are talking about. i should like to re-emphasise some key messages about our aspirations in this area. our initiative is about better regulation. what does that mean? it means a regulation that is balanced and no more restrictive than is strictly necessary. we want to promote, not hinder, access to justice. that is what really makes sense. opening the way to greater competition in that sector will do just that; it will result in the emergence of new and innovative types of services. that is surely a great advantage. it will benefit all by releasing the potential of the sector in terms of growth, in terms of jobs, as well as providing better-quality services and more choice for consumers. i should like to make a more detailed comment on the crucial question of price fixing, which has been put on the table as the main issue this evening. generally, i do not see how wide-scale price fixing, even for in-court work, can be objectively justified for all consumers and business users. there may be certain limited circumstances in which price regulation is justified: for example, where there is a need to provide special protection for certain disadvantaged groups, including the lower paid. that may require very limited and carefully targeted price regulation. more generally though, consumers and business users are likely to be better off with a number of offers from different service providers to compare and to choose from. in systems where legal costs are borne by the defeated party, i can, however, see some merit in having a guide for judges when they need to decide on costs. i am not saying that removing price regulation or that lower levels of regulation will automatically lead to lower prices, more choice for consumers or the creation of new jobs. as to the removal of price regulation in the uk leading to high legal costs, i am not aware of any evidence to show that price deregulation in the uk has meant problems for uk citizens in accessing legal advice and representation, or that uk legal fees have escalated disproportionately as a result. in fact the law society in the uk noted in 1999 that introducing greater competition into the area of conveyancing of property transfer led to price falls of up to 24% in the 1990s and opened the way for consumers to shop around to get the best deal. in the country i know best, research in 2002 found that the introduction of competition in conveyancing resulted in fees falling. finally, a word on quality. we all want european consumers to have access to quality legal services. that is essential if access to justice for all is to be a reality. but i do not think fixed prices are always essential for this. i am not aware of any evidence to suggest that removing fixed tariffs has led to a deterioration in the quality of legal services in member states where this has happened, though quality has a price. a fixed price does not in itself guarantee quality. the motto i will take over from mrs wallis is: ‘let us look for the best and do it together’.
member of the commission. mr president, the european commission is committed to implementing and further strengthening international obligations related to biodiversity. the millennium ecosystem assessment has underlined the need to take drastic steps if we want to avoid irreparable loss of the ecosystem services on which human wellbeing depends. if we do not pay attention to the links between economic development and biodiversity, we will also put at risk the achievement of the millennium development goals. the millennium ecosystem assessment concludes that ‘an unprecedented effort is needed to achieve the 2010 target of a significant reduction in the rate of biodiversity loss at all levels’. that global 2010 biodiversity target was adopted by the convention on biological diversity and endorsed at the johannesburg world summit on sustainable development. high-level political commitment is therefore needed to strengthen and implement the convention on biological diversity and achieve the 2010 target. the eighth conference of the parties to the un convention on biological diversity will take place during the next two weeks in curitiba, brazil. the cop-8 is preceded by the third meeting of the parties to the cartagena protocol on biosafety. those are major international environmental events and commissioner dimas will attend the ministerial segment of the eighth conference of the parties from 26 to 30 march. the environment council of last wednesday adopted conclusions setting out the eu priorities for the eighth conference of the parties. the conclusions are: first, strengthening the implementation of the convention on biological diversity and monitoring progress towards achieving the 2010 biodiversity target; secondly, making progress in implementing the programme of work on protected areas of the convention on biological diversity, and in particular on its objective to establish a global network of comprehensive, ecologically representative and effectively managed national and regional protected area systems. that should be done by 2010 for terrestrial areas and by 2012 for marine areas. that will also require progress regarding marine areas that lie beyond national jurisdiction. the convention on biological diversity should establish scientific criteria for the identification of marine areas and species in the high seas requiring most urgent protection. the third conclusion concerns making progress with the negotiations of an international regime on access and benefit-sharing. as regards the ongoing third meeting of the parties to the cartagena protocol on biosafety, our priorities are to finalise the adoption of documentation requirements for cross-border movements of gmos, to develop further guidance on risk assessment and to discuss additional measures on compliance. capacity-building issues will also be centre-stage at the third meeting of the parties. the commission is strongly committed to the inclusion of members of the european parliament as observers in community delegations negotiating multilateral agreements and has already done so on a number of occasions. the commission therefore welcomes the participation of members of the european parliament at cop-8 and believes that they can make an important contribution. within the limits imposed by the available staff resources at the cop, the commission will keep members of parliament regularly informed of developments in the negotiations, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement.
for the ppe-de group mr president, it is now 13 years since the un convention on biological diversity was signed, but the world's biodiversity is still being depleted. when the eighth conference of the parties to the convention begins next week, the world situation is that some 16 000 animal species and 60 000 plant species are threatened. we are exploiting ecosystems in ways that are not sustainable. land use that converts natural environment into economic use is the main factor contributing to the loss of biodiversity worldwide. each year, some two percent of the earth's original natural environments are transformed into farmland, forests, and the built environment. as the effects of habitat and species degradation and of hereditary diversity are usually delayed, the nature of biodiversity loss as part of global change has not been adequately addressed. ecosystems can be severely disrupted as a result of their deterioration and the free services they provide to people, such as the production of clean water and maintenance of the hydrological cycle, carbon sequestration, pollination of food crops and nutrient recycling. ecologists and economists have calculated that the free services provided by nature are worth an incredible sum of money, some $25 trillion a year, more than the combined gross national product of the earth. ecosystem services can be partially restored, for example by deforesting eroded areas, but plantation forests do not replace the diversity of natural forests. we therefore have a clear common desire to stop the degradation of nature. but where can wisdom be found for effective means? the resolution contains many worthy recommendations, but when you look at nature itself, you cannot help but be amazed at its wisdom. nature itself is infinitely productive, creative and even wasteful, but at the same time efficient and purposeful. nature provides a model of what a truly organic production economy is and what to aim for with ecological product design. nature does not provide an integrated product policy from start to finish, but everything is always a new beginning for it. we need similar wisdom, but also an open-mindedness, to overcome the difficulties ahead.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, there is broad agreement on the need to strengthen international environmental governance. climate change is the biggest of the global environmental problems, but unfortunately it is not the only one. the decline of the earth's species is already threatening the conditions in which our societies operate. we therefore need real results from the forthcoming un conference of the parties on biodiversity in the eu. the convention on biological diversity is the most comprehensive international agreement on the protection of biological diversity. it has been signed by 188 parties, including all 25 member states of the european union. in order to ensure the maximum effectiveness of the convention, it is essential that the convention is effectively implemented in the different policy areas and that the convention is compatible and coordinated with other international environmental agreements. however, the main problem for effective implementation is the lack of indicators on biodiversity. we don't know what's going on around us and how best to respond to this challenge. the commission must therefore work hard to create these indicators. the european union must be a leader in strengthening the international dimension of sustainable development. we must be prepared to agree on common binding targets to halt the degradation of nature and to safeguard its richness for our children too.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – (loud background noise in the chamber) mr president, there is an old swahili saying: ‘never stand between a river and a hippopotamus’. i feel a bit like that right now! i should like to thank mrs thyssen for an excellent report. on behalf of my group and myself, i support each and every line. i should like to make three points. firstly, i do not believe that we need a separate consumer programme for new member states. we are one big family. let us stick to that basic line. secondly, we must improve cooperation, but we do not need a new agency to do that, so i would call upon the commission not to create another agency. thirdly, let us try to activate the consumers and remember that the money we are allocating for consumer policy is really not that much: eur 40 million per year, which is 0.03% of the total budget. i should again like to congratulate mrs thyssen on her excellent work. (applause from the ppe-de group)
i would like to point out, mr president, that i voted in favour of amendment no 13 to the brok resolution, which calls for the outlawing of the racist and anti-semitic organisation grey wolves, which is responsible for the continuing terrorist attacks on christian and jewish institutions in turkey. this is a strong wording, of course, but it is unfortunately very true. this mob terrorized just like hitler's troops before hitler came to power - not so widely, but with the same audacity and partly the same methods. i think the problem deserves the attention of this house. jewish congregations and christian churches have been the targets of physical and spiritual terrorism by the very grey wolves, and the matter demands international attention. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, i would like to make three points. the first point is that i am actually playing the ‘good cop’ as opposed to the ‘bad cop’ like malcolm harbour. i think this strategy is quite good. the commission is coming forward with this at a very opportune time, when there is an atmosphere of nationalism and protectionism. as a matter of fact, unlike many of the strategies that you have provided before, mr barroso – i would call them ‘nato’: no action talk only – this one has a lot of action. however, i agree with mr harbour that you might want to come up with an alternative name. you call this document – not necessarily very aptly – ‘boosting trust through action’. perhaps you should seek some advice from an advertising agency before you come up with the next branding. it is a tough thing to do but that is not going to do it. the second point is that i agree with the focus on communication. mrs wallström, you of course play a very important part in doing that. we do not have a democratic deficit, we do not have an information deficit – we have almost too much of it – but we do have a communication deficit. the paper that you put forward on european communication is quite good. we have big problems: john bowis was talking about church organs a second ago and of course we know that it is utter rubbish. however, when respectable broadsheets like the independent come up with headlines like ‘eu forces you to recycle dildos’, then you are in trouble. it was about a directive on electrical appliances: if you take the appliance back to a store, it must be recycled. however, it is this type of communication that we really need to get rid of. the final point i wanted to make is that the eu is very often used as a scapegoat. everything that is bad comes out of the eu, everything that is good comes from the member states. therefore, i would encourage you, mrs wallström, to focus more on communication on the constitution. it is a good constitution, we need it; keep it alive until spring 2007 and let us see what happens after that.
for the gue/ngl group we are aware of the forecasts made by the big oil companies. they predict that by 2030, about 80 percent of the world's energy will be produced from fossil fuels. such forecasts are credible in the light of history, even if we make every effort to save energy, to improve energy efficiency, to promote alternative forms of energy, to use biofuels, and even if we build more nuclear power as old reactors are phased out. it is a well-known fact that the eu countries no longer have any significant oil reserves and that their own gas reserves will be exhausted within the next decade. the new green paper says that the eu's dependence on energy imports will rise to 71% by 2030. if the oil companies' predictions of primarily using fossil fuels to meet our energy needs come true, competition for their use will intensify. the eu wants to meet all the growth in energy demand with gas. the development of gas liquefaction will worsen the advantageous situation for the eu countries that the majority of the world's gas reserves are on the eurasian continent at the end of the pipeline connections. the availability and price of oil and gas are fundamentally affected by competition from china and other far eastern countries for the same natural resources, which until recently have been almost exclusively exploited by oecd countries. our group will support the commission in seeking and finding alternatives. there is no easy solution. the eu should develop good trade relations with russia if it continues to burn fossil fuels. finally, the so-called european solutions: a policy that raises the price of electricity in some countries in order to lower it in others is unacceptable. it is too expensive for some countries to show solidarity.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of a continuing energy crisis. the reason is clear: the gap between consumption and supply is so narrow that almost anything can cause prices to skyrocket. it can be caused by a storm on the other side of the ocean, and many other things. we have a good solution to this: energy cooperation within the union. however, it is hampered by a movement of non-solidarity in some member states, which has grown since the founding members. they don't allow competition in their own countries, but they buy other countries' energy companies with this lazy money. this is not the way to get anywhere. they also worked in the telecommunications industry when telemarketing was to be introduced. as a result, we again had buyers from abroad. if there is no solidarity in the european union, we can forget about the energy solutions that are being discussed here. the precondition for a common energy policy is common objectives to which our own leaders commit themselves, and not to which they give way, as is happening now. how can this be achieved? i propose that finland holds an energy summit where the heads of state agree on the way forward. this is how we can orient ourselves to a path that leads away from a constant crisis sensitivity. finland could do a good service by hosting the meeting, especially as it relates to the russian energy issue, to which many colleagues have referred here. we have a long history of that. the russian energy dialogue, which has made rather poor progress and is rather secret because the council is not very involved in it, could be immediately linked to this summit. this way we can kill two birds with one stone and increase solidarity.
mr president, i should like to touch briefly on two points. democracy and human rights are very important to us europeans, and we want to protect and safeguard them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we cannot accept that if we in the european union are really defending human rights. we need to address both the khodorovsky case and the human rights situation in russia. the second question about democracy is that we in the european union must know exactly what the euro of the european taxpayers is being used for. we cannot support terrorist organisations such as hamas, which is currently in power in the palestinian authority, but we must promote democracy and clearly renounce cooperation with terrorist organisations and stop funding them.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague mr martens for his excellent speech and for the amendments he has tabled. this line of thinking reinforces the report under consideration and supports its aim of making the economic partnership agreements a working instrument for achieving the eu's development cooperation objectives. the wto rules force us into separate economic partnership agreements, because the trade relationship based on the lomé and cotonou agreements is not reciprocal and therefore contradicts the wto enabling clause. it provides that developed countries may grant unilateral, non-reciprocal preferential treatment to only two categories of countries, either to all least developed countries or to all developing countries. as the acp region includes countries from both groups, the original benefits granted to acp countries do not correspond to the current wto rules and our transitional period for derogations will end in 2008. the economic partnership agreements have been used to find a long-term solution to bring eu-acp trade relations into line with wto rules. the proposed economic partnership agreements will make the trade relationship between the eu and the various regional groups in the acp reciprocal. under article 24 of the gatt, developed countries at different stages of development may commit themselves to a reciprocal free trade agreement provided that substantial trade liberalization takes place within a reasonable period of time. in the context of the epas, this has been understood to mean roughly 90% of trade over a period of 10-12 years. it is clear that the implementation of a reciprocal free trade agreement is a very challenging task for acp countries with varying levels of development. its introduction will mark a significant change in the eu's approach to development and trade policy with acp partners. on the other hand, we know that the favourable treatment accorded to lomé and cotonou did not stop the acp countries' market shares from falling. in view of our concern about early release of trade, it is worth asking whether there is such a thing as early release in this context. sometimes a bold leap must be made, while ensuring that the outcome of the contract negotiations leaves sufficient time for the adaptation of the acp domestic and regional markets. i personally also think it is important that everyone should have unhindered access to nature's own free services. so on world water day, i cannot fail to mention the importance of fair water management, for example. the opening up of markets has also led to the spread of poverty in developing countries in some cases and the progress of the negotiations must therefore be closely monitored. the negotiations shall be conducted in a fair manner and shall not involve any pressure on either party.
i hope, mr president, that the economic partnership agreements will be a useful instrument for eradicating poverty and that we will be able to put the declarations into practice. i am pleased to welcome the speeches on this subject this evening, particularly the excellent speech by mrs eija-riitta korhola. i cannot add anything to it in terms of content, but i will nevertheless say a few words about the report by mrs morgantini. the importance of development cooperation should not be underestimated. we, as welfare societies and european communities, want to help our less fortunate neighbours, both at home and abroad. in a way, it's the measure of our civilization. it is true that today in many member states of the european union there is a debate about what the proportion of development finance should be. for example, in finland, where i come from, we have just had a debate on this subject today and i know that the un target of 0.7% has not been reached, but we are still at about 0.4%. i hope that other european countries, including finland, will also make progress in this respect. i hope that in the european union we will find the common will and also the financial means to take care of our weaker brothers and peoples. i think, however, that we must ensure that the aid we give is in line with the principles of sustainable development. economic, social and environmental aspects must always be taken into account in eu development cooperation. it is not just money that is important, but above all partnership and helping to develop and start work. we must also be careful to promote european values such as democracy and human rights through development cooperation. it is important to take them into account in development cooperation.
in writing. mr president, this brok report is technically formal, but it is nevertheless very relevant. i voted in favour of the report and i believe that by approving this agreement we in the european parliament want to strengthen our relations with the independent state of israel, the only democratic state in the middle east. it is important that we in the european parliament support countries where european values such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law are upheld. that is why israel needs our unwavering support. i hope that this vote will also send a message that we in the european parliament respect the fundamental european values and cannot allow cooperation or negotiations with the terrorist organization hamas, which has taken power in the palestinian authority. before any negotiations can even be discussed, hamas must unequivocally 1) recognize israel's right to be a jewish state, (2) to put an end to all acts of terrorism; 3) to give up their weapons, (4) refusing to support other violent groups; and 5) respect existing international agreements between israel and the pa (oslo agreement, road map, etc.). i hope that the european union will uphold its fundamental values. it is important to support an independent and democratic israel and its right to exist.
mr president, i would like to present a calculation which explains why i voted in favour of nuclear power. if the eu's emissions are reduced by around 100 million tonnes of co2 in the first ets, the market price for emission allowances at current prices is 2.5 billion per year. as a conservative estimate, the price of electricity in the european wholesale electricity market will increase by an average of eur 10 per megawatt hour as a result of emissions trading. with an eu electricity consumption of around 3000 terawatt hours per year, the cost of emissions trading in the wholesale electricity market is around eur 30 billion per year. one very non-market alternative would be to tax electricity. i'm not suggesting that, but i'm suggesting a thought experiment. if emissions trading were replaced by an electricity tax and the earned income was allocated to real investments in reducing emissions, about 30 billion a year could be used as an investment grant to build a huge amount of capacity that would eliminate the need for fossil fuels. nuclear power is an example of a zero-emission form of energy that is not supported and certainly not needed in the electricity market, unlike many other forms of energy. but if we imagine that a $3 billion investment would achieve about 10 million tons of co2 reductions from nuclear power, then $30 billion would actually achieve that annual emission reduction by building nuclear power, with the significant difference that the electricity produced could still be sold. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, i am very much in favour of developing bioenergy to the maximum, but when we talk about promoting non-food agriculture through energy self-sufficiency, it must be said that biofuels are not cost-effective. the eu is also unable to produce enough biofuels to meet even the targets set in the biofuels directive. i think it is important to speak about things in the right way, so that we do not have the directorate-general for agriculture running the eu's energy policy without us noticing. the commission therefore considers that the aid is not necessary to achieve the objective of the common interest. or when they use more fossil energy to make them than they can produce. this is particularly true of nordic field-based energy. as a result, increasing the use of biofuels will raise both the eu's energy costs and food prices. it cannot but affect the eu's competitiveness. as regards biofuels, i would urge an honest life-cycle analysis by an independent and impartial body. (applause) i would like to thank the
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the objective of pan-european networks is a good one and necessary. the single market, however, does not solve all the problems; it also creates new ones. if the creation of a common european market in electricity is achieved, it will mean an increase in the price of electricity, for example in my home country of finland. if the price of electricity in another country falls, it will be a burden on the consumers in my country. producers of low-cost nuclear and hydroelectric power always sell electricity on the common market at the highest market price. the producer country - in our case finland - the consumer must not be penalized for the fact that our land is being used for energy production instead of fishing and transport, and that spent nuclear fuel is being buried forever in our soil. we have recent experience from the nordic common market in electricity of how producers manipulate the price of electricity so that they do not use all the production capacity. during the uk gas price spike, the pipeline to the mainland was underused. a free market is also a free market in speculation.
the resolution on the security of energy supply adopted last month, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, states that the creation of energy networks is the first priority. it's true, you know. the ten energy networks have a major role to play in the internal energy market and security of supply in the union, and security of supply is our biggest problem here. the new member states of the union must be involved quickly. the maneuvering that has taken place here is one of the woes that we have experienced in the north. perhaps the coordinators could do something about this. our recent energy crises have shown an excessive dependence on imported energy. so we need an energy policy where one neighbour can help another, but in a fair way. and he's in a hurry. i therefore hope that this matter will now be settled quickly at second reading. we must think about how europe can overcome the crisis-sensitive situation on the energy market. nothing we do now will work quickly. and consumption is increasing all the time. this is why we must create a completely new energy ethic which takes account of this situation. we have to think about where we're going to start saving. people will no longer encounter darkness or even gloom, for everywhere and always there will be light. i therefore ask the commission to draw up a modernised, new ethical austerity package to show people, industry and society the way to austerity, because it is the most sustainable way. that, while creating energy-saving technology and using renewable energy sources.
mr president, i should like to make three points. first, i welcome both the european parliament report as changed and the commission’s report on the guidelines for 2004. things are moving in the right direction and i should like to congratulate the whole team of dg competition and the commissioner, who is continuing mr monti’s work very well. we are living in a mood of economic nationalism right now, and being the competition commissioner is not necessarily the easiest job in town. the commissioner is doing a good job. my second point – and one that mr hökmark made as well – is that it is very important to take a broad approach. to my mind, competition and the internal market are married; they go hand in hand. commissioner kroes takes care of the competition part and commissioner mccreevy takes care of the internal market side. if today we were to define the four freedoms, i do not think, unfortunately, in the mood we are in, that we would get them. therefore, keep the four freedoms in mind; they are under attack, much like competition policy in general. that brings me to my final point about the four key areas dealt with in the report itself. the first is mergers: keep on fighting against the type of protectionist behaviour that you see, for example, from the spanish government in the endesa case or from the polish government in the banking sector. secondly, on state aid: continue your vigorous control, kill all the national champions you can – they are bad for consumers and taxpayers. i would urge you to read mr hökmark’s report on this issue. the third is article 81 on cartels: fight them. they are all over the place; they try to hide; tease them out; keep the consumers happy. finally, on article 82 on dominant positions: there is a sufficiently high profile case. i am not entirely sure that all is clear on that case. one can perhaps see both sides, but it is important to keep at it and, much like mr evans said, if we want a transatlantic market, let us keep it and let us watch out for american protectionism in the meantime.
mr president, the eu treaties require that decisions be taken as openly as possible and as closely as possible to the citizen. neither of these principles is being put into practice, and that is not good for the eu. it is unacceptable that the council, the eu's most important legislative body, continues to meet behind closed doors in its capacity as legislator. i can only imagine what would happen if the national parliament of a member state closed its doors when it started to legislate. i'm sure the house would be very upset. but in the eu it is still possible to legislate undemocratically. greater transparency would facilitate the european parliament's, and also the national parliaments', monitoring tasks and enhance public debate on eu issues. today it is very difficult for national parliaments and citizens to monitor and follow what their own ministers decide in the council. this is certainly not acceptable in this day and age, transparency is part of democracy. there is talk in the eu at the moment that the constitution should be ratified as soon as possible. i think it is much more important that the eu should promote transparency and that all the eu institutions should do their utmost in this matter of transparency, and first and foremost, of course, the council, so that this black hole in democracy can be filled and transparency can be a reality in legislation at eu level.
mr president, having worked for six years at the finnish representation and the finnish foreign ministry – in other words, the council – and three years in the commission as a civil servant, i do not know if i am a liability or an asset in the discussion – probably a liability, and i address that to pekka shemeikka and all of his friends from the council! i have several points. my first point is that we are dealing here with two separate but interlinked issues: access to documentation and openness in the council. if mr cashman will excuse me, i am going to focus on the latter. sometimes i have a feeling that we are a little hypocritical in the debate because, if we look at national parliaments, many committees are never open. we are much more open than national parliaments, so we must bear that in mind. my second point concerns the opening-up of council meetings. it is a long story beginning with the trumpf-piris report in 1999, then there were several council conclusions in 2001, the constitution in 2004, and a council decision in 2005. it is an ongoing story, but we are not getting it. i personally think it is a fantastic idea to open up the council meetings. we all know how ministers use the eu as a scapegoat. first, they tap each other on the shoulder in the council meeting and say: ‘good compromise’; five minutes after that they go in front of their national media and say: ‘we could not do anything’. we need to open up the council when it legislates and the sooner we do it the better. a separate point is that, having sat through hundreds of hours of council meetings, i can say they are probably the most boring meetings that you can get. openness would liven up the debate in the council, because people often come and read prepared documents. it really is boring and if we open it up it would be a bit better. my next point is about coreper. let us be honest: i do not think that coreper is ever going to open up and i do not necessarily think that is a bad thing. i would like to finish with an unrealistic proposal, which is rather like mr voggenhuber’s proposal. what we should have is the council meeting in a chamber without assistants next to them and in complete openness. that would be a truly open and transparent council, and that is what we need.
mr president, before i start, i find it quite amazing that first an irishwoman says that ireland has got absolutely nothing out of the european union, and then someone from northern ireland said that trade policy has nothing to do with democracy. it is quite astonishing. it is quite clear that ireland is the greatest success story of the european union. and yes, trade is an exclusive competence of the european communities, but basically member states sit around a table, make a decision by qualified majority, and give the commission a mandate to negotiate. of course, if you wanted a federation, perhaps you would do things a bit differently, but i have not heard anything of that sort. anyway, i am sorry, i could not hold myself back. i have several points. first, i would like to welcome the report, which i have to do because mr papastamkos is sitting in front of me and if i do not he would turn around and punch me in the face! i think it raises key issues. i also think that globalisation is the best thing that has happened to us over the past 150 years. it has raised global welfare; hundreds of millions of people have improved their living conditions. our great challenge, within the context of the wto, is how to find a key role for the european union and how to get everyone on board. secondly, if doha failed, we would probably survive in the short term; after all, we are a global trading power – over 20% of world trade comes from us, over 20% comes from the united states. we could have some bilateral trade agreements with other parts of the world. but in the long term i do not think it would work out. in the long term protectionism works like an ostrich; you are trying to hide from reality in many ways. thirdly, and this is for mrs wallström – and through her for mr mandelson – i agree with those who say that we have already given many concessions, especially on agriculture. i think the commission is doing a great job, but the reality is that, at the end of the day, we will most probably have to make a few more concessions. finally, i believe that we need to finish these negotiations in 2006, because after that we are not going to have the united states on board.
i would like to say a few words, mr president, about the hammerstein mintz report and my voting behaviour. i am for openness, but i am also for a certain realism. it is obvious that the council meetings must be open, but in paragraphs 14 and 15 this parliament voted in favour of open coreper, that is to say, the meetings of the permanent representatives, the eu ambassadors, and open meetings of the conciliation committee. we can certainly make this request, but i would assume that the council would then also have the right to demand that all our group meetings, our preparatory meetings and all the meetings of the presidency be open. so i am in favour of transparency in the council, but i do not think it is realistic to demand transparency from coreper.
madam president, i cannot help it, but when i see the name winkler up there, i immediately think about henry winkler: remember the guy who was fonzie in happy days? it is good to have an austrian minister as fonzie, giving the thumbs up to better regulation! we have three linked issues in this plenary session. the first, which we dealt with yesterday, was to do with transparency and the openness of the council; the second is this debate on better regulation and legislation, and the last one we have this evening is on citizenship. i support all those initiatives; i think they are great; i think the work that the secretary-general is doing in the commission under mr ponzano is extremely good and i would like to recommend all four reports that have been put on the table today. having said that and given that we are talking about better regulation, when i started going through the reports, i got a bit uneasy. i will just read you the language. i think there is a communication problem here. mrs frassoni drew up a great report, but paragraph 18, ‘notes that the solvit network has proved its effectiveness in the internal market as a complementary non-judicial mechanism which has increased voluntary cooperation among member states ...’. it is all true, but if you are sitting up there trying to listen to this, you are not necessarily going to understand what it means. mr doorn, on better lawmaking, at paragraph 5, ‘is of the opinion that the lamfalussy procedure is a useful mechanism; regards the convergence of supervisory practices as crucial; welcomes the work of the level 3 committees in this respect and supports the call for an adequate toolbox;’ – great. then, the mccarthy report – which i think is the clearest one – states in paragraph 6, ‘requests that the commission carry out both ex-ante and ex-post impact assessments on legislation to assist in identifying whether key policy objectives have been met ...’, and the gargani report has exactly the same. what i am trying to say is that we need better regulation, better lawmaking, but it is to do with simplification and us understanding what we are deciding on and people understanding what we are trying to decide on. that is what better regulation is all about; therefore, we need to use better language. i cannot imagine how that sounded through the finnish interpretation! (laughter and applause)
the challenges faced by the outermost regions of the union are very similar to those challenges which are facing the northernmost regions of the eu. would you say that the balance between eu support to the outermost regions and eu support to the northernmost regions is now met in the proposals for cohesion? in addition, could you briefly outline what the cofinancing rates and special targeted measures are for the northernmost regions of the european union, especially the northern parts of finland and sweden?
has the introduction of the longer-term presidency for the eurozone had any practical implications for your work as guardian of the treaties and guardian of the stability and growth pact? what are the practical effects of the longer-term presidency of the eurozone?
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to begin the presentation of this report by thanking all those who have taken part in this work. this came to our committee about a year ago, the proposal was presented to parliament on 6 april 2005 and our committee started to deal with it at the beginning of may. the committee on budgets, where neena gill has done a good job, and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, where giusto catania has also done a good job, have also subsequently delivered their opinions on this. the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities has also drawn up an opinion on this subject, drawn up by mrs maria da assunção esteves. i would like to thank all of them for their good and expert testimony. i can say that we have done a lot of work this year, and i also thank all the shadow rapporteurs and the strong women and men on the committee who have helped me with this and all the others who have been involved. we are now in a situation where we are supposed to vote on this tomorrow, and i thought i would say a few words about this report. this is a four-part programme, the first of which is a europe of active citizens, with a friendly attitude, which has received a great deal of positive publicity and feedback through the programme which is already in existence. citizens' projects are also part of this first action. the second action is active civil society in europe. it will provide structured support to eu policy research organisations and european-level ngos, and support to projects initiated by ngos. this is also a very important action. the third action is a common europe: events, studies, information and communication with a high profile. the fourth action is the preservation of active memory heritage throughout europe. the aim of this programme was specifically to reach out to those europeans who, for one reason or another, have not yet been able to participate in a european programme. as we know, there are many people today who, for whatever reason, have felt very alien to the european question, and there has even been a trend towards exclusion in europe. through this programme we have tried to find these people, to create a programme suited to them, so that they too can experience what it is to work together, what european identity is and how we can strengthen a common european identity. the recent events in the european elections and the results of the referendums show that far too few people are interested in the common good. as we know, it is important to strengthen the european identity, it is important to strengthen the common action of the peoples of europe and thus to create opportunities for everyone to participate. in short, this programme has been based on the fact that we have not wanted to make an elitist programme but one which is suitable for all europeans. it is not just the commission's intention to make a new programme, but also the commission's intention to make a new programme, which is a very important one, and to make a new programme, which is a very important one, and to make a new programme, which is a very important one. it now appears that although the committee was very unanimous - only two abstained and the others voted in favour of this programme - there are still some amendments to be tabled for tomorrow's sitting. they're mostly about this active memory inheritance, action four. in addition, they also apply to the organizations already mentioned in this programme. as regards these organizations, i would like to say the following: i hope that as part of this active memory we will stick to the original purpose of this programme, which was to support the preservation of the memory of the nazi and stalinist regimes, because the impact of these totalitarian regimes was all over europe and not just in one country. i would like to thank in particular marianne mikko, who very strongly brought out this stalinist point of view and wanted it to be included. i have to say that i hope that we will stick to our position. i also hope that the additions made by the socialists, the epp and the greens to these new organisations - maisons de l'europe, the berlin institute for european politics and the european council on refugees and exiles - can be accepted as part of this programme. unfortunately, time is short and i've exceeded my time, so i can't talk any more about this, but thank you for all your support. i hope that the vote will go as we in the committee have hoped. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, i have two remarks, one is on the report and the other is of a general nature. firstly, i should like to congratulate my friend mr takkula on his report. it is his first report, it is a big report and he has done an excellent job in raising all the key issues. i support every bit of it. i also support all the wording on stalin and hitler. i must admit that, although i am not a member of the committee, i fully support what mrs pack said. it is quite amazing that the chairman of the committee, mr sifunakis, takes a completely opposite view to what has been decided in the committee, but so be it. if i did not know mr takkula well, having read this report, i might even think that he is a federalist, but perhaps not this time round. my more general remark is really about european citizenship and national citizenship. some people seem to think that we are somehow trying to create a european prototype, but i disagree. i am a federalist myself, but i think that identity is first local, then national and after that european. i have lived in brussels for seven years. to be quite honest, when i came to brussels, i had a few prejudices about nationalities. for example: finns do not talk at all; every german has the same sense of humour as our president in the chair today; every frenchman always speaks through three points; no italian has ever drawn an operative conclusion. that was the feeling i had when i came to brussels. those are the national prototypes that we have. to be quite honest, after seven years i think that my prejudices have only strengthened – in a very positive way, but, nevertheless strengthened. so we are certainly not creating any kind of a prototype european. it seems to me that the only time that we can really feel european is, for instance, through sport: the ryder cup in golf is a great example, and eurovision is something that brings us together. however, all in all, i think this report is great because it gives us four pieces of action. i can support each and every one of them. it has no propaganda in it, so i hope the commission takes it seriously and takes on board all the changes that mr takkula has proposed.
mr president, i should like to thank mr doyle for his role as parliament's mediator in this demanding package of regulations and directives. the regulation and the directive under discussion are both important steps in our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. i know from experience that the drawing up of a conciliation procedure is a demanding task and requires a great deal of effort on the part of the rapporteur. fluorinated greenhouse gases are one example of how difficult it is to fix environmental problems. when you solve one problem, you can easily replace it with another. the switch to the use of hfcs in cooling systems, aerosols and other applications has significantly reduced the use of ozone-depleting hfcs. the montreal protocol sought to eliminate cfcs, since these gases are harmful to stratospheric ozone. that was good, but the ozone depletors were replaced by powerful greenhouse gases. they have a global warming potential of 100 or even more than 1,000 times that of carbon dioxide, and the time taken for the gases to decompose in the atmosphere can be very long. fluorinated gases account for at least 5% of the greenhouse effect. the threat of climate change therefore requires a limitation of the use of hydrofluorocarbons. the text of the regulation now adopted by the conciliation committee encourages the continuous development of alternative technologies and the uptake of existing technologies, while allowing for sustainable approaches to achieve the objective. i hope that we are wiser now and better able to anticipate the possible dangers of alternatives. one of the main issues raised by the regulation in question was its legal basis. i hope that the two legal bases now chosen will nevertheless prove to be a workable compromise and will not create duplications. in my own time i voted for one legal basis, article 95, but with the highest standards. i have always wondered why the environment is always automatically considered more environmentally friendly and the internal market is labelled as an industrial interest. the best environmental interest would be to combine a harmonised internal market with ambitious objectives. only in this way will we be able to give our industrial production a real incentive to compete on a level playing field and in an environmentally friendly way.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to say a few words to the house in brief, because i am very surprised by the behaviour of the chairman of our committee in emailing everyone last night about the vote on my report. the report was adopted unanimously in committee, no one voted against it, and i think that such an attack by the president on his own committee is at least extraordinary, i would even say exceptional. i therefore hope that parliament will understand what is at stake and will not agree with the two amendments tabled by the president. it would be a grave mistake for parliament to accept his amendments nos 62 and 63, because they would undermine the active memory inherited from this programme. i think that this approach, mr president, is offensive to our committee. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, the result of the israeli elections gave the answer of the people in israel. all knesset parties are committed to the peace process and the majority says yes to the convergence plan proposed by mr olmert, which sets out a two-state solution. regarding the middle east peace process, i would like to say that looking at the palestinian elections we must remember that democracy is not just about a free ballot box and not simply about the process. we cannot define and approve ‘democracy’ as being a ‘terrorist government that was democratically elected’, as in the palestinian case. democracy is about eu values of peace and respect, not about wanting your neighbour to disappear from the world’s map as mr al-zahar, the new palestinian foreign minister, put it this week. he said: ‘i dream of hanging up a huge map of the world which does not show israel on it’. the eu must demand that the pa government renounces violence, recognises the state of israel and the relevant agreements and commits to the roadmap, otherwise the eu should not legitimise hamas in any way. now that it has no partner on the palestinian side, israel needs all our support to continue its commitment to the peace process.
are there many, if any, member states which would say in the council that they oppose more stringent condemnation of the guantánamo camp? which member states oppose taking more concrete action on the issue?
the commission has proposed the nomination of six coordinators for six out of the thirty projects. in seems that in an orwellian way, these are the more equal animals among the ten-t projects. when is the commission going to put forward the second phase for the next most privileged priority projects? when are you going to do it in the council?
mr president, the theme of the world health day to be celebrated the day after tomorrow is health workers. this year's theme is very timely as we face the threat of a global pandemic. the problems of access to health personnel and working conditions affect both developing and developed countries. paying attention to the health-care workers' position is a good way to get to the root of health problems and to try to prevent them. investing in prevention is always the better option for the population and also for the economy. it is sensible to invest resources in building a lifestyle that supports the health of citizens, rather than just in remedial work. we need the political will to recognize the needs of health care workers and respond to them. trained doctors and nurses save lives. without their professional skills being valued and supported, the un millennium development goals, for example, will not be met. this appreciation must also be reflected in pay and working conditions. the skills of healthcare professionals are put to a particular test in the face of new health threats such as avian influenza. healthcare professionals must, in all circumstances, be able to be sure that their working conditions do not expose them unnecessarily to infections. the potential global pandemic also poses difficult ethical questions for staff. even if the starting point is that everyone is vaccinated and those who need it receive the medicine, there may be a situation where, for example, part of the vaccine batch is missing. the prioritization of healthcare requires a thorough ethical reflection. when pandemics threaten, developing countries are particularly vulnerable, with malaria and hiv already wreaking havoc. i strongly support the call in the resolution for a better focus on development cooperation, on what is known as human and social development.
mr president, there are many points in the acp delegation's report which, as a member, deserve our positive attention. so i am not talking so much about the situation in the acp countries as about the work of the delegation. first of all, i would like to thank the bureau for the decision to authorize the holding of a joint acp-eu parliamentary assembly in edinburgh. the meeting was a success and the british presidency and the city of edinburgh deserve credit for the good arrangements. i hope that it will be possible to hold a meeting of representatives in the presidency in the future, because the local nature of the meetings brings real added value, as does the fact that the meetings alternate between the eu and the acp countries. it was also a great achievement that acp and eu representatives were able to attend the informal meeting of the development cooperation council in october, organised by the uk presidency. i hope that this practice will continue when my own country, finland, takes over the presidency in july. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly plays an important role in the implementation of the political dialogue provided for in article 8 of the cotonou agreement. the aim is to strengthen democracy, good governance and human rights. it is a bit unfortunate that our meetings always coincide with committee week. in my case, it has meant that i have never been able to attend a meeting continuously. i don't know if the other members feel the same way, but i think it would be easier to disengage during group meeting week. this is an option that might be worth testing. i also welcome the establishment of standing committees. they have enabled better cooperation between the european parliament and acp members in good time. i have seen the system work after i myself have written a report.
mr president, paragraph 2 of the resolution was put to the vote by a point. i had no problem in approving and supporting the first part, but the second part was problematic and i voted against it. i think the elections in belarus were not free, but the result was not falsified. but the previous us presidential elections, not the last one, but the one before that, were free, but the result was rigged. parliament did not take any position on this. i hope that parliament will also take a stand on the presidential elections in the oil-rich countries - kazakhstan, uzbekistan, turkmenistan, azerbaijan - and other countries which are not free and where the result is rigged.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – mr president, we could not have debated the budgetary discharge report at a better time than today. the recent echoes we have heard relating to the purchase of the two different office buildings in strasbourg show that more information on the sub-letting of these buildings by the city of strasbourg is definitely needed. it appears that the european parliament might have been considerably overcharged by the city of strasbourg, which has rented the buildings from a property fund. yearly, this overcharging might have yielded eur 2.7 million. this might have been going on for 25 years. i think it is scandalous: not only the subject matter, but the fact that this information has been hidden from us in parliament until now. the european parliament should conduct a thorough inquiry to find out as soon as possible if the allegations of overcharging by the city of strasbourg are true. if this turns out to be the case, the european parliament should immediately consider taking appropriate legal action against the city of strasbourg. moreover, i have been surprised to hear that the mayor of strasbourg has refused to answer the questions of the vice-president of this house on this matter. i wonder how the communication policy of the city of strasbourg – usually so prompt, cautious and even pampering towards meps – changed so suddenly. on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, i would like to say that, in general, the budget discharge reports do not give enough relevant information as to how the budget has succeeded in promoting equal opportunities for women in the enlarged union, nor do they provide the possibility of assessing the impact of the budget from a gender perspective, despite the request of this house on gender budgeting. in the future, relevant information on gender mainstreaming policies should be delivered by the commission and this information should be included in the budget discharge reports. we have demanded it so many times; i think it is time for the commission to do this.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i have three points. my first point is that the timing of this debate is a disgrace: it was supposed to start at 6 p.m. and it is now 9.30 p.m. it is going to go on all evening. it is one of the most important issues that we have. are we trying to hide something from the public? my second point is that i am the shadow rapporteur on the mulder report on discharge for the commission. i should like to congratulate my colleague and friend, mr mulder, on an excellent report and i would like to point out that 80% of money misuse is still happening in the member states. the commission is doing an excellent job. it is not more control we need, but better control. my third and final point concerns discharge for the european parliament. i have four points on that. firstly, it is very important that at this stage we stick to the facts. we should start researching to see what actually happened. it is very easy for all of us to wonder whether strasbourg is the right seat or not. i do not think that is the issue right now. let us look at what really happened. secondly, there are two issues at stake here: we need to look at what the administration of the european parliament has done in the past 25 years, and we need to look at what the city of strasbourg has done. it certainly looks as if it has violated the spirit of the agreement we have with the city itself. thirdly, we need more information. i agree with mr ferber, the rapporteur on this issue, who said recently that the press release from strasbourg – to which mrs kauppi referred – is absolutely pathetic. they need to give a lot more information or they need to change their whole public relations department. it gives us no information about what actually happened. finally, we should vote against discharge for the european parliament and begin the investigation.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, i will continue the debate on the discharge of parliament. the parliament's budget for 2004 was eur 1 231 million. if parliament had only one language and only one seat, 60% of this expenditure would have been saved. the cost of organising the plenary sessions of the european parliament in strasbourg is over eur 200 million. of this, some eur 10 million has been spent on the lease of the salvador de madariaga and winston churchill buildings. parliament is responsible for 20% of all eu administrative expenditure. it's so much money that it's not easy to spend it all. at the end of last year, the budget of parliament had a surplus of eur 85 million. it was a quick idea to use it for something. the bureau has decided to propose the purchase of the madariaga and churchill buildings. the buildings were owned by the dutch pension fund sci erasme or its subsidiary. however, the parliament paid the rent to the city of strasbourg. the negotiations for the acquisition revealed that the city had received more from parliament for a quarter of a century than it had paid to erasmus. the city of strasbourg thus financed the parliament by having its premises in the city. the city has refused to disclose the amount of the bail. this is intolerable. our group supports a thorough and complete investigation of this matter. to that end, we are prepared to reject the ferber report and refer it back to committee for further consideration. the same approach should be followed with regard to the committee of the regions' discharge report prepared by mr lundgren, given the new uncertainties that have emerged.
mr president, what we have here in front of us is a dual challenge. first, we need to work towards a genuine single market for investment products. second, we have to make the european investment fund industry more globally competitive. to this end, there are highly useful recommendations in mr klinz’s report. the possible introduction of a harmonised, simplified prospectus across the eu, which would make it possible for investors to compare products easily, is one worth mentioning. as you have already mentioned, commissioner, unified provisions on eligibility of assets is another. simplified notification procedures; enhanced cooperation between regulators upon receipt of a notification in the country of origin; mutual recognition of product passports: the list goes on and on. asset management is a key tool for europe to be able to fund its soon-to-be-explosive pensions situation. the ongoing industry work towards integration, consolidation and dismantling the barriers to cross-border business should be backed up by effective and coherent action by national regulators. i strongly support the line taken in mr klinz’s report in favour of greater industry initiatives for creating an operational and consistent european model of fund management, to be backed up by regulatory convergence when necessary. using existing powers under eu competition policy, rather than starting from scratch with a whole new regulatory framework, would seem to be a better way to police the market environment, which currently suffers from differences in national interpretations of key provisions of the ucits directive. a final word about the directive on markets in financial instruments: mifid regulates an important part of asset management business, namely the acceptance and execution of orders in connection with undertakings of collective investments. best execution requirements for asset management are distinct from those of the brokers, and this should be recognised in the commission’s implementing measures currently under review by the european parliament and the european securities committee.
for the alde group. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur and colleagues! like the previous speakers, i would also like to stress the importance of regional and national linguistic minorities in this context. each language a person learns gives him access to a larger cultural space. it is a great privilege for finns to be able to read the newspapers of the nordic countries, which is now the case thanks to the swedish language courses we have in finland. with knowledge only of the major languages, these newspapers would remain unreadable to us. in finland, swedish is both a native language and a neighbouring language. the major languages are and always will be important, and it is good that many people know them. however, the eu should not have as its strategy to concentrate on, for example, the five largest languages, or only the official languages of the union. in the nordic and baltic sea regions, it is good to know, for example, swedish, russian or finnish. lack of knowledge of these languages both alienates people and weakens economic conditions. the baltic sea region is currently the fastest growing region in the eu. respect for the speakers of a minority or regional language is also of fundamental importance for the stability of europe. for those of us who live in multilingual societies, it is natural that the eu's approach to multilingualism cannot be limited to a few languages. i therefore strongly support karin resetarit's proposal to include the languages of neighbouring countries, regional languages and minority languages in the strategy. there are also languages outside the union which are important. 46 million eu citizens speak a language other than the majority language of their country as their mother tongue. that's a full 10% of the eu population. at the same time, we can see that where there are several languages spoken, there is often a better economic situation. a benevolent attitude to diversity also brings economic benefits. there are no shortcuts. europe is multicultural and multilingual. it is good to be able to stick together, and to do that we must be able to feel equal, both between countries and within countries. traditionally, linguistic and regional minorities have been strong european speakers and willing to learn other languages. many of them are very crowded today. turning its back on a large part of its population is neither cosmopolitan nor in the union's interest. respect for and recognition of national linguistic and regional minorities is also important for strengthening and consolidating the public's trust in the european union. all too often, the majority population in the member states of the union today wishes to forget their regional and national linguistic minorities.
mr president, i wish briefly to take issue with what mrs krupa – who unfortunately has now left the chamber – said a minute ago. she made a statement comparing the european union to the soviet union. i must say that it is not a fair comparison. i shall just relate one little anecdote. mr prodi, the previous president of the commission, went to estonia before it joined the european union. he was asked why estonia should join the european union, since it was just like the soviet union. he thought for a while and said that it was a valid point, but he could not exactly remember when estonia applied for membership of the soviet union. i think mrs krupa should always keep that in mind when she thinks about poland’s role in the european union: it is there because membership is in its interests and came about through a democratic process.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i am actually speaking on behalf of your countryman, mr protasiewicz. firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent job. the work we did in the committee on constitutional affairs went very smoothly and most of the committee stands behind the report. i would like to make three points. the first point is that our group welcomes the commission’s initiative of withdrawing 68 pieces of legislation. the original idea of european integration was to bring down walls, not to create them, and the commission in its analysis and screening did an excellent job. the second point, however, is that when we deal with this issue we have to be very careful that we do not start changing the commission’s exclusive right of initiative. the idea of a new commission withdrawing initiatives or announcing which initiatives it will withdraw as soon as it comes into office is a good one, and to a certain extent we could say that the commission did that this time around, which should be welcomed. my third and final point is that we want increased consultation between the european parliament and the council as well, but it is very important to retain and keep the institutional balance pretty much as it stands. so we want closer involvement, but maintenance of the institutional balance when we talk about screening of legislation in general. i have always considered myself to be a bit of an institutional nerd, but i can guarantee that the next speaker, mr corbett, is even more of one!
mr president, i have three points. firstly, i agree with mr kirkhope that the constitution is alive and kicking and we should be happy about it. last week was great: we had the interparliamentary forum, the commission produced a paper, estonia ratified the constitution, finland gave a clear signal that it would ratify and mrs merkel gave a great speech. mr farage is no longer here, but it was interesting to see that his message to the ‘cricket people’ was that he wants france and the netherlands to decide for everyone else how the constitution should be dealt with. it is an interesting message to give to the british people. my second point, echoing what mr méndez de vigo said, is that we have five phases in this debate. the first phase was reflection, not siesta, as some would have liked to say. now we are moving to the second phase, which is analysis. the austrian presidency needs to move the reflection phase on into a period of analysis and take on board mr méndez de vigo’s excellent idea that there should be a study on the cost of not having a constitution. thirdly there will be a proposal phase and, fourthly, a negotiation phase. finally, much like the commissioner said, we will hopefully have a ratification phase in 2009. my final point concerns the blame game. it seems to me, from listening to parliament’s debate and the public debate, that we are playing a blame game. it appears that the member states are blaming the european parliament and the commission for everything that goes wrong. the commission has a tendency to blame the member states, and the european parliament blames both the commission and the member states. we need to get out of this blame game and start looking at this more as a team. the idea of a joint declaration, in which the european parliament also participates, is a good one. may i just point out that we are talking about the future of the union, in preparation for the european council, and only one group leader is present in this chamber: mr poettering. mr schulz is no longer here, but he mentioned meetings of the council of ministers, in which each of the 25 member states is given three minutes to speak, which makes a total of 75 minutes. if you take that example and apply it to our chamber, with two minutes for each of the 732 meps, the total is 1 464 minutes. the debates in the council are not necessarily sexy, but we could also make improvements in this area. my final point is directed at the commissioner. you have just said that it is great that some member states are ratifying the treaty. five have done so since the negative referendum results and a sixth ratification is on its way. i urge you to tell your prime minister, mr persson, that it would be great if sweden ratified it as well. this is not a statement in view of the ice hockey world championship. it is a simple statement that sweden should do it too. (applause)
your honor, officers michaelis and proske allege that our colleague tobias pflüger used the term "asshole" to describe them during the demonstration in munich. member pflüger says that this word is not part of his vocabulary at all. i would therefore like to say that mr michaelis and mr proske are real assholes, arschköpfe, in claiming that our colleague said this. that is why i voted against this report.
as you can see, getting rid of roaming charges is one of the commission’s most popular initiatives. i would like to return to the first question from mrs badia i cutchet. she asked about the legal basis of this regulation. what will the legal basis be and how will you cooperate with dg competition on this initiative?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, on behalf of my group i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr böge, for his work on the matter at hand. it is not his fault that the council has pulled the commission and parliament under the carpet and damaged the political credibility of these institutions. the commission made the biggest error in its original proposal for economic guidelines. it misjudged the council's balance of power and created over-ridden expectations. the report by parliament's temporary committee was drawn up on the basis of these expectations. many members found it difficult to be satisfied with böge's realism at the time. when the council cut the commission's proposal, the commission continued to create exaggerated expectations. president barroso promotes the commission's position on the basis of full error assessments. he has lost face in the process, as has the whole parliament. the decision by parliament to reject the council conclusions of december 2005 provided a good basis for further negotiations. the council, however, pointed out to the commission and parliament that eu money comes from the member states. in practice, the commission and parliament can only participate in the decision-making process on eu expenditure, redistributing funds within the framework set by the council. the transfer of the problems to the mid-term review of the economic guidelines at the end of 2009 does not increase parliament's power over eu budgetary matters. the revenue side failed to remove the unjustified uk special rebate. on the expenditure side, the council's commitment to 1% of payment appropriations removed the basis for a budget which could have created european added value if the community budget had been greater than the sum of the member states' contributions. my group would have liked a more constructive budgetary framework for the years 2007 to 2013. we did not get that and we will vote against the adoption of the böge report. we did not give the financial framework the flexibility that would have been necessary for sound management. instead, the member states are putting more money into the budget for the militarization of the eu. the council has skillfully exploited the situation where the federalists in the commission and parliament cannot withstand a new crisis at eu level.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr böge, for the very good work he has done in creating the financial framework. he did his work under difficult circumstances, but enjoyed the undivided confidence of parliament throughout. the financial framework is low, the contribution to the gnp is only 1%, and this is reflected in the content of the framework. it is regrettable that the uk's annual membership fee of five and a half billion euros could not be reimbursed. i think we should all take responsibility for eu funding. the financial frameworks initially focused on improving competitiveness. the commission set an ambitious target of improving the competitiveness of european industry and business by promoting research and development and strengthening education systems. the funds for these projects were to be tripled over seven years. the aim was to improve employment. however, the council cut these funds by 40%, and this ambitious target was not achieved, which was the biggest failure in these negotiations on the financial framework. the good news is that the construction project has been funded. the new member states will receive a net annual contribution of some eur 24 billion from the old member states to support their reconstruction. this is the way to restore europe as a united and strong europe. the time available for consolidating the financial programmes must now be used quickly. otherwise, the unpaid commitments will become unbearable in the first few years.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr böge, for his excellent work, including my own. it has been rightly said that none of us could have handled this matter better in extremely difficult negotiations. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement. the first of these is the flexibility instrument. it is an important instrument because responding to humanitarian situations is exactly what citizens expect from the eu. the second important point is the clause on the revision of the financial perspective, which is an indispensable instrument for parliament's powers. i must express my disappointment with the council's original agreement and especially with the christmas funds. they do not add any value to the eu, and the focus should have been on education and innovation. the galileo and erasmus programmes would have deserved better treatment and additional funding. however, it is important that a consensus has been reached and that the citizens can be shown that the new eu of 25 countries is capable of making decisions even in difficult circumstances. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we all vote in favour of the böge report. once again, i would like to thank rapporteur boge for her excellent work.
mr president, the emphasis on human rights has been a special feature of pan-european organisations throughout the post-second world war period. the importance of human rights has not diminished over the years, but on the contrary has increased. at a time of increased trade between the eu and third countries and eu involvement in counter-terrorism, it is important to remember that human rights are not trivial or irrelevant. human rights are not subject to terrorism or to the free flow of trade. the eu can have a major impact on human rights if it speaks with one voice. the eu has not always succeeded in doing so, but sometimes it has. at the moment, one would hope that the eu could focus more on eradicating hunger and poverty. hunger and poverty are among the worst human rights violations in the world today. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr howit, for his very good cooperation and for the fact that the amendments tabled by many of us have been taken into account. i also noted with pleasure that the rapporteur specifically stressed the importance of the fact that the report is produced in cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission. only in this way can ngos and views from different political groups be heard.
deputy rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection mr president, mr szent-ivànyi is the rapporteur for the report on the preaccession instrument, but he is not here because he has been sent by a commissioner to monitor the elections in fiji from afar. the rapporteur, mr szent-ivànyi, sends his greetings and thanks to the commissioner for his speech, which is fully in line with the agreement reached on the subject. the regulations under discussion are a major restructuring of the financing of external relations. the former financial instruments will be combined and the decision-making process will be renewed. the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument will replace the existing tacis and meda systems. cross-border cooperation will be implemented through a new arrangement allowing for the flexible combination of external financing through the neighbourhood and partnership instrument and funding from the european regional development fund for the territory of the member states. crossborder cooperation has been very difficult to date, given the very different decision-making systems of tacis and the union's internal regional development funding. the challenge of harmonising and linking administrative procedures is a demanding one. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the following areas: for all financial instruments, a decision-making system is needed to safeguard parliament's influence even after the adoption of regulations. the negotiations on this issue have made welcome progress. the liberal group is pleased that the other institutions have finally agreed to parliament's demand for the creation of a special instrument for human rights and democracy. the instruments for external relations form a whole, all the parts of which must be agreed between the council, the commission and parliament. this requires flexibility on the part of all parties, including the european parliament. the changes to the financing arrangements are so significant that problems in applying them in practice are to be expected. all the institutions must be prepared to make any necessary changes to the regulations now being adopted during the financial period. i have been the shadow rapporteur for the liberal group on the enpi regulation and i would like to thank mr szymańsk for his good cooperation. i am particularly pleased that the regulation also includes the northern dimension and cooperation with our northern neighbours.
mr president, the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument is very much needed. the european parliament has long called for facilitating cooperation between the eu and its neighbours. in practice, the fact that the eu's own interreg programmes and those implemented in the neighbouring region have been completely separate and that joint projects could not be carried out on both sides of the border has been very problematic. although we are now on the verge of the long-awaited one-stop-shop principle for neighbourhood and partnership policy, the implementation of the programme will be challenging. it is important to remember that the external borders are different. regional allocation of resources must take account of the needs of the policy alongside the population base.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, i thank both the council and the commissioner for allowing parliament to continue to be involved in these matters. this energy community treaty, signed in october, integrates nine countries of south-eastern europe into our energy market. it's historic in at least two ways. firstly, it is a precedent, since it extends for the first time the legislation on the internal market in electricity and gas to nine non-eu countries. secondly, it is the first multilateral agreement covering the whole of south-eastern europe since the break-up of the former yugoslavia. it requires a lot of cooperation and thus stabilizes the region. the establishment of an energy community is a sensible and justified project in many ways. the energy sector in the balkans is underdeveloped, still suffering from the consequences of a decade-old war, with frequent outages and no safe source of energy, the environment suffering from old power stations and their emissions, and a lack of investment and competition. the energy community treaty aims to develop energy infrastructure through loans from financial institutions. it is estimated that the electricity sector will require some 25-30 billion in investment over 10 years. the fact is that a functioning and reliable energy system also attracts investors, which improves the economic situation of the region, improves general stability and reduces migration. it is also important for the union to improve energy security - we are talking about this here - and to reduce dependence on individual suppliers. the balkans are also an important transit route for energy from the caspian region to the middle east. there are also concerns. although energy in south-east europe is currently underpriced, a large proportion of the population cannot afford to buy electricity. when the energy sector is market-based, it is capitalised, so prices will inevitably rise. the parties should therefore ensure that public service obligations are met and that prices are reasonable so that the poor can afford electricity and gas. parliament called on the parties to sign a legally binding protocol. this binding is important. the internal market must apply standards in areas such as working conditions and social equality, especially in the hugely profitable energy sector.
for the alde group mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr ellis, for a well-constructed report on the commission's annual strategy. it is a good reflection of the priorities of parliament which we have already defended in the financial framework negotiations. my group wishes to emphasize in particular the importance of smooth transport for the functioning of the internal market and has therefore tabled two amendments. the eu's biggest challenge is to reduce unemployment. that is why programmes to promote growth and employment are of paramount importance. these are the seventh framework programme for research and development and the programme for smes to strengthen competitiveness and innovation. i'd like to see them finished as soon as possible. structural and cohesion policy are the major challenges of the eu's next programming period. the financial framework has set aside considerable sums for these, especially for the new member states. it is important that these funds be mobilised. that is why programmes must be prepared quickly and efficiently. they should be adopted at the latest by the end of next year. otherwise, the funds allocated will not be used, as in the first years of the agenda 2000 programme. it delayed the implementation of projects and at the same time created a considerable backlog of outstanding commitments, which has still not been dismantled. parliament must prepare itself in time for the review of the multiannual financial framework and the intermediate stage of the agricultural reform. in this context, the compulsory co-financing of direct payments to farmers must be clearly identified. it would reduce eu budget expenditure, correct the disparities in net contributions between member states, increase member states' responsibility for the use of funds and better protect farmers' livelihoods within the current financial ceiling. our group supports this. with these comments, we are ready to support the report.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, our group has shown its dissatisfaction with the financial framework for 2007-2013 by voting today in the plenary against the adoption of the böge report. the main reason was the low level of appropriations compared to the needs of our group to develop positive european programmes. the new financial frameworks are also considered to be regressive in the ellis report. we want more cohesion, more science and research, more concern for the environment, more sociality. our group, on the other hand, does not feel the need to militarize the eu's foreign and security policy. the council also secured its financing in the new interinstitutional agreement with parliament. despite the rejection of the eu's constitutional treaty, the commission and the council may start to develop a common foreign policy for the union. this would mean an increase in the union's powers at the expense of the member states. the sovereignty of foreign policy is one of the most important characteristics of an independent state. as regards the lisbon objectives, our group has criticised their social narrowness. we only take care of the needs of the companies, but not the needs of their employees. the commission's proposal for a special fund for globalisation is a disappointment in that it is conditional on the community supporting mass redundancies of at least a thousand workers. our group also does not support the commission's approach, which is called information policy. the union's institutions are spending money on propaganda, instead of looking in the mirror and finding out what is wrong when citizens criticize the union. it's not the mirror. the preparation for the multiannual programmes and the implementation of the operations must start quickly, otherwise 2007 will be marked by a serious under-utilisation of the appropriations.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, there is a need for joint reflection on how to achieve real and measurable benefits from eu regional policy programmes. the guidelines will be based on the channelling of eu regional policy funds into projects that help to improve the development of the less favoured regions and the growth and competitiveness of the eu economy as a whole. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr krehli, in particular for taking up this challenge and for bringing forward a steady stream of strategy papers on behalf of parliament. it is indeed justified to be strict on certain important principles and therefore i am in favour of recovering funds already paid from the regions and the member states if necessary, if the programmes do not take sufficient account of important key principles relating to european union policy, such as sustainable development, equality, non-discrimination and the implementation of environmental legislation. overall, it is important to concentrate the decreasing resources available in such a way as to maximise the efficiency of the use of aid and the european added value. an important part of this is the channelling of aid towards, inter alia, sustainable renewable energy sources. in conclusion, i would like to stress one more question. how can we manage regional projects with less bureaucracy, while ensuring that adequate financial control and supervision are ensured? unfortunately, many projects are not implemented because the bureaucracy is more expensive than the actual implementation of the project.
mr president, the eu's human rights policy must be independent and courageous, and we must not turn our backs on human rights violations for reasons of economic interest, for example. human rights are inalienable and cannot be priced. i have repeatedly expressed concern about the eu's growing energy dependence. it is not dangerous in itself, but there are problems if the addiction becomes one-sided. the eu's dependence on russian energy resources in particular seems to be increasing. it is rising to a level which can be considered worrying both for security of supply and, in particular, for political reasons. i wish we had had the courage to recognize this risk and draw the necessary conclusions.
mr president, i have two points and one question. my first point is that the prime minister is one of the best defenders of europe. i was in nice as a civil servant when he defended a stronger europe, easier decision-making and qualified majority voting. he was able to hold the meeting hostage to the last minute and he is one of the few who actually defends a truly federal europe today. there are not too many ‘federalists’ out there: there are many closet federalists, but not many real federalists any more. i really commend him and congratulate him on that. i am glad that some prime ministers are still european. my second point concerns the controversy about the name of the constitution. i heard the debate with the foreign ministers and i disagree with those who wish to change the name. the name of a ‘constitutional treaty’ describes what it is perfectly: it has constitutional elements and it is an international treaty. that treaty’s name was conceived in joschka fischer’s speech in may 2000 – six years ago. what responsible parent, six years after christening a child, would go ahead and change its name? it would lose its identity. so let us not try to hide things. problems do not go away with the change of a name. finally, the prime minister suggested that there should be a core group around the euro countries. could he be more specific?
on behalf of the pse group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr chatzimarkis, because tomorrow we will be voting in favour of competitiveness and innovation and taking another small step towards the lisbon objective. my group supports this proposal. the short-sighted thing is that, whereas the level of innovation should be greatly increased, this budget is also being reduced. in many key sectors, our competitiveness is deteriorating. the doctor's assessment of the patient would be "weak, but not yet hopeless". investing in socially sustainable competitiveness will enable us to create a europe where innovation flourishes sustainably. the future european institute of technology could help us to make innovation a commodity. however, we must ensure that this establishment of the eit does not come at the expense of the european scientific council. the framework programme focuses on supporting the activities of smes. and there you will find an army of great challengers and employers.
for the ppe-de group mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr grech, for his excellent work and for the very pleasant cooperation we have had. it's been a pleasure doing this work with you. but i do have a few things to say. firstly, there has always been talk of spending 20% more than last year. it is not a principle, it is simply that we should think carefully about our needs and how we use taxpayers' money sparingly. and then on the budgetary lines, and particularly on information policy: last year we decided by a clear majority to increase the amount of eur 5 million for visitor groups. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. this is getting kind of frustrating. why does parliament usually decide things if they do not happen? i hope that the president of parliament will see to it that parliament's wishes are fulfilled in this matter and that the five million euros are used. then you've been wanting to go out and do a web tv, but you're not making any decisions. i think the committee has rightly demanded that there should be long-term budgetary plans: what it will cost next year, in five years' time and perhaps even in the longer term, so that we know where we are going and how we are going to be managed. you can't make a decision until then. i would like to mention one more detail about the nursery school: parliament has finished up the nursery school next door and bought a nice house with nice facilities for the children, but in the wrong place. the nursery should have been in this building or right next door. it's how we act as employers that matters. we are an example, and i am disappointed in the social democrats who do not care about families with children and who give a cold shoulder and show an arrogant attitude towards families with children. we vote for the sports center and the money for web tv and all the other nice things, but we don't care about families with kids. i hope this doesn't happen again.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, our group is of course in favour of improving energy efficiency. the committee voted a number of amendments to the vidal-quadras report. the result is acceptable to us, on the principle that the forest is more important than the trees. the union lacks an energy efficiency policy for transport. i took note of the commissioner's promise to present a document on energy efficiency in transport in the near future. the greatest savings are associated with the different types of buildings and their heating and air-conditioning needs. improving the energy efficiency of buildings requires new investments and new technologies, but there is no alternative. when finland was part of russia, the tsar's government taught the finns discipline by sending our compatriots to siberia. it was done on the principle that siberia teaches. the eu's siberia is energy prices, which are rising in terms of energy efficiency. precious energy teaches. what does it teach? it teaches you to conserve energy. this report calls for considerable savings and the message to the commission is long but clear.
mr president, i should like to thank my colleague, mrs járóka, for her excellent own-initiative report. i should like to stress a couple of points. firstly, on the issue of education, romani women are, in effect, in a situation of double discrimination: first, as a member of the roma minority and, second, as members of the weaker sex. the gap in education levels between boys and girls is unacceptably wide, with many girls failing to receive even primary education. this puts them in a permanent position of disadvantage, both within and outside the realms of their own community. secondly, access to healthcare: here again, romani women are in a position of unacceptable weakness, especially on issues relating to reproductive and sexual health. efforts need to be stepped up to provide basic reproductive education and to prevent coercive sterilisation. at present, many romani women are in effect denied their right to their own body and their own health – a sovereign right of any individual. the many necessary steps identified in the report are all fundamental to lifting many romani women out of the spiral of disadvantage they are born into and are prevented from leaving. most of these steps can be accomplished as part of the mainstreaming programmes in ensuring equality of opportunity and would thus not impose new burdensome regulatory effects on member states. racial segregation and biased attitudes in a wider society are to blame, but responsibility must also lie with the romani communities themselves. i look forward to continuing the dialogue with mrs járóka and others at european level. i am sure that finland, my member state, is very committed to this. we have created a romani forum in the council of europe. we believe that this is an important issue, which will also be important in the future, especially when we look at enlargement with bulgaria and romania, where the minority is quite large.
mr president, in the face of the bad mood in the union, we should pay more attention to the image it gives of itself in the member states. last autumn the european union filed a lawsuit against finland for wolf hunting. the commission argues that the wolf is not sufficiently protected in finland, even though the wolf population has almost tripled in ten years. finland published a wolf management plan at the beginning of the year, but the action is still pending. the european union is more unpopular than ever in finland and news like this is likely to make a mockery of integration. you have to follow directives, but you can't forbid reason. there are certain things that are easier to assess on the spot, and wolf hunting is one of them.
mr president, life would not be possible without good groundwater. unfortunately, this issue has not been dealt with with with the seriousness it deserves. the eu-wide directive, which is now being revised, will make it possible to better address emissions that threaten the quality of groundwater. the directive must therefore ensure that the ingress of harmful substances, whether intentional or unintentional, into groundwater is prevented. so prevention is the a and o of everything. european legislation must ensure the highest possible level of protection. this is linked to the fact that different member states have different sources of emissions due to historical reasons and natural conditions. it is therefore appropriate that member states participate in the drawing up of the lists of pollutants. this will allow the very sources of emissions that are essential in each region to be tackled with rigor. it is worth allocating resources efficiently so that the quality of groundwater is improved throughout europe and that this good quality can also be maintained and sustained.
mr president, mr commissioner, the european union's common research policy must produce scientific and economic added value which cannot be achieved by the efforts and activities of individual member states or private companies. an example of a good joint project is the funding of the iter fusion research. i therefore disagree with mr harms. it is a project that individual states should not pursue alone. it is a project whose success is not at all certain within the next half century. however, it must be completed. energy-crazed humanity cannot afford to ignore this possibility. surely, the search will also lead to scientific discoveries, as the english word serendipity describes. we find something that was never known to be there, but was found as a byproduct of the actual fusion research. in this respect, research money is not wasted, even if the fusion process itself could never be successfully tamed to produce more energy than is needed to start the process. iter also involves third countries, including the usa, russia and japan, as well as china. it is well justified to use the eu's research framework programme funds for this truly international project. at the same time, research and the use of renewable energy sources must be increased, and on this point i agree with the green group.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to draw attention to health and energy. the committee on energy, research and technology wants to increase the share of health in the research budget. eu-funded health research must focus on issues that the pharmaceutical industry does not care about, such as treatments for so-called neglected diseases. these diseases are the poorest people in the world, and the pharmaceutical companies don't care. eu research funding must focus on disease prevention and the impact of the environment on health, which is also of no interest to the pharmaceutical industry but is central to our health and well-being. the envi committee also wants to increase the share of energy. energy financing must be consistent with our climate commitments, otherwise we risk falling behind the united states and japan in the development of new technologies. they have multiple research funding. energy research funding should be directed primarily towards technologies that deliver rapid emission reductions, i.e. energy efficiency and renewable energy. it is absurd that we should continue the decades-old trend of allocating more money to nuclear research through euratom than to all other energy research in the eu. the envi committee wants to focus on euratom only in the field of nuclear safety and research into nuclear waste management.
mr president, i would like to thank mr buzek for his good work. we have made our wishes known for the seventh framework programme. we made as many as 1 700 amendments to it, so that would have been enough for up to eight framework programmes. the scientific council is one of the most significant reforms of the framework programme and is the first truly pan-european research funding body. its aim is to ensure high-quality research and the retention of scientists in the eu. it is absolutely necessary to support cutting-edge research. there are 500 top universities in the world, 200 in europe and another 200 in the united states, but only two european universities make the top 20. if we in europe can afford trivia, then we should be able to afford cutting-edge research. we must also ensure that the fruits of research are exploited. the gap between research, innovation and productivity is too wide. the union research programme should also remove obstacles to cooperation between member states. article 169 of the framework programme also provides an instrument for strategic cooperation between member states. that's what we need. it is intolerable that the research budget has been cut by 20 billion at a time when we are moving towards an information economy which requires research. at this rate, we're not going to be the world's leading information economy. our investment is lagging behind both the united states and japan. in the field of information and communication technology, we have succeeded in creating many commercial applications. the ict sector accounts for 8% of european gdp and 6% of employment. but we have erected barricades, such as the messy patent laws that are reducing our competitiveness. a civilized europe must improve its position through research and product development and, for example, information and communication technologies.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'll just touch on the visa agreement. we say we want to simplify visa procedures, but a closer look at the bilateral agreement between the eu and russia shows that the agreement actually simplifies very little. the agreement will affect only a few percentage points of the travellers. although these are important groups, such as students, organizational workers and businessmen, one must ask what is the situation with the other groups, i.e. the vast majority who would really have to look around. is it desirable to categorize people in a modern world? for the average traveller, that is, for more than 90 per cent of all those who wish to travel, the agreement does not simplify things at all. for example, it will still be impossible to make a private car trip to russia. this is because the jungle of invitation requirements and mandatory registrations is not to be revised. it is also unclear how the introduction of so-called biometric data will be linked to the visa procedure. it is a mystery to me that the agreement has not been linked to the international hague convention on the abduction of children. for example, from my home country, finland, every year some children are taken to russia by the russian parent. there are no legal means to return the children to the other parent. all of this is obvious. we in the liberal group hope that these ideas will be heard by the other groups. a chimera speech is a chimera speech. you have to be able to say that clearly. the agreement concerns too few people and does not sufficiently facilitate the actual visa procedure. this problem affects both those who want to travel to russia and those who want to enter the schengen area. it is not our task in this parliament to blame the weak result solely on the russian side. we must be able to see the bigger picture and set goals for our relations with our neighbours. it's the job we were chosen for.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr commissioner, the representative of the presidency stated in his speech that there was a revival at the beginning of the presidency. what did we wake up to? energy dependence has been known for a long time. the increase in energy demand for the eu as a whole will be met in future by additional gas imports. in this context, it is hoped that the problems of energy transit, which have become apparent in the context of events in ukraine and russia, have been brought to the fore. what happened before the first frosty days of the year? the commission has also received comments from the ukrainian authorities. it was fine for russia if russia also got the market price for gas and not just the transit cost. as a result, it became clear that ukraine had stolen gas from gas stocks held by russian gazprom in ukraine. at the beginning of the year it became clear that ukraine was stealing gas from europe for its own needs. i hope that this has raised awareness of the seriousness of these transit problems and the need for stability in transit countries as well as in russia in terms of gas supplies. the baltic gas pipeline is clearly improving the security of gas supply, which is understandable in that it will get rid of these transit countries that can close the pipelines and steal gas from the pipeline for themselves. the commissioner, mr rehn, said that it would be good to include the northern dimension in future eu programmes.
mr president, the most pressing issue in eu-russia relations at the moment is energy. energy is the political and economic climate for the eu and russia. energy is also a potential source of conflict between the european union and russia. the interruption of electricity, gas and oil supply leads directly to internal crises in many member states. the january outages have put europe on partial alert. what can be done? the problem could be addressed by supply contracts. russia wants long-term supply contracts to allow it to invest decisively in equipment to ensure its own energy supply. many in the union consider that longterm contracts are detrimental to competition. but in this situation of a constant energy shortage, long-term agreements are hardly the biggest problem, but could be a common goal for both parties. the contracts guarantee the position of both the buyer and the seller and create energy stability. at the same time, the union could contribute to increasing investment in the russian energy sector, which would thereby affect operational security. the aim is, of course, to open up the energy markets of both the union and russia to competition at some stage. the finnish presidency could take action because we have a long-standing energy cooperation with russia, very long-term agreements, and there have been no concerns about operational security, although russia has undergone a couple of revolutions in the last 15 years. all along, electricity, oil and gas have been coming in as much as was agreed. so it makes it easier for both parties and creates predictability, which would be the right starting point between neighbours.
i am very pleased to hear that, commissioner. we made our position clear last year when we blocked the common position, which would have codified the epo’s disputable software patent practice. that was the right decision, and your decision not to table a new proposal is also the right one. i should like to ask a question regarding the more general work regarding patent policy. we now have a lot of proposals on the table, such as the community patent, a european patent litigation agreement and maybe even some suggestions for finally changing the epc. what do you think the procedure should be for this? should parliament have codecision?
mr president, we need a constitution to meet the challenges of cooperation in the new millennium. the union of almost 30 countries cannot be successfully governed by the rules created in the early 2000s for a community of six countries. the treaty provides a reasonable response to the challenges that citizens have posed to european cooperation. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the basis of the results of the consultations. equal treatment of citizens requires that each member state has the right and the duty to decide independently on the ratification of the constitution. only then will it be time to draw conclusions about the extension of the agreement. finland, as the future presidency, deserves our appreciation for implementing this principle.
mr president, i would like to make three points. the first point is that i think the speech made by mr barroso was excellent. right now we are getting involved in this vicious circle of euro-pessimism and what we need is a heavy-duty injection of euro-optimism. we need to take a look at what we have achieved over the past 10 to 12 years and the results are overwhelming – everything from enlargement to justice and home affairs, cfsp, and, of course, the single currency. sometimes we have a tendency to lose perspective. we must realise that the european union is constant crisis management. we go from one little crisis to another, but i think the bigger picture is a success story. the second point i want to make is that right now i think we are facing a new generation of what i call ‘eu whingers’ or ‘eu whiners’. they are people, usually ministers, who go into a closed room, have a discussion, clap each other on the back and say ‘great decision’. five minutes after that, they get into the blame game, go in front of their national media and say, ‘oh no, what an awful decision the eu has just made’. you cannot talk negatively about the european union six days a week and then go to church on sunday and say that the eu is a great thing. perhaps this could be the reason why the uk foreign secretary margaret beckett does not want to see much transparency, because then people would see that some of the british positions are actually pro-european. the final point i want to make is that we need a constitutional treaty. the problems are not going to go away and we have heard that in the debate today. we need the charter of fundamental rights; we need a legal personality; we need a foreign minister; we need more qualified-majority voting and we need more codecision. so we need to fix it, and hopefully we can fix it before 2009. deepening and widening go hand in hand. nice is not enough. (applause)
mr president, when we were discussing the report by mr ždanoka, i thought it was important that the amendments to paragraph 11 were not adopted, because they had nothing to do with non-discrimination, and that is why i voted with the majority.
the author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must understand that sustainable development is the foundation of our future. if we forget that, then our economy will also lose its foundation. it is a misconception that economic development and environmental protection are at odds with each other. the experience is the opposite. ambitious environmental protection promotes economic development, and this applies to both governments and industries. industry has called for an analysis of the economic impact of environmental policy. the problem is, once the analysis is done, the results are not believed. for example, when the analyses showed that the reach chemicals legislation was economically viable, the industry did not believe it. similarly, when analyses show that air pollution is worth cleaning up, the auto industry lobbies against it. we need ambitious targets, for example, in the field of energy saving. the least and cheapest thing we could do is to decide to end subsidies that are harmful to the environment. fossil energy subsidies in the eu are over eur 24 billion a year, four times the amount of subsidies for renewable energy.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, on behalf of the social democrats, i can say that i agree with the commissioner that we must finally put sustainable development policy from words to deeds. sustainable development must be made a real policy agenda for the eu. sustainable development must be a genuine and measurable principle of trans-parency for all the political objectives of the european union. the means of policy must be adapted to these objectives. it is therefore unacceptable that at present projects which damage the environment are supported at a rate which is many times higher than that of projects which improve the environment. the decisions already taken must also be implemented. the european council decided years ago to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies. this has not happened, not gradually, not otherwise. eu-wide environmental taxes have also been discussed in several contexts. we know that unanimity is required for their introduction, but we need to make progress in the right direction. the european council also decided to introduce a pan-european energy tax. the sixth environmental action programme, adopted by the council and parliament by means of a codecision procedure, provides for the introduction of a pan-european environmental tax. a genuine environmental policy requires that economic instruments of legislation and other instruments go hand in hand. this will help to achieve an optimal situation in which society develops eco-efficient and environmentally friendly technologies in an economically viable way. this is where the lisbon strategy comes into its own, i.e. the environment is also good for the economy, and its development is what makes the wheels of the economy turn.
mr president, i have seen and heard homophobia vaguely, on tv and so on, but listening to some of our polish colleagues speak here today, especially mr roszkowski, mr pęk, mr giertych and mrs krupa, well that is homophobia if anything is! it is absolutely unbelievable stuff! (applause) i am glad that i have a lot of good, sensible, rational polish friends, because if that is liberal history, then for goodness sake, i do not want to see what right-wing conservativism is! sorry about that. to me this resolution is about four things. it is about the fight against racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism and homophobia. first, we already have a resolution on homophobia, which was signed by all of the political parties, and i am indeed very glad about that. second, it is clear that racist violence has increased in europe and we cannot just sit down and watch it. we need action. we need action from the commission, as mrs in ‘t veld said, and we need action, as many have said, from the finnish presidency. my third and final point is that when i came here i thought that the resolution should not name any countries or political parties. i am still trying to believe that it should not do so, but if someone wanted to put the country of poland into this resolution, i think that after hearing this debate there is no question as to why it was done. because i am a big friend of poland, i still think it should come out. (applause)
when mr larijani first responded in public to mr solana’s offer last week, he said that the package offer contained some ambiguities. can you give us any information about what those ambiguities are? have they been solved yet? he also said that the european union side has given weeks, not months, for a response. when are we expecting a response from the iranians?
president-in-office, i am in the process of trying to get a visa for russia. it is an extremely cumbersome process: it takes 15 working days and it costs eur 71. for me, the most difficult regulation is that you have to have a passport photo in which you do not smile. we cannot find any of those. nevertheless, my question – which is slightly dangerous, as i come from finland, which has a border of 1300 km with russia – is: what is your educated guess about the timetable for a visa-free zone?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, we can all be very satisfied with the resolution before us. it is based on a remarkable effort by the commission, the european parliament, the european securities committee regulators and market players, which has resulted in the successful conclusion of the implementing measures for mifid. the directive itself is nothing short of revolutionary in the way it opens up investment markets in the eu and achieves better guarantees for investor protection than in previous legislation. the implementing measures before us, which establish some 17 key provisions of the directive, represent balanced and measured regulatory arrangements for bringing these twin promises to fruition. the procedure by which these implementing measures have been drawn up is also highly significant. this is the first time the european parliament has been fully involved in concluding implementing legislation at the comitology phase. in the end, the percentage of parliament’s amendments scheduled to be adopted by the esc is about 87%. this compares highly favourably with, for example, what we obtained in the underlying mifid directive, where that percentage was about 50%. all the parties involved can feel justified pride in the way we managed to overcome potential interinstitutional pitfalls since, as we all know, parliament’s role in comitology is the topic of an often heated debate. in fact, we are still awaiting some answers from the commission and council. i should like to address special thanks, however, to the commission for its open and forthcoming cooperation with me and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which was instrumental in bringing about this very positive outcome. i agree with the remarks made by the commission on monday to the effect that we have achieved something historic not only for the financial markets but also in the manner level 2 legislation and other comitology legislation is framed. despite the positive outcome, i should like to mention a few points. i am somewhat perplexed that the commission did not accept our modification which sought to clarify the best execution obligations of investment firms towards clients when dealing on their own account. i hope that the commission and national regulations will interpret the resulting provision in the light of the agreement reached in the level 1 directive. furthermore, i should have liked to have seen more flexibility on the delayed reporting of large trades. we will have to be vigilant and promptly invoke the review clause if it becomes apparent that premature reporting of large trades is harming the provision of liquidity to clients, making it more expensive or rendering eu markets less competitive than markets in other parts of the world. finally, i had hoped that a more modern interpretation of the business in derivatives could have been found. it will be important to amend the level 2 measures promptly if it becomes apparent that new clients and new markets, especially transactions using the internet, are being disadvantaged. the number of criticisms is nonetheless dwarfed by the overall positive result. i should like to thank all the participants and all my colleagues who helped in this endeavour.
mr president, even though you made some jokey remarks about this mifid arriving in the european parliament, i should like to say that it is not just a technical issue that we are adopting today. this is the first time parliament has really increased its powers when it comes to delegated legislation in the field of comitology. we have been trying to get more powers when we are dealing with delegated legislation on comitology. it was a disgrace for parliament that the issue was debated as the last item on yesterday’s agenda. getting those powers was a historic moment for the european parliament. we have to fight strongly for those powers, especially now, when we are renegotiating the comitology agreement and interinstitutional agreement. i know that every political group backs these extra powers for the european parliament. it is not a technical issue. these issues should be dealt with during the day, not at midnight! (loud applause)
mr president, i voted in favour of the joint resolution by the other political groups. unfortunately, the ppe-de group did not sign the joint resolution as a group. however, as individuals, many colleagues voted in favour of it. i think that fighting discrimination in all forms is a very important part of the work of an mep. even though the joint resolution had some ambiguities and was not 100% perfect, i can support it, based on the fact that it was reasonably balanced for this house.
mr president, i simply wanted to say that i have exactly the same position as mrs kauppi. for me, it was a resolution against racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism and homophobia. i voted for it because i think it is a very important resolution. last time we had a joint resolution against homophobia, which all the groups agreed on. unfortunately, i think the preparation has not been very well done this time. perhaps next time we will be able to get the whole house to unite against homophobia.
the author. mr president, east timor was in everyone's hearts a few years ago because of the hard experiences of its independence struggle and because of the suffering it had suffered during the quarter of a century of brutal occupation before that. the independence of the country, the return of order to the country and the launching of international aid operations quickly made east timor an example for us europeans of the positive potential of international solidarity and cooperation. the recent unrest, violence and large numbers of refugees in east timor have therefore been a disappointment to the international community. the disappointment has been particularly marked in that it has shown the international community's premature expectation of a lasting improvement in the situation of faith in east timor. it is now time to face the facts and admit that resolving and dealing with deep-rooted problems often takes more time than the un's resources, burdened by many crisis areas, can provide without additional effort. the joint motion for a resolution on east timor by the six political groups has the support of the alde group and deserves broad support from the whole of the european parliament.
mr president, mr chancellor, mr commissioner, the highlight of the austrian presidency was the agreement on the new economic guidelines for 2007-13. this was achieved by using the commission and parliament as the table-swiping tablecloths. the empty rhetoric of commission president barroso did not work. the lack of credibility of barroso's speeches on the eu constitution is also evident. you can take these greetings to barroso, commissioner rehn. the commission's 'plan d' is exactly that: propaganda, agitation and persuasion from the top down. democracy would have been to declare the eu constitution dead. it would have been a treaty democracy. the constitution had to be adopted unanimously by all the member states. the opposite of a constitutional democracy is a dictatorship of the majority. the eu's political elite and the eurocracy are bad losers. you are not good losers, mr austria, mr commissioner, and you are not good losers, mr parliament. you are trying to revive a dead constitution, you are asking member states to ratify something that will never come into force anywhere. you are asking the same of my home country, finland, where, according to opinion polls, only 22% of the population support the ratification of the eu constitution by parliament. shame on you, opponents of the treaty democracy, you who work with the 22% minority! the positive aspect of the summit is the new openness of the councils and comitology. the resolution shows that what is needed to improve democracy is not more constitutionalism but more democratic will. more transparency is better democracy.
mr president, thanks to austria, chancellor schlüsseli and his orchestra have eu expertise. in the services directive, austria led the way to a solution that is largely based on the outcome of the parliament's vote. the solution was not yet expected from austria, but it is good that it has come. the solution is balanced and effective and certainly better than the original proposal for a directive. the european union must advance in the field of the internal market and economic affairs if europe as an economic area is to compete in the world and provide jobs for its citizens. the increase in transparency is a good thing, but the decision taken now is only a small step and a beginning, far from being a sufficient or final result. i also think that the decisions of coreper and the reasons for them should be published ... (the president interrupted)
mr chairman, i would like to make three points. the first is that i think the austrian presidency was a very successful one. in order to have a successful presidency you need three things: one, you need to prepare well; two, you need to be objective; and three, you need a little bit of luck. and i think you had all of those three things, chancellor schüssel. you all know that it is not the presidency that makes the agenda, it is the agenda that makes the presidency. if i can make a recommendation, in 1999, you co-chaired with finland. you will do it again. neither one of us made it to the world cup; perhaps we can try sending out a joint team the next time around, because we seem to work quite well together. my second point is that i think you and the presidency have pushed the constitutional debate into a new phase. you say, ‘we go from reflection to action’; i say we go from reflection to analysis. we will get a proposal during the german and portuguese presidencies, and we might even do a little bit of renegotiation during the slovenian and the french presidencies. but, may i make just one careful proposal – and i am doing so under the close observation of my group chairman and of mr daul. we had the dutch presidency pushing through the maastricht treaty and the amsterdam treaty, and the nice treaty being pushed through by the french presidency. if some people want to change the name of the constitution and we finish those negotiations in 2008 during the french presidency, why do we not call it the treaty of strasbourg? how is that for symbolism? i am just floating the idea. think about it! the final point i wanted to make is that i think we need to move from a time of euro-pessimism towards euro-optimism. let us stop whining and blaming. let us start working and looking at the bigger picture. we are actually doing quite well. with these words i would like to thank the austrian presidency and welcome the finnish presidency. (applause)
mr president, many colleagues have already asked what we are doing today in discussing stock exchange mergers in europe. of course it is not for the european parliament to decide on the kinds of mergers that can occur and the kind of activity on the market. it is also up to the commission to make judgements on whether the euronext-frankfurt börse merger is better than the transatlantic one. we need to look at the kinds of opportunities the transatlantic merger might give us, especially in terms of the transatlantic financial services dialogue which, i think, has been the most fruitful example of what we can do together if we really cooperate with the us scc. i want to congratulate the commissioner on the amount of progress made. i think if the market forces decide that we will have a transatlantic stock exchange, that will be a huge opportunity for regulatory convergence. it is not about extra-territorial sarbanes oxley rules coming to europe; the point is also that we can put forward our strategic models, our very good technological platforms and put them to very effective use in the us. we have been negotiating, for example, about the issue of electronic trading screens in the gats negotiations. we have been trying to get our trading screens to us stock markets and vice versa, but this has not happened. that kind of transatlantic stock exchange merger would be a huge opportunity for regulatory convergence and allow the job that has been done so well to continue in the future.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the green group warmly thanks rapporteur caroline lucas for her excellent report, which contains well-founded proposals for action. air transport emissions are growing faster than any other source of carbon dioxide emissions, and other emissions and impacts from aviation more than double its global warming impact. since 1990, eu aviation greenhouse gas emissions have increased by 85%, or more than 4% per year, threatening to wipe out a quarter of the emission reductions achieved in other sectors during the prohibition period. we can't let this go on. air transport has by far the highest emissions per kilometre travelled. the impact is 15 times greater than, for example, that of trains, but every aspect of air transport is subsidised, including the exemption from fuel tax. on the other hand, rail transport is taxed in many ways and is also affected by carbon trading. the polluter pays principle must be extended to air transport, of course without distorting competition, but on the other hand the current tax advantages and other incentives for air transport are a distortion of competition in themselves. the next global climate agreement must include aviation, but it is already justified to extend emissions trading to all flights to and from the european union, preferably through a separate emissions trading scheme, in order to make the emissions reduction drive effective. my colleagues, each of us flies a lot. we can also take action on our own. we can offset the emissions of our own flights voluntarily. there are organisations that calculate emissions per passenger in flight and through which the equivalent amount of investment in emission reduction in developing countries can be financed. i myself started to pay the allowances for my own flights last year and now i have paid the allowances for all the flights i have flown since i was elected to the european parliament. i challenge all my colleagues to do the same. we can afford it.
mr president, when we were drafting the emissions trading directive, it was hard to imagine any other report having such a profound impact on european conditions and about which the decision-makers knew so little. at that time, europe was entering uncharted territory, as even theoretical research into the effects of emissions trading was only a matter of name. the effects are now well known, particularly those which are detrimental to european competitiveness and, paradoxically, those which are also harmful to the global environment. now that we are widening the frontline in the fight against climate change, we cannot afford to make the same mistakes again. against this background, the demand in the report that the eu should show leadership in combating climate change by taking action in good time on its own territory is too much to ask for and we are currently paying a very high price for this attitude. leadership can't be about doing things alone and having other people show you approval on the sidelines. it is clear that aviation emissions must be addressed, but the success of the project itself depends on the means chosen to achieve the objective. we know from the current emissions trading that we need a common global approach to make the most of it for the environment. the proposed measures therefore require further scrutiny and care, because what we need now is not ideology but practical action. on my own initiative, we have tabled an amendment on behalf of my group, calling for a clear impact assessment, the definition of emission limits, clarification of who is responsible in practice for the required reduction measures and, in particular, how to ensure that non-eu airlines are also involved in emissions trading. without this knowledge base, we would be building a house of cards again. other alternatives to emissions trading itself must also be explored. the priority measures include improving technology and the smoothness of air traffic itself, as the majority of emissions are caused by obsolete equipment and congestion at airports. it was therefore regrettable that, in the case of the emissions trading directive, we received such an incomplete proposal on such a crucial subject. the commission is now preparing its own proposal on aviation emissions trading, and that is where the revenge is due.
the rapporteur. mr president, the regulation on the application of the provisions of the aarhus convention to the community institutions, which will be put to the final vote of approval in the plenary tomorrow, will complete the process of which the eu citizen will be the primary beneficiary. this is a major piece of environmental legislation concerning access to environmental information and the right of citizens to participate in decision-making. together with the delegation from the conciliation committee, we reached a result where we confirmed both of these, also at union level. i think the result is balanced. i am particularly pleased that our delegation in the conciliation committee unanimously approved it. i'd also like to thank my colleagues. after the initial interpretation, we found a common line, which we successfully defended. i have been the rapporteur for the aarhus convention throughout the process, always stressing the rights of citizens in environmental matters. openness and transparency are the lifeblood of democracy and an essential part of our own security. i am therefore particularly pleased that we have been able to improve the transparency of the institutions, while retaining power, but also responsibility, in the institutions to which it belongs. the european parliament, the council and other democratically elected institutions are involved. in a democracy, the people are the supreme authority and the people's elected decision-makers carry out their will. so i did not think it was right to go down the road of politicians delegating power away from themselves to less open and less transparent parties. the aarhus convention, which has been ratified by the member states and the eu, is implemented in the european community by means of three directives, the first two of which, the so-called pillars, have already passed the co-decision procedure with conciliation. these pillars were the transparency of environmental information and the right of public participation. unfortunately, the fate of the third pillar, the directive on the right of appeal, is still unknown. now that these three pillars of århus were extended to the eu's own institutions, it brought with it legal challenges that set this regulation apart from previous directives addressed to member states. one area of concern in the conciliation was the accessibility of environmental information. the amendments by parliament contained technical and legal errors, which was one of the reasons why our delegation in the conciliation committee came closer to the position of the commission and the council than was apparent after the second reading. the exceptions to the disclosure of environmental information were one example of this. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. however, this would have been legally impossible, since the directive is addressed only to the member states. in this respect, the regulation no 1049/2001 on public access to documents of the community institutions, which was specifically designed for this purpose, was finally applied. this approach is consistently the same for all information. another difficult area in which we abandoned the second reading position was the right of the public to participate in the preparation of action plans and programmes financed by the eu institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. some of the amendments concern the right to information, although the issue was the right to participate. but we were able to negotiate a good compromise. with these few compromises we managed to preserve the spirit of the amendments of the second reading of parliament, even though we eventually gave up some of them. other important achievements in line with parliament's line were the extension of the period of public consultation and the extension of the obligation of the ec institutions to open their archives. the european parliament also succeeded in extending the right of appeal for ngos from four to six weeks. the regulation itself reserves a specific role for ngos to request internal review of decisions taken by the institutions. the role which the regulation now creates for them is important for the union. i would like to thank the environmental organisations for their participation and contribution during the legislative process in aarhus. while we may not always have agreed on the extent of the rights they are entitled to, for example, i appreciate and respect their desire to be genuinely involved in making better environmental legislation in the eu. the future will show how well we have succeeded in our mission. if the regulation works in practice as well as the two previous directives, it will raise the level of transparency in the eu to a level that is in the interests of both our common nature and our citizens. finally, i would like to thank austria in particular for its excellent presidency of the council. this was the third mediation i presided over as rapporteur. my experience of the austrian representatives' professionalism, expertise and negotiating skills has been nothing short of fantastic, and i have every reason to give austria a high mark for the presidency, and i would also like to thank the commission representatives for the excellent cooperation i have enjoyed throughout the whole of the århus process since 2000.
mr president, the reform of the structural funds legislation has produced a satisfactory result. the task was not easy, as the views and interests of the new and old member states had to be reconciled. on the other hand, in the case of the old member states, the needs of both the southern and northern regions had to be taken into account. as the northernmost member of the committee, i am particularly concerned to ensure that the sparsely populated northern regions of sweden and finland have a fairer status. the committee adopted a position in favour of the alignment of the northernmost regions with the outermost regions. the commission, the council and parliament worked together to find a financing solution to safeguard the position of the northern sparsely populated areas for the next financial period. in future, it will be necessary to ensure that this aid is permanent, since the natural conditions underlying it are permanent.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for a good report. our contribution to european research and development is still not sufficient, despite all the good talk. the latest figures show that we are still lagging behind both the united states and japan, and that new competitors are catching up with us, as has just been shown. however, it is not just money that will turn top-level research into innovation and jobs, but also the creation of an innovative climate, as the commissioner has also said. it's the most important feature of modern industrial society. it's not about kicking the ball, and it's not about who runs fastest, it's about who thinks fastest. it is about our attitudes towards it and our willingness to follow a unified strategy to achieve results. without the innovation climate, without the money, without the strategy, failure is all that's needed. public administration, academia and business need to join forces and specialise. the problem is that there are very wide differences between member states and the speed at which they travel is very different. the creation of a single market for researchers is a worthwhile objective. the best researchers must go to the places where the best research and innovation work is done. several specific union programmes, such as descartes or aristotle, have increased the mobility of researchers, but there are still walls that are effectively pushing researchers abroad. the european research policy must include a commitment to the working conditions of researchers. this is how we create innovation-based competitiveness. finland has shown by its own example that competitiveness based on research and innovation can be built on the back of a welfare society.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the rapporteur for an excellent report, we support it. do we really want to make europe the world's leading knowledge-based economy, or do we want to stick to the old ways with subsidies? this is the point. the old industrial sectors can also flourish and be competitive if their renewal is supported. for example, education and innovation will provide a good workforce for the future. nokia is a good example. did you know that a few decades ago, nokia was a well-known shoe manufacturer? it's a long way from a shoe to a cell phone. in the face of increasingly intense and intensifying global competition, european competitiveness can only be maintained by investing in research, development and innovation. we all agree on that, but it's not going to happen. however, competitiveness has also been maintained by unsustainable methods such as mass relocations and sudden production shifts. it's like you come to a lake and you fish it empty and then you move to another lake and you fish it empty again. this european predatory fishing cannot be considered wise. the workers in companies are flexible, and in many countries they are particularly flexible, but the lack of mental protection at work is a brake in an innovative society. it is important that employees enjoy and share, and this helps us to ensure an efficient and sustainable workforce. according to the latest report by eurofound, the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, work-related stress has increased and has been steadily increasing in recent years. the result is sick leave, reduced productivity and even exclusion from the labour market. the increase in demands on working life, particularly in sectors dominated by women, is of particular concern. if the chinese work with the taste of blood in their mouths, we should work with the taste of smiles.
during yesterday’s meeting with the finnish government in helsinki, mr barroso said that a free trade agreement with russia is possible. however, there are some governments who think that this can be achieved only if russia becomes a full member of the wto. what does the commission think about this and what is now the way forward after this initiative by mr barroso yesterday?
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, thank you for your interesting remarks. this report was adopted by a very large majority in the committee and i thank the members of the committee for their good cooperation, who made many good amendments to the report. for my part, i considered it important during the preparatory work that the right of each member state to prohibit the import of spent nuclear fuel for its final disposal should be required to be enshrined in union law. this principle is enshrined in the iaea convention on the safety of spent fuel and radioactive waste management. the european parliament supported the adoption of the convention and euratom is a party to it. the principle is thus generally accepted in the union that a member state need not receive, against its will, spent fuel from other countries for final disposal on its own soil. although the principle is clear, it is not so in practice. the commission has expressed its opposition to the idea of incorporating this right into community law. the commission may be hampered by the idea that the free movement of goods enshrined in the treaty should also apply to the final disposal of spent fuel. in its mind, spent nuclear fuel is like any other commodity. since the free movement of goods within the union is required by the community treaties, member states should not be entitled to prohibit by union primary law the import of spent fuel from other countries in the event that it stores its own spent fuel on its own soil. there may also be a desire for free trade in this area. the members of our committee supported the rapporteur's position on this matter. the right of member states to ban the import of spent nuclear fuel is now enshrined in the articles of the directive in the parliament's report. once it's written into the articles, the order is legally binding. if it were merely written in the preamble, it would not have the same legal value, but would merely express political will without the force of law. this principle and the report as a whole were so unanimously adopted in committee that there was no need to open the report for amendments in plenary. however, i have supported the green group in its call for a debate in parliament on the amendment of the directive. i think they should be asked to explain why the member states should be responsible for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel themselves, without allowing radioactive waste or spent fuel to be taken outside the union for reprocessing or disposal. i justify this requirement by the high level of nuclear know-how in the union and the strict safety regulations. i fear that the possible third countries will have lower standards and looser legislation. the use of nuclear power generates significant radioactive risks, and those risks must be controlled in the countries producing nuclear power. problems that can potentially be solved together within the union must not be transferred outside the union to third countries. that is why i support many of the amendments tabled by the green group, even though they were not widely understood in committee.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, seven years ago, during finland's last presidency, important steps were taken towards federalising the union. the foundations were laid for the eu's area of freedom, security and justice, i.e. the com munication of the civil law of the member states. that's the line we're going to take. the previous period also saw the start of the militarization of the union by the creation of military institutions, which will be ready for military action in africa at the beginning of next year. they're practiced in the congo without going to the origins of the chaos in the eastern part of the country. in the most political matters of the presidency, the finnish government will not receive support from its own people. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to amend the treaty on european union to include the european parliament in the composition of the council of ministers. the opinion poll shows that only 22 percent of finns support the ratification proposed by the government. this constitution will never be enforced anywhere. it is useless to ratify it, but it is being done at the request of the commission, among others. i am not saying that the commissioner, mr rehn, has taken a position on behalf of the commission on this matter, which is outside the commission's remit. the commissioner rehn's statement was inappropriate for a commissioner. some member states have also proposed ratification of the constitution to finland. finland's acceptance is a sign of submission. nor does finland respect the french and dutch democracies. the opinion poll shows that the finnish people are opposed to the country's military alliance. the finnish government is also undermining the will of its own people by making the provision of eu combat troops one of its priorities. the old government has acquiesced to the eu's wishes by removing from national law the requirement of a un mandate as a condition for the mobilisation of the combat troops unit. the eu is being prepared for illegal wars without a un mandate, even though, in the international legal sense, the precondition for legal military action is a un mandate. our group opposes attempts to militarize the eu and to link the eu to illegal wars. finnish officials are trained to handle well the issues of eu enlargement, structural fund programmes, the reach regulation, the framework programme for science and research, and many other current issues on the eu agenda. the commission has also proposed a number of amendments to the directive on services and free trade, which our group has criticised. the openness and transparency that finland says it is pursuing would be further enhanced by finland's own decision to disclose the recipients of eu agricultural aid. our group supports an active policy towards russia and considers the proposal by commission president barroso for a free trade agreement with russia to be an interesting opening to which the presidency should respond. we wish finland success in all its current affairs.
mr president, mr prime minister, finland is taking the lead in the eu at a time when the union needs leadership, if anything. that's why it was a pleasure to hear prime minister vanhassen's message about finland's goals. finland has thoroughly prepared for a successful presidency. this has been reflected, for example, in the way we finnish members have been contacted. that is good, because it is finland, not just the presidency of the government. finland has argued that the union should invest in innovation and competitiveness, openness, energy, the northern dimension and external relations, as well as in finding a solution to the fate of the constitution. i couldn't agree more with you on these goals. after all, a united and competitive europe has always been the traditional goal of the convention and the european people's party. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in particular, the government's approach to the european defence dimension has been unfortunately inconsistent. the finnish government has generally been critical of closer defence cooperation. our government has only agreed to this after realizing that it will be in the minority in the council. finally, practice has since shown that the development opposed by the government has been right and good for all of europe, not just finland. mr. prime minister, security is not created by isolation. the security of european citizens and the stability of the world require closer cooperation. our citizens are also waiting for this. as you said, the eu has become a great power which cannot afford to pause in its external action. what could the council do under finnish leadership? the constitutional treaty contains a number of specific provisions in the field of security. these include the solidarity clause, enhanced cooperation in crisis management, closer cooperation on defence equipment, structural cooperation and the obligation to assist other member states in the event of a military attack, the so-called mutual defence. most of these have already been put into use in one way or another, with the exception of the security clause. but the progress has been a bit of a muddle. it is high time to achieve the great goal of maastricht: a common european foreign and security policy, of which the common defence is an essential part. to quote the prime minister's wise words, we must not wait for a better time, it is here and now.
mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is possible that finland's success as chairman will be measured by the way it speaks to russia and negotiates with russia. i don't think anyone will blame us for being finnish today! energy is a foreign policy weapon, but it's also a weapon in the fight for global resources, for energy. the energy issue has become a sensitive point of contention between the european union and russia, which can also lead to conflict. we want security of supply, secure energy supply, and russia wants a secure customer. is this an impossible equation to reconcile? that is what finland is trying to do, because finland and russia have been doing this for decades. despite a few revolutions, the oil has flowed normally. the russians have begun to take a positive view of the northern dimension, but are now wary of a new neighbourhood policy, as they do not want to be equated with the southern or sub-saharan states. the northern dimension must become an important forum for northern affairs. the partnership and cooperation agreement needs to be renewed. it was obsolete at birth, and just as poettering said, we want a stable, democratic and developing russia. but russia cannot be forced to do so, and we have experience of this. finland's presidency will be different from that of berlusconi, with less drama and a little more honesty.
mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the finnish presidency will be a refreshment for a tired eu. at least that's what we finns like to think. history has shown that the presidency of small countries has often been a breath of fresh air. at the moment, a north wind is very welcome. it's refreshing. concrete and close cooperation with russia is important for the whole of the eu, both economically and politically. as a neighbour, finland has a particular interest in getting the negotiations started and moving forward quickly. despite its border proximity, finland is not one of the countries suspected of pursuing its own interests at the expense of the common european policy. the finnish presidency is expected to take concrete action on energy policy, environmental policy and, in particular, on cooperation in the baltic sea region in all its aspects. secondly, i would like to stress the need for openness. the prime minister said that transparency was essential. the most important aspect of openness is the publicity of documents, because the publicity of meetings can sometimes be rather superficial. only through transparency can eu policies be understood by people and controlled by citizens and also by national decision-makers, and this control and accountability is important. the eu must have the support and approval of its citizens, and transparency, control and accountability are important elements.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, mr. prime minister vanhanen, with all due respect, you have more than a careful official or a student, and a leader, let alone a visionary. you have to start by managing the processes that are already under way in the union, which is necessary and important, but not enough. the leader must look at the challenges that the development of the world and europe presents us. you've been very slow to address climate change. the priorities of the finnish presidency do not even mention climate change, even though it is not only the future of europe but also the future of all humanity. it is certainly not enough to list the meetings on the agenda. the eu presidency needs to be proactive and creative. otherwise, there will be no global agreement on how to continue climate protection after kyoto, that is after 2012, which is already very close. the inclusion of new countries in particular requires a very different approach from that which you have just put forward. one of the great challenges we face is the explosive growth of the flow of illegal refugees. you only offered border control, police cooperation and an enhanced asylum procedure. this is extremely depressing. europe must develop its immigration policy rapidly so that people from the rest of the world can come here to work in a completely legal way. it is wrong and cruel to treat poor immigrants as undocumented laborers with no rights. one of our internal challenges is the discrimination and incitement of hatred against minorities, such as homosexuals, which the european parliament has addressed twice this year and asked finland, as the finnish presidency, to address. you didn't say anything about this. why would you do that? where's your leadership? will you take forward in the council the decision to combat racism and xenophobia? you also spoke of openness, which is welcome, but your speeches are contradictory. finland announced in advance that it would promote transparency, but in the finnish newspaper this weekend you say that you do not intend to increase transparency. today you spoke about the development of internet search services. so what's your line on transparency? is it just cutting back on technology or is it developing transparency in decision-making itself? (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, i would like to thank prime minister matt vanhaas for his comprehensive presentation. i would particularly like to share his concern about the justification for the existence of the union, its legitimacy. the actual failure of the constitutional treaty in the referendums reflects not so much the profound control of the law by the citizens as the mistrust and distrust of the european union. there's a reason for this. the sheer volume and meticulousness of eu legislation, the abundance and inefficiency of bureaucracy and the accompanying over-control make the union repulsive. that is why the prime minister's pledge to make a special effort to improve legislation is important. i agree with prime minister vanhanen that the union must focus on the essential and be effective in that. with regard to the constitutional treaty, finland has an excellent opportunity to take the initiative and show real leadership by starting consultations on the extent and content of its further development. the eu's success in international competition requires strengthening competitiveness. research, development and training are key. i hope that the presidency will be able to quickly produce legislation and programmes to enable the limited resources of the financial framework to be used. finally, i would like to mention agriculture, although it was not specifically mentioned in the programme. it is practically the only policy area where the eu directly determines the level of income of a private citizen. it is also dependent on our largest industry, the food industry. i hope that the presidency will succeed in defending our agriculture in the wto negotiations, where it is under fierce attack. at the same time, i hope that the conditions for sustainable and competitive agriculture will be safeguarded throughout europe, including in the outermost regions, in line with the decisions of the european council. i wish my home country, finland, every success in its presidency.
in recent discussions, mr president, i have heard two definitions of the finnish presidency. the first stated that if the eu did not reverse its course in the next six months, the finnish presidency would have been a success. the second definition states that finland's main task is to prepare the way for the german presidency. but that is not the case. finland has much more to offer europe and europeans. russia and energy are areas in which finland has particular expertise. the eu must take the biggest step forward in these areas. we are totally lacking a common policy on russia and we cannot negotiate with russia on an equal footing until we have a common policy on russia. mr president, you have also rightly pointed out that there are many things going on in this parliament which must be carried through to the end with dignity. these are, for example, reach and the financial regulation and many other things which are in their turn the small steps that will take the eu forward. you also mentioned enlargement, which i regard as one of the most important issues and a major challenge. it is impossible to push forward too rapidly, against the will of the people, enlargement and the constitution at the same time. the question of romania and bulgaria will be raised during the finnish presidency and it is important to show the citizens that the criteria are being respected. this is of course still underlined, particularly in the case of turkey. the criteria must be met if citizens are to have confidence in the eu. what the citizens expect most, of course, is action and vision. the old idea of why the eu exists is no longer enough for citizens. it is therefore time to create a new, shared and determined vision of what the eu will be in ten or twenty years' time. this is a matter which i think is particularly appropriate to be launched during the finnish presidency. it will certainly not be completed, but it is important to start it if this link between citizens and the eu institutions is to continue in a positive way. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, most people in this chamber feel that the credibility of the union in the eyes of its citizens needs to be improved. the finnish presidency therefore wants to promote confidence-building measures that are relevant to the everyday life of citizens. citizens have a right to expect crossborder cooperation in all areas of life, including, for example, the fight against crime, and not just in the internal market. criminals move from country to country and network across national borders. on the other hand, there is no communication and no mutual trust between the police authorities of the member states. the criminals have a long head start. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr president of the commission, i would like to make three points. the first thing i want to talk about is the presidency. the presidency needs three things to succeed. first of all, you have to prepare it well. the finns have once again prepared excellently. second, it must be objective. finland will once again be a good and objective presidency. and you need a little luck with the agenda, and i think you have a little luck with that. the second point is about openness. i am making a concrete proposal for the gulf summit. i propose that the first three speeches, that is to say, those of you, the president of the commission and the president of the european parliament, be shown to us all in full view of the cameras. i will make the third and final point in english in order to get it across: it has to do with competitiveness and football. there is an interesting correlation. in the world cup the more competitive you are in football, perhaps you are slightly less competitive in the economy; the more competitive you are in the economy, the less competitive you are in football. my proposal to prime minister vanhanen for euro 2008 is: please keep the finnish economy competitive and push our team through to euro 2008 as well. those two things can go hand in hand. good luck to the presidency.
mr president, counterterrorism has eroded human rights and the protection of the privacy of ordinary citizens in europe and beyond. the helsinki union's recent human rights report states that the human rights situation has deteriorated globally over the past three years. the eu must act on the basis of the fight against terrorism by legal means and in accordance with international and national law. i would like to end by quoting my favorite american author, thomas l. friedman, and his book, "the world is flat". america's role in the world has been as the country that looks forward, not back. one of the most dangerous things that has happened to america since 9/11 under the bush administration is that the united states has gone from exporting hope to exporting fear. if that's true it's very dangerous.
president of the council. as prime minister vanhanen has said here today, the finnish presidency considers it a very important objective to create an area of freedom, security and justice in the european union. in this respect, the presidency intends to also assess, in the context of the review of the hague programme, how the decision-making process on police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters could be enhanced. on 28 june 2006, the commission presented the 'expanded scoreboard' which assesses the state of play of the implementation of the hague programme and whether eu legislation has been implemented in the member states properly and within the agreed timetable. the commission also adopted a communication containing proposals for improving the content of justice and home affairs policies and the decision-making process. as the president of the commission has stated, the commission is ready to make proposals to take advantage of the possibilities offered by the treaties to adapt the decision-making procedures. finland intends to discuss these proposals in depth and thus respond to the request of the european council of 15 and 16 june to finland to examine, in close cooperation with the commission, the possibilities of improving decision-making and action on the basis of the existing treaties in the area of freedom, security and justice. the ministers for justice and home affairs will hold a preliminary discussion on these issues at their informal meeting in tampere on 21 and 22 september 2006. the debate will continue at the october and december council meetings and at the december european council.
president of the council. we are now trying to make a contribution to this, mr president, because the time has clearly come for closer cooperation between the police and the judiciary. as i said in my original reply, this evaluation of the implementation of the hague programme is under way and we are seeking to intensify union-wide cooperation in this sector.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to warn you that this is a rather complicated question and an even more complicated answer. as the questioner points out, the 11th conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the first session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol were the starting point for two new forward-looking processes: the establishment of an ad hoc working group on the additional obligations of the parties to the kyoto protocol listed in annex 1 and the dialogue on long-term cooperative action to address climate change by enhancing the implementation of the convention. the dialogue itself does not yet open negotiations on new commitments. the first workshop under the convention's dialogue provided an opportunity for all parties to present their ideas on how to promote development goals in a sustainable manner by addressing adaptation actions and exploiting all the opportunities offered by technology and the market. this was the first of four workshops and the beginning of a longer process which is due to be completed by the end of next year. a number of ideas were put forward on future action which need to be dealt with in more detail. the workshop's leaders, australian howard bamsey and south african sandia de wet, will report back to cop12 and have promised to have a report by august 2006. the ad hoc working group started to examine the additional obligations of the parties to the kyoto protocol listed in annex 1 and drew up an initial work plan for the coming years. while noting that the discussions of the ad hoc group address the additional obligations of the parties listed in annex 1 as set out in the amendments to annex b to the kyoto protocol, the report of the working group also stressed the importance of keeping in mind the work in progress and the relevant outcomes of other bodies and processes under the convention and the protocol. the second session of the ad hoc working group shall be held during the second session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol with the objective of further developing the working group's action plan. in the meantime, the parties listed in annex 1 are invited to submit by early september information on any topics they may wish to present at the second session, such as emission developments, mitigation opportunities for policies and technologies, and the costs and benefits of reducing emissions. the working party plan shall be accompanied by a non-exhaustive list of subjects, drawn up by the chairperson on his own initiative and responsibility, which may be relevant to the future work of the working party. these topics include the scientific basis for the definition of additional obligations, the scenarios and risks associated with those obligations, the costs and impacts of adaptation, the evolution of emissions and socioeconomic factors, the potential of policies, measures and technologies to mitigate climate change, the costs and benefits of mitigation, sector-specific analyses and impacts on competitiveness, the experience gained and lessons learned from the implementation of the kyoto protocol, the duration of the obligation periods, the sector-specific approach, the structuring of future obligations and the additional frameworks for technology development, deployment and transfer. in summary, the 24th meeting of the subsidiary bodies established a solid foundation for both processes. the situation will be reassessed following the 12th conference of the parties in nairobi, which will address both of the new processes already mentioned and will carry out the first review under article 9 (2) of the kyoto protocol.
president of the council. mr president, it is not yet possible to go into detail on this cost-benefit calculation, but of course it is essential to have a proper balance between the measures and the benefits they bring. i hope that during this process there will be active contacts with the european parliament, because the parliament has shown a very active interest in these climate issues, which is very welcome, given the importance of the issue for the future.
mr president-in-office of the council, i greatly appreciate your expert answer to the previous question. i would like to continue on this subject, because the council is now represented by a presidency which has a lot of practical experience of its own in the key instrument chosen by the eu to prepare the kyoto protocol, emissions trading, negative experiences: distortion of competition, disruption of the electricity market and the fact that a party that has done its job well and taken early environmental action may end up being a payer. therefore, where the commission continues to promote emissions trading as a success story, finland would have the opportunity to bring it back to the surface. will finland do so and what improvements would you be prepared to put forward to correct the problems of emissions trading?
in answer to the question about a stable labour market in the european union, you said that the council is considering all aspects of immigration policy. we have recently have heard and read about terrible things happening not just in the canary islands but also in spain and about what is happening in the labour market in fruit and tomato farms in southern europe. has the council discussed this form of modern slavery and is this an issue that will be raised at the social summit later this year?
you have now had one hour’s experience of answering questions from the european parliament. at the end of the presidency you will have been here several times and obtained more experience – you have done very well during your first question time – would you be willing to give your practical recommendations to the council concerning question time? for instance, in december could you analyse what we could do better during question time? somehow we have to make these occasions rather more open to our citizens. some people will even watch this on the internet or on euronews. somehow it must be improved. i would like to hear your practical recommendations at the end of the presidency. would you be willing to do that for us in question time?
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. madam secretary! commissioner, what is it? the fact that the western balkans are being encircled by a visa wall is a tragedy for these countries, whose citizens have been able to travel freely in western europe for 20 years. for those of us who can travel freely, it is almost impossible to understand what it means to be suddenly placed behind a visa limit. it not only prevents people from moving; it also prevents ideas from flowing across borders. in today's knowledge-based economy, mobility is as important as access to modern information technology. therefore, visa policy in today's globalised world cannot be the same as it was in the 1950s or even the 1980s. this must be our starting point when the eu formulates its visa policy. the union needs a clear plan for how to simplify the visa procedure and eventually abolish the visa requirement, as minister paula lehtomäki also said. it is necessary to make clear to our neighbours the requirements they must meet, both in order to enjoy real simplification of visa procedures and to see the visa requirement abolished one day. we must be able to promise them that the visa requirement will be abolished when less than two per cent of visa applications are rejected. i welcome the objectives of commissioner franco frattini, they are very good. but an obvious objective of the eu's bilateral visa agreements must be to facilitate mobility for all, not just for certain categories. we send the wrong signal if we put people into different categories, like students and cultural figures as opposed to parents of small children and farmers. no, everyone should have the right to breathe the european atmosphere. it is problematic that the agreement with russia, for example, is so narrow. it applies to too few people, less than one tenth of travellers, and does not simplify visa procedures in practice. even the fee won't go down. in the name of the liberals, i call for a more ambitious visa policy, real simplifications for the balkans, real simplifications for all citizens and a clear objective to abolish the visa requirement. it is necessary to make it faster, cheaper and easier to obtain visas, and the european parliament must have a say in the negotiating powers that are now being worked out.
for the verts/ale group mr president, as the rapporteur, mr corbey, has said, this is a breakthrough. it's welcome and i'm glad. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission has even failed on many occasions to inform parliament of its decisions. the european parliament recently challenged the commission's right to exceed its powers in the comitology procedure. the matter was raised at the initiative of the greens in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety after the commission had exceeded its powers by granting a derogation to the banned flame retardant deca-bde. now, there are two ways to solve this case. parliament shall have the right to veto future comitology decisions by a majority of its component members. this deca-bde case was corrected at the end of june when the commission actually circulated this decision, which means that this dangerous substance is leaving electronic equipment. i'm glad you did.
first of all, i want to thank you for the timeliness of this presentation. as electronic communications spread rapidly, it is very important to pay attention to the freedom of expression on the internet. freedom of speech is a very important issue. it must be done in all circumstances, but it must also be remembered that freedom of expression carries with it a special responsibility. we must ensure that there is no material on the electronic network, the internet, that is against humanity, human rights and democracy. special attention should be paid to children and young people, who are the most valuable asset of our societies. their name is 'today', so we, the decision-makers, must strive to ensure that they can access the internet for factual and relevant information and avoid anything that is against sustainable values and the protection of human life. freedom comes with responsibility. it is good to remember this in our day, when the central theme often seems to be "value new", worthlessness.
for the verts/ale group mr president, the question is whether or not we want to protect the planet's climate and the future of humanity effectively. when you burn one kilogram of gasoline or diesel, you emit more than three kilograms of carbon dioxide. co2 emissions from transport have increased by almost a third since 1990. this cancels out a large part of the emission reductions in other sectors. from 2003 to 2004 alone, emissions in europe increased by the equivalent of three million people driving around the world. the european automotive industry will not achieve the emission reductions it has promised for cars by 2008. it is therefore important to increase incentives for low-emission cars. the commission's proposal is not the best possible in this respect. the car tax rates vary widely between member states. in all countries, the abolition of the registration tax is not an improvement for the environment. studies in the netherlands show that the most effective way to guide consumers towards low-emission choices is a carbon-dioxide-scale registration tax, such as the one in force in denmark, among others. in finland, the car tax specifically punishes the buyers of low-emission cars. in order to ensure that tax changes actually reduce emissions, it is important to oblige member states to ensure that when they make national tax changes, they are environmentally friendly. if the registration tax is replaced by an annual consumption tax, it should be more heavily dependent on co2 emissions than proportionally. emissions other than co2 shall also be taken into account. in addition, the tax should also apply to streetcars, i.e. the so-called n1 vehicle category. overall, the best solution would be to combine the emission-scale registration tax with the annual user tax. the greens think that this should also be possible. the export of cars from one country to another and the related tax rulings can be handled in other ways by compensation.
madam president, i would like to thank you. you guys! many finns have been surprised that finland can maintain a traffic tax that has made it almost impossible for citizens to buy cars abroad and forced them to pay much higher prices than others. the car fleet in finland is therefore one of the oldest in europe, which means old-fashioned safety solutions and less environmentally friendly cars. that doesn't make any sense. there is therefore a strong case for more uniform taxation of transport in the union, and i therefore welcome the commission's proposal. it is important that we have a road tax based on the pollution of cars. in this way we can reduce carbon dioxide emissions and acid precipitation. in fact, pollution from cars is one of the main sources of pollution in the baltic sea. a uniform taxation of transport also means a better functioning of the common market and competition. as i said, new cars are safer too. so we're gonna kill more flies with one stone. i therefore believe that parliament should give its strong support to a restructuring of road taxation, support so strong that the national governments cannot ignore the signal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank mrs riis-jørgensen for the excellent report which you have presented here despite your travel difficulties. the more difficult air travel becomes, the more obvious it becomes that the car is a necessary means of subsistence for most europeans. the current situation, where the car is one of the most difficult objects to move within the union, is unsustainable. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply the principle of equal treatment to all workers in the transport sector. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the same rules to all types of motor vehicle. for example, in finland, a country with long distances and few inhabitants, the car is not a luxury but a necessity for working people and their families. in order to renew the european car fleet and to make cars more environmentally friendly, it is appropriate to reduce the taxation of car acquisition, to abolish the registration tax and to compensate by tightening it moderately and in a regional balance, taking into account the taxation of car use, including on the basis of fuel consumption and emissions. the road network in our country is a record-breaking old one, already falling into disrepair in other eu countries. the taxation of cars should also be shifted to the provision of tax incentives for safety-enhancing devices in the interests of road safety. of course, there is no point in talking about car taxes unless you talk about fuel taxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. moreover, recent studies show that the co2 emissions of diesel engines are lower than those of petrol cars. this must be taken into account when tailoring reforms. the environmental impact of road transport must be considered as part of the wider transport policy of the union, but there has not been enough real discussion about the compatibility of car taxation, fuel taxation and road infrastructure charges. we could use it.
this is an important debate and it is important that we show solidarity with the citizens of the countries affected by the fires, especially the spanish. however, i would like to take a fresh look at the suffering that finland has experienced this summer as a result of the large-scale forest fires in russia. over a million hectares of forest have burned in russia, with the worst fires occurring near the finnish border. when the wind blows from the east, the smoke haze has come to finland. they have not been just odor problems, but very bad health problems. the finnish national institute of health estimates that this will cost finland tens of millions of euros in health costs and indirectly, in the worst case, will eventually cause the death of some finns. russia must comply with international agreements and parliament must demand that the commission take action and negotiate with russia to ensure that it also complies with these agreements, that it provides adequate information to its neighbours, that it is prepared to accept assistance and that it takes adequate measures itself. now it so happened that when the finnish prime minister offered russia help, it refused even to accept the help. this situation cannot continue and the commission must therefore take action.
madam president, i should like to make a point of order about working to the agenda. i contacted the sittings secretariat at approximately 11.15 this morning. i was told that my speaking time would be postponed until 9.00 this evening. as soon as i found out that my name had appeared on the list, i printed out my speech, ran to the elevators and came here, because i noticed that i needed to be here before 9 p.m.! of course i understand that i cannot use my speaking time now, but i really regret that the sittings secretariat informed members so late that the debate would continue and not end at 11.30, as it was supposed to. that is not the way to treat colleagues in this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is about the credibility of the eu's climate action. according to deutsche bank, only five of the emission allocations published by the member states for the next period fulfil the key criteria. we all know that in order to protect the planet in the coming years, the major developing countries must agree to limit their emissions. how can we imagine that they will agree to this if the eu does not respect its own kyoto commitments? the united states is watching what we do, too. so far, the eu's actions have encouraged those americans who want their country to join the international climate action, but if we betray our kyoto commitment, it will help the climate action opponents in the us and elsewhere. the commission must now be determined to require eu member states to comply with the key criteria for emissions trading. unfortunately, one of the first member states where the government has bowed too much to the demands of the polluting company already in the first emissions trading period is finland. i urge the commission not to allow such a 'finlandisation' to spread.
i have to start by admiring the commission's capacity to answer detailed and difficult questions on smes in greece. the best thing we can do as regards small and medium-sized enterprises is to liberalise markets and, in particular, to implement the four basic freedoms that already exist. my question is can you please guarantee to us today that you will resist the pressure that we are under from many, especially german, trade unions to further water down the services directive, which was the subject of such a nice compromise between the council, the commission and european parliament?
mr president, first of all i should like to thank mr bowis for his work. and i am not just referring to this report, but to all the effort and enthusiasm with which he has spoken in favour of european mental health work. i have been a member of parliament for seven years and throughout that time john bowis has consistently remembered to raise this issue. for me, he is an encouraging example of a politician who pursues his vision of a better world with determination and loyalty. the only way things will change is not to be subject to chance and to political winds or trends, but to know what you are aiming for and to do it. mental health issues are things that are easy to keep quiet about. these diseases still carry a strong stigma and even discrimination, which in the worst case may prevent access to treatment. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. the road to adulthood is more rocky than ever. the growth is characterised by increased social uncertainties. it is good that the report recognises the need for early intervention and the importance of prevention. in particular, in the prevention of mental health problems in children and adolescents, more needs to be done in the areas of preventive action in day-care centres, schools, day-care centres and school health services. a young person seeking help may ignore the whole matter for the simple reason that he does not know where help is available. in this case, the role of the immediate community, above all the family, is emphasized. school health and counselling, if properly resourced, has excellent opportunities to identify problems in children and young people and to provide early help. at the same time, for example, in my own country, where mental health problems among young people are becoming more common, statistics show that the parents of one in five children are working in non-standard hours. while group support at school can be of considerable help to distressed schoolchildren, support for families in the everyday life is crucial. the support of parents and the family community provides the foundation for good mental health. in dealing with youthful problems, resorting to medication should be a last resort. the main emphasis shall be on the elimination and identification of social and environmental factors. problems don't go away by not talking about them. depression has already been called the new european disease. twenty years ago, very few people under 30 were taking antidepressants, but now they are taking as many as older generations. failure to address youth mental health problems at an early stage and to address the need for easy access to help is paying too high a price. the commission's green paper's fine words and good intentions must be translated into effective legislation as soon as possible, and we in parliament expect to receive the proposal for a directive soon.
mr president, three minutes is a wonderfully long time. i would like to make three points. my first is that prolonging the negotiations will not bring any change to the fundamental differences between serbia and kosovo. one of them is in favour of autonomy, the other is in favour of independence. therefore i feel very strongly that we should stick to the timetable and time limits envisaged by the contact group and have the issue settled by the end of the finnish presidency at the end of 2006. we must stay firm on this. the second point i wanted to make is that, much like mr posselt, i see no option other than independence, with some limitations on kosovo’s sovereignty, of course. it is important, in order to maintain stability in the region, that there is an international presence and most certainly that the european union is ready to maintain a significant presence for some time. the third point i wanted to make is that i think the western balkans by and large are a painful reminder of the weaknesses of our common foreign and security policy. i do not think we should repeat the mistakes of the past, and in that sense we must stand very firm in supporting the un special envoy, martti ahtisaari, whom i feel is doing an excellent job. i think that the eu’s best foreign policy is usually enlargement policy, and that is why it is very important to keep the prospect of enlargement alive for kosovo and in the western balkans in general. as a final point, i would like to make the observation that in 1999 the finnish presidency interestingly started with the then president, martti ahtisaari, negotiating peace in kosovo and the western balkans. i certainly hope that the finnish presidency in 2006 will end with a final settlement on the kosovo issue and with independence for kosovo.
mr president, reports on kosovo describe the province as a ghetto. a multiethnic community has not been achieved. in seven years of international administration, the various ethnic groups have been grouped into their own territories. one of the main reasons why, despite massive efforts, the standards have not been achieved is that it is home to one of the main centres of european organised crime. the international trade in human beings, territories and arms is rife in kosovo. this issue was not addressed as early as 1999, when the problem was identified, but only in 2005. however, the international actors involved in the programme now have far too little time and staff to deal with their many responsibilities. so we need to invest more in this crime problem. finally, i would say that now that the eu is also focusing on lebanon, it is worth considering how well we know what has happened in kosovo and whether there is anything to learn from it for this lebanese operation.
mr president, when i watched the news during the holidays, i felt powerless to face the daily human suffering. but we do not have to be powerless. we can do much. this is a real opportunity, as many here today have testified. the eu has taken important steps, and one important step was to find a consensus, a single voice, during the crisis. this one voice, one voice, is an important element if we want to be an important international factor in international politics in the future too. i would like to take this opportunity to thank and commend the president of the council, the foreign minister, mr judge, because his experience and expertise were instrumental in finding this one voice. we must continue to be a powerful political actor and we cannot be satisfied with a role of mere paymasters in dealing with the post-war devastation. we must be actively involved in the political process which is necessary to try to find a lasting peace in the middle east. i am convinced, mr president, that this broad-based international conference will receive the very unanimous support that is necessary to achieve lasting peace in the region. it is quite clear, as the minister for justice has said, that there is no need to organise a conference immediately, but that it will take time for the parties to be ready for it. but now the courage and determination are needed to seize this opportunity to bring about a lasting peace in the region. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, mr minister, the second part of the question was not answered at all: what is to be done if the country on duty does not want to take part in such an operation at all?
mr president, the main conference on health policy for the eu presidency was held in finland a week ago. its guiding idea was that public health can be promoted through political decisions in all areas of life not just health. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of health care, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken this approach. this week we are voting without the reports on improving quality. that is precisely the kind of preventive health work that needs to be done by all the political blocs. our decisions on transport, trade and industrial policy, the environment, town and country planning and social policy always have implications for public health. the best investments are made where health risks are avoided in advance. the european union has a treaty mandate to act in all policy areas to this end. (applause) i would like to thank the
on behalf of the pse group mr president, i agree with the rapporteur, mr corbey, that this directive is nowhere near achieving the objective of good air quality. it is good that small particles, those tiny pm2.5 particles, are included in the directive and that binding limit values are also set for them. the limit proposed by the commission and supported by the council is 20 micrograms, as has been stated here on many occasions. it has also been stated that parliament is tightening this to 20 milligrams. this is a good thing, but if we compare this proposal with the needs, for example, of the who, which would lead to a situation where we would no longer cause harm to human health or to the resilience of nature, this threshold is too high. the who recommends 10 micrograms, and as noted here, both the united states and canada have already reached 15 micrograms. air pollution is one of the most important environmental problems in europe and people are exposed to it. there are 360,000 to 400,000 premature deaths listed here. whatever the number, it's very large. the limit you set can really affect how many lives you can save. if this who recommendation were to be implemented, the number would be several tens of thousands of lives. the limits proposed now will only lead to a few thousand deaths. however, parliament is tightening the limit with these smaller particles, which i think is a good thing. however, i do not think it is a good idea to extend the deadline for implementation, and i hope that it can still be improved. i'm the presenter of the sixth environmental action programme last term. it also set relatively ambitious targets for air quality. the goal was to no longer cause harm to human health. it is now clear that this first legislative thematic strategy to achieve the objectives of the sixth environmental programme will not achieve the objectives set out in the sixth environmental programme. this will also water down the targeting we have achieved in the sixth environmental action programme.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, air pollution kills more than 300 000 europeans prematurely every year. environmental health experts have criticised the commission's proposal as shockingly weak, but will the european parliament now give rise to even greater consternation? the majority of the committee on the environment is in fact proposing to weaken existing legislation. the committee would postpone the entry into force for more than ten years and double the number of days on which pollution limits may be exceeded from 30 to 55 days a year. the pretext was that in the distant future the annual limit would be lowered from 40 to 30 micrograms per cubic meter. this improvement is apparent because the current limit, if not exceeded more than 35 days, is already in practice an annual value of 30 micrograms. it's a lie that there's no health benefit to exceeding the daily limit. on the contrary, more and more heart patients are admitted to hospitals when daily pollution levels are exceeded. the reason given for this scandalous proposal by the committee on the environment was that the member states could not do better. but the member states themselves have tentatively agreed in the council on a stricter model, with a postponement of only three years. after this preliminary agreement by the council, the three largest groups made a more refined compromise proposal, which would still delay the entry into force of the standards more than the council of ministers. it has been terrible to see how the negotiators of certain groups have taken their instructions from the car industry, and it is a shame that the largest groups in this parliament are subject to the lobbyists of the car industry. i urge you, ladies and gentlemen, not to accept the proposal of the committee on the environment, or of mr weisgerber and others, to postpone the entry into force of the legislation, but to defend the right of citizens to breathe clean air.
mr president, i should just like to point out that mr titford from the uk independence party just gave one of the most passionate arguments for a european constitution: he was supporting the initiative of one million europeans and that can only be legally binding if we have a constitution. i would like to make three points. first, congratulations to mr ferber on a wonderful report. it was a good idea to postpone the discharge report because of the lack of clarity regarding the relationship between the city of strasbourg and the european parliament. i fully support the content of the report and how it has been written. we dealt with that in the committee on budgetary control, where the report was adopted with 25 votes in favour and only one against. the second point is about the blame game. it is true that both parties should be blamed: parliament’s administration, which was perhaps a little naive, and the city of strasbourg. there is no denying it. i agree with mrs mastenbroek and mr busuttil, who said that the city of strasbourg has worked with us in bad faith. my confidence in the workings of this city has gone down. my final point concerns whether this report and the seat of the european parliament are somehow linked. they are not, but at the same time it is a matter of how we use money. as in a marriage, it is important to talk about sensitive issues. i fully realise that this is a sensitive issue, but we must remember that it is not only the rent. the truth is that us coming here costs eur 209 million of taxpayers’ money every year. that is a waste and i support the idea put forward in the ‘oneseat.eu’ campaign of having only one seat. let us talk about it openly and try to find a solution, but separately from this report.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, lifelong learning and education are an important part of the lisbon strategy. it is an important part of european competitiveness. education also aims to provide citizens with jobs. education is a matter for member states to decide, but if the eu and its member states want to guarantee jobs and competitiveness for their citizens, it is necessary to take all citizens into account and invest in lifelong learning. two things in a nutshell. special attention should be paid to middle-aged women and secondly to teenage boys. middle-aged women are disadvantaged because they do not receive adequate education. this leads to them not getting jobs either. the second thing i want to bring to your attention is teenage boys. across europe, a growing number and a large proportion of teenage boys are leaving school at primary level, leading to unemployment.
for the alde group mr president, commissioner, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr beazley, for this excellent report. this is a very important question. we must ensure that our children and young people have not only a regional and national but also a european dimension in their identity and thinking, and that they understand the community of values and the spiritual heritage to which they belong. despite its mosaic nature, europe shares common values based on christian values. values are also based on the hellenistic heritage and roman law. today, they are manifested above all in the form of democracy, human rights and freedom of expression. it is important to teach these values to children and young people from an early age, to promote them and to make them a part of our education, so that we can understand what it means to be european in an ever more integrated world and be proud of it, of our national roots and of our continent.
mr president, i should like to make three points. firstly, i think services should be open to competition. that is why we are here and why we have european integration. it is clear that member states cannot sustain their welfare systems without the help of the private sector. this whole debate is about having specific public services of general interest. it has happened in a country near my own, finland, formerly the soviet union. it is absurd to think that services of general interest can be provided only by the public sector. i should therefore like to promote public-private partnerships. we should draw some lessons from the debate we had on the services directive. my second point, then, is: no framework directive! there is no basis for it. i do not want the commission to come up with anything, not even a consolidating document. it falls within the competence of the member states. it adds no value whatsoever. face the facts: the commission’s study makes it clear that there are huge differences between what we consider to be a service of general interest in finland, for instance, and what is considered to be a service of general interest in france. this debate is a smokescreen for monopolies and for protectionism. that to me is completely anti-european. finally, i wish to second what my polish colleague mrs handzlik said. what is the right solution? it is clear that we must have a sector-specific approach. we have to go sector by sector, focus on cooperation and have clear priorities: healthcare, postal services, water and gas services and so on, but without a directive. let us stay clear of it.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr camiel eurlingis. he has done a good job and has even produced a rather bold report which, in its own way, says that the pace of enlargement is far too fast. there is still so much to be done with regard to turkey that in ten years' time membership will be unthinkable. mr president, i was pleased to read this morning that commission president barroso said that it was not wise to continue enlargement until we had dealt with the constitutional question. i couldn't agree more. we cannot simultaneously pursue such a large-scale enlargement with turkey and pass a constitutional agreement. we should listen with a much more sensitive ear to the opinion of the people, to the thoughts of the people. in the light of what happened in the french and dutch referendums, we should take into account the opinion of the people on this matter. we should also consider how far and how fast the eu can expand. if citizens are not given an answer to how fast enlargement is going to happen, they cannot trust the eu as it is. it's a pity that commissioner rehn left the hearing. i would have asked him what plan b is if we go ahead at a fast pace and turkey is about to become a member in ten years' time and there is a referendum in france, for example. if the people say no, then membership cannot be accepted. what is the plan and how will we proceed in order not to let the turkish people down and the whole project collapse into another surprise 'no' vote in the referendum? but maybe the answer to this will come later. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, commissioner, the trading of emission allowances has led to an increase in the price of electricity in europe in general, and also in the price of electricity not produced with emission allowances, i.e. nuclear and hydroelectric power, which has led to additional profits for these producers. the nordic countries have a common electricity market and the price of emission allowances has been transferred directly to the price of electricity on the electricity exchange. it has also moved to the price of nuclear and hydroelectricity and generated additional profits for nuclear and hydroelectricity producers. when the allocation is reviewed, will the commission take action to address these extra profits that emissions trading brings to producers?
member of the commission. mr. member, the commission's position in the case was that which was expressed before the court and the court has ruled. in this respect, both formally and legally, we are in a given procedural situation. it is therefore for the commission to resolve and verify whether the judgment has been fully implemented, whether repayments have been made, whether careers have been restored. that's the job, and that's the way we're going to do it. what measures will be proposed, if any, is a matter which i consider to be still open at present. i think the basic principle is to respect the legal framework of the european union, the european community, and the commission has always been very consistent in this respect. she made her position on the case clear during the hearing.
member of the commission. mr president, during the course of the proceedings, the commission has always maintained that the 2001 judgment implies an obligation to achieve a result as regards the actual recovery of the salaries and social security contributions due to former lecturers. it also questioned the criteria used in the decree with the force of law 2/2004 to reverse the career progression of lecturers. however, the court of first instance at that time decided or found that it did not have sufficient evidence to show that the judgment had not been complied with. it took into account that the italian universities had submitted information that payments, or at least some payments, had been made. the court did not address the question whether the certificates had been submitted by the universities and not by individual lecturers. ladies and gentlemen, in this situation, the court's decision is final and it is for the commission to examine the relevant facts as quickly as possible and decide on the next course of action. whether this procedure will be a reopening of the process, whether this procedure will be a different form, that is an open question. i can only assure you that the length of this process seems to me personally to be extremely long and i think that one of the essence of legal certainty, one of the very important components of legal certainty is that satisfaction comes in a reasonably reasonable time. not immediately, since some cases are complicated, but within a time frame that can be considered reasonable.
member of the commission. the question you asked is very important for the commission and all the european institutions. the proposal we got from the council consists of two parts: one part relates directly to the 2007 budget and the other relates directly to the seven-year period from 2007 to 2013. i should like to elaborate on the consequences in your question for both elements of the proposal that we got from the council. firstly, with regard to the 2007 budget, the council has reduced appropriations by eur 56 million. that means that the commission would not even be able to maintain the current level of staff, while the council has approved 801 new posts for new members for enlargement. however, it refused to grant the corresponding appropriations for paying salaries for those positions. it would make any recruitment impossible, from either new or old member states. it also will not allow the commission to replace its staff who will retire during 2007. that means that the real labour force will be reduced by about 420 people. no recruitment will be taking place at all with this proposal for 2007. the question was also about agencies. for 2007 the council also proposed to cut agencies’ appropriations by about eur 29 million. the second part of the proposal consists of reducing posts for the seven-year period. the council’s proposal has two parts. firstly, every second post becoming vacant would be deleted from each institution’s establishment plan. i have heard rumours that it is proposed for all three institutions – parliament, the council and the commission. secondly, the commission would have to delete 500 additional posts, justified by the council by the concentration of programmes and new managerial approaches. for the commission that could cost up to 2000 positions during the seven-year period; for other institutions, such as the council and parliament, about 200 positions. at the request of the european parliament’s committee on budgets, in early september i signed the working paper with all the detailed technical explanations and financial figures about that proposal. if you like, we could provide you today with that package for your information, in order to study the question in more detail. the consequences only for the commission will be a loss of close to 2000 posts, which means close to four dgs. it is also approximately half of the positions that have been given for enlargement during previous years. it does not take into account at all the fact that the commission already started administrative reform on its own premises in 2002 and its ongoing reform. it also does not take into account that the european institutions are not national governments and the specific tasks which parliament and council perform are different. as an example, the european commission, as a public civil service, is the cheapest public service in the world. in our budget all three institutions – the council, parliament and the commission – only take up about 5% of the budget for administrative expenditures, while in most of our member states they take up four or five times more. we cannot agree because the proposal does not take into account the geographical balance. we need to keep within the requests of the council. it does not take into account linguistic diversity, which we also need to keep. none of these things is taken into account. finally, we evaluated this as an attempt to reopen the debate on the interinstitutional agreement, which we signed just four months ago.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for your detailed reply. i would point out that the commission has also provided the members of the committee on budgets with written material on this subject, which will clarify the matter after the question has been put. i would also like to ask, as a supplementary question, whether the commission is free to allocate existing posts between the various central administrations by its own decision without having to make a separate budget decision between the budgetary authorities in the council or in parliament. can the commission freely transfer posts from one directorate-general to another?
member of the commission. we carry out redeployment every year; each year we redeploy approximately 400 people internally. but here we are talking about posts without the preparations to pay salaries. inside is part of our so-called productivity gain programme, which was introduced in 2002 as part of the reform. if the priorities change, we redeploy internally: that is the normal yearly practice.
member of the commission. yes, in 2003 parliament and the council agreed to allocate 3400 new posts for enlargement in the four-year period between 2004 and 2008. each year we have been receiving these posts, together with payments for the salaries. this year we have again been offered 801 posts by the council, without any addition for the salaries. we are not magicians and we cannot magically pay for 800 posts from nowhere.
mr president, commissioner, i hope that this question on the administration of the commission will give me the opportunity to raise a follow-up question on a subject on which i have been contacted repeatedly over the last few years. the commission's administrative practice is always characterized by the unfortunate fact that payments for scientific projects are very late. this is particularly the case if a researcher or scientist comes to brussels at the invitation of the commission, for example, to evaluate research and science projects. the researcher pays his travel and hotel expenses, contributes his work and may have to wait several months before the commission reimburses these costs and the work done. today i've been informed that this has been going on for five months. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, as india's largest trading partner, the eu has a natural interest in the development of the country's economy. well, the news has been good lately. india has a strong economic growth, a commitment to reduce child labour and is one of the most active users of anti-dumping measures. india is also seeking to reform its financial sector and plans to remove restrictions on the rupee. the ongoing eu-india human rights dialogue has also started in an encouraging way. the national human rights commission of india has been working very closely. at the same time, there are some worrying developments. the gap between urban and rural life is widening and the environmental burden is increasing. nearly 400 million indians, about a third of the country's population, live on less than a dollar a day. forty percent of the population is illiterate, and the enormous economic growth is very unevenly distributed. the country's continued caste-based discrimination contributes to unequal distribution and even to the erosion of economic growth opportunities. the worst affected are the unbaptized dalits, whose rights are not sufficiently monitored by the authorities. i appreciate that the world's largest democracy is actively seeking to correct the shortcomings that are being observed in society through its legislation. the so-called positive discrimination is an example of this. but legislation is not enough. implementation must also be encouraged. good policy decisions should also be systematically put into practice by local authorities. if this situation continues, a large part of the potential and talents of the indian people will remain untapped. i also make a serious request to the council to put the situation of the underprivileged, environmental problems and disaster preparedness in india on the agenda of the eu-india summit in helsinki. the energy dialogue launched in the spring must also be continued, as the key determinant of india's future economic growth is its ability to meet the rapidly growing demand for energy.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. – mr president, i am pleased that mr ransdorf has incorporated many of our committee’s suggestions into his report. it is clear that nanosciences and nanotechnologies represent one of the fastest-growing industries of the 21st century. nanotechnology has the potential to have an impact on a number of industries and it has a predicted market of nearly one trillion euros within a decade. however, europe has been slow to realise this potential and thus holds a small market share in research and development and education and, as a result, industrial innovation in this field. it is imperative that the eu adopt this plan to support nanoscience development, education and vocation within the member states. furthermore, an emphasis on nanoscience and nanotechnology is critical to reaching the goals set by the lisbon strategy. with regard to the report, i should like to highlight a few goals that have been incorporated and identify an important point that unfortunately has not been addressed adequately. firstly, nanoscience and nanotechnology is permeated with ethical issues. as such, i am pleased that the report has included our committee’s suggestion to maintain high ethical principles and has welcomed public reviews on non-therapeutic human enhancement and privacy. in addition, i support the commission’s proposal to respond to the dynamic nature needed for proper regulation in this field. secondly, the proposal has a strong emphasis on patents. reform, as well as global incorporation of the patent system for nanoscience and nanotechnology within the member states, is crucial to europe’s success in this field. reform must include a decrease in cost for the patent process, as well as an increase in accessibility of patents for smes. furthermore, to promote global compliance with patent recognition and protection, we should emphasise the importance of fulfilling wto regulations, especially in china. however, protection of intellectual property rights, both internationally and within europe, has not been developed sufficiently in the report. member states are called upon to coordinate actions regarding ipr and act within oecd and unesco. this is too weak to protect ipr in this field. these organisations deal more with promoting good practices than with ensuring action. thus, real standards could prove more effective. with strong growth projected in the field of nanosciences and nanotechnology, it is important that the eu accept the commission proposal to adopt new approaches to this industry, from education to r&d. such actions will contribute to heightened competitiveness and development in our member states.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr minister, the finnish government has wanted to host an eu summit in finland, which was probably intended to spread the good news of finland's good competitiveness to others. the passage of time has brought other matters to the agenda, and to finland's delight, the russian president will attend the dinner of the heads of state. in this context, the investigation into the murder of journalist anna politkovskaya should be mentioned as a test of the functioning of the russian rule of law. (applause) i would like to thank the the eu's right-wing forces, who swear by neoliberalism, want to break and destroy good education systems and good social security. finnish government, tell these neoliberals in the eu that public services are the secret of finland's good competitiveness. please also say that the liberalisation of the electricity market in the nordic countries has led to an increase in the price of electricity and that the state should take responsibility for energy security instead of marketing it. do not say the name of the lisbon objectives in vain. the eu will not be the world's most competitive knowledge-based economy in 2010. the economic system based on hope reminds me of mr hrutshov, who half a century ago at the un promised that the soviet union would surpass the united states in living standards within ten years. our group does not understand the finnish government's efforts to ratify the dead eu constitution in finland. the finnish government, you are lying on your backs in front of the forces of foreigners, just as you did when you demanded that the eu should decide by qualified majority on common criminal laws. you are destroying the historical memory of nations. give my regards to the prime minister, mrs. leafy. the final lines of the presidency are to be held high. dare to have your own opinion for once, instead of being a warm-up band for the next bigger presidency than finland. i would say to mr barroso that in many cases the implementation of his fanciful ideas lacks a proper legal basis. there's room for a lot of thought.
mr president, my home town of lahti will be the scene of a major event when it hosts the eu summit. the city is also ideally suited to the gulf, which has long been a centre of excellence in environmental technology, since energy cannot be discussed without energy efficiency. the most effective way to increase energy self-sufficiency rapidly is to improve energy efficiency and savings. in our energy dialogue with russia, it is also worth noting that it is not politically wise to increase further the eu's energy dependence on russia. in the face of the climate challenge, all possible means are needed all low-emission energy must be promoted. it is high time to dismantle the contradiction between renewable energy and zero-emission nuclear power. that contrast is not real, it's more between the ears than in practical energy. i have asked the finnish minister for trade and industry to include the revised terms of accession of bulgaria on the agenda of the lahti conference. i refer to the unfair and unnecessary decision to close four of the six reactors at the kozloduy nuclear power plant. looking at the criteria for the decision today, it can be said that the condition imposed on bulgaria in helsinki seven years ago has become obsolete. it is also unreasonable in the light of the objectives of the european energy policy. improvements have been made and the council working party itself has certified the power plants as meeting safety requirements. still, we have to close by the end of the year. if finland does not tackle the problem now, it will create an energy shortage not only for bulgaria but also for its neighbouring countries, whose electricity needs bulgaria has been supplying for the last five years. the commission's claim that these reactors could not be economically improved has been shown to be false. kozloduy generates electricity at less than 2 cents per kwh. the shutdown can only be partially offset, and it's happening at lignite power plants, the dirtiest source of energy there is. eu grants are thus used to help the transition from cleaner to dirtier technologies. it's madness. in calling for a review, i am not asking for the contract to be cancelled, but for it to be revised in the light of the latest information, so that the closing date can be adjusted. why should bulgaria increase its greenhouse gas emissions when it has a proven safe alternative?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who speaks of finnishisation here may be thinking of himself. whoever speaks can have a long way to go to reach the level of finland as a democracy and economy, because we are at the forefront of europe. (applause) i would like to thank the this is hard work. follow me. the theme of the gulf is investment and innovation. they are also finland's priorities. the union's contribution to research and development is totally inadequate. only two countries have achieved the barcelona objectives, one of them finland, the other sweden. i am ashamed of the shortsightedness of the european leaders. europe is at the same time in a constitutional crisis and mentally impotent. we're not doing well in many areas because our research output is lagging behind our competitors, and soon the east will catch up with us. the urgent need is to build an efficient and uncomplicated european research area of high quality from this fragmented field of science. we can do this together. we are, by the way, in the twilight zone if we cannot put innovations into practice quickly. when it comes to the establishment of a european institute of technology, the project lacks both money and direction. i would say, as rapporteur, that this is a matter of innovation and the implementation of innovation. it's about improving our standard of living. we consider russia a strategic partner and we will renew the partnership and cooperation agreement. the shocking murder of journalist anna politkovskaya is not the russia we want as a better partner for the european union. he fought against corruption and violence. that's what the government of this country says they're doing. why was politkovskaya not protected? these death threats were known to all. this difficult matter must be brought to the bay. europe is becoming increasingly dependent on energy imports. the addiction is growing fast. i propose that, where we have the problem of operational reliability and russia has the problem of good customers, the problem of long-term contracts to invest in energy infrastructure, a big deal is made and both these things are done at the same time. the market will thus be opened in russia and the european union under the same rules, i.e. the energy agreement will be ratified in the same package. in this way we will create energy security for both parties and, of course, for ourselves in particular.
ladies and gentlemen, russia's energy resources and our desire to secure oil and gas supplies must not cloud our view of the deterioration of democracy and civil rights in russia. civil society is really in a tight spot there. after the murder of anna politkovskaya, this should be clear to everyone. the violations of human rights, the abuse and even the murder of people are not limited to the political opposition but also to the minority nationalities, of which there are dozens in russia. marikansa is one of them and the european parliament has also taken note of the violations suffered by her. the national conflicts are also linked to the murder of anna politkovskaya. he was murdered because he told the truth about what was happening in chechnya. the day after the murder, thousands of finns gathered in front of the russian embassy for an unprecedented candlelight demonstration. i hope that the finnish government, as the presidency of the eu council of ministers, will express to russia the same level of shock and concern that we feel. human rights issues must be placed at the centre of russian relations.
mr president, listening to mr landsbergis’s football fan club giving him applause, i hope the fan club of the finnish national team in a european state called kazakhstan is as strong as his, because we are 25 minutes into the match and it is still 0-0, so we need a little bit of help! first of all i support the finnish presidency and its agenda for lahti. with regard to external energy, you know what you need to do: you need to thank mr putin for the fact that it is actually on the agenda, because at about this time last year he was squeezing the ukrainian pipelines a little bit and that is the reason we are actually talking about it in lahti. so give him a big thank-you when he gets there. second, with regard to innovation, this is not product placement but the truth is that we spend about eur 4 billion a year on innovation and research and development. that is less than nokia spends on research and development per year. i hope that makes the leaders of the european council think. my third point relates to eu-russia relations. it is funny to listen to the debate here, apart from the murder case, of course. sometimes it seems to me that we are much quicker to criticise the united states than we are russia, and perhaps in the latest case we should deal with russia as a superpower much like the united states. i want to support the president of the commission very strongly on eit. i think there are a lot of misunderstandings around the concept. it is a network which i think would work quite well. everyone agrees on the problem, now it is a question of how we are going to find a solution. i think we need public and private partnerships, much like the mit in the united states. in that sense i hope that this initiative of yours will go through. finally, the problem with informal european councils is that you usually get very few practical things out of them. president-in-office, if you come out of that meeting with three things, i think it will have been a success. one: a green light for the eit; two: some patent legislation, or at least a promise to have it; and three: a common energy policy. if you do not get these results i think future informal european councils will be as empty as this chamber is today.
mr president, the council of europe is the most important european human rights agency, even after its creation. the council of europe has wide powers of control and monitoring. the agency we are dealing with is quite different. the agency's role is not to supervise the member states but to provide them and the union institutions with information and expertise. the bureau is a service organization whose mission is to assist us. the agency should never be country-specific, nor should it investigate individual important events or breaches, as the council of europe does. however, mr president, it is important that the eu should have such an independent fundamental rights agency, the human rights agency. and it is important that it cooperates with the council of europe. i would also like to stress that at a time when all the eu member states are increasing police powers and are considering and consolidating measures in the fight against terrorism, it is important that we also look at the functioning of fundamental rights and human rights. i also think that the activities of this agency should be extended to the third pillar, covering police cooperation and criminal justice cooperation. however, in order to move forward, this cooperation, police cooperation and criminal justice cooperation, could, in my view, be implemented in a more limited form, as proposed by the commission, so that it could be adopted. and, mr president, in the long term, the eu must also remedy the shortcoming of its action, namely that the eu does not intervene in human rights violations in its member states. we don't have the mechanisms. we know that human rights are not functioning in the best possible way even within the eu at the moment, and these issues should also be addressed, and not always just look at what is happening outside the eu. it is important to monitor and respond to human rights violations where they occur, but the eu and the member states must of course ensure that the human rights of their own citizens and those of the citizens living here are respected.
mr president, the interpretation of my speech in finnish yesterday was misleading and, in some parts, even contradictory to the original message. i find it very regrettable, especially because i had sent my speech in advance. it is a pity that even during the finnish presidency these kinds of mistakes take place. as much as we love to speak our own mother tongue and we are proud of it, these kinds of mistakes do not leave us much choice. therefore i would ask my colleagues to read my original arguments on the requested closure of certain units in the kozloduy nuclear power plant in bulgaria when the final and accurate translation is available.
for the alde group. in a short time, we, the shadow rapporteur, together with the rapporteur, have approved all the necessary legislative proposals to extend the schengen area to the new member states. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr coelho, and the shadow rapporteurs for the very good consensus and the good result of our work. the crumb in the cup is the timetable. despite our best efforts to dismantle internal borders as quickly as possible, the schengen enlargement will be delayed. how much is still up in the air. we in the liberal group do not think we have received sufficient answers from the council and the commission as to why there has been a delay which, moreover, threatens to be long. every citizen who is waiting to be released from internal border controls has the right to know where the problem lies. we therefore propose that the commission immediately set up an independent inquiry into the reasons for the delay. the schengen area is one of the most successful projects of the eu. the abolition of internal frontiers is a very concrete matter for the creation of a common european identity. it could be said that this is one of the union's most fundamental tasks. during the sis ii examination, the introduction of biometrics, i.e. the entry of fingerprints into databases, was perhaps the most controversial issue. the two-step biometric solution has been successful. in the first step, only fingerprints would be used to confirm a person's identity. the second step would be to enable searches with biometric features. i am convinced that biometrics should be used only with great caution and discretion, but in the sis ii system, the use is relatively uncontroversial, since this database contains for the most part data on persons wanted by the authorities. what is much more controversial, however, is the use of fingerprints in the future common schengen visas that the new member states will also issue. in most cases, these are tourists, relatives, and businessmen who have never had any problems with the authorities. for the visa system, the deployment of biometric features is a much bigger issue, both technically and administratively, than in sis ii. that's about taking the fingerprints of 20 million people every year. it would therefore be important for governments to consider, at least initially, not to leave fingerprints outside the system. otherwise there is a great risk that schengen enlargement will be delayed in this important area too, and we really do not want to be part of that.
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking my colleagues who have worked on these very difficult dossiers. i welcome the spirit in which the implementing measures for the ‘transparency’ and ‘prospectus’ directives were formulated, after the very tough mifid procedure for which i was the rapporteur before the spring break. it is extremely important for the european parliament to be able to have confidence in comitology, especially now, after the july decision. we are delegating a large part of our decision-making powers to the commission and we want to ensure that the legislation enacted in the lamfalussy process gives the best possible technical quality, as well as democratic legitimacy. however, for parliament to get rid of, for example, the sunset clauses – which is the wish of the commission –we still need more guarantees on the improved procedure of the comitology decision and on parliament having full influence on the second-level measures. for the record, mifid is a very important process and will certainly do far more than many people think for the financial services sector. it is also a good example of the influence parliament can have. industry and the market participants want us to use our powers more and people really respected the changes parliament was making with that report. i think the same thing will happen with the ‘transparency’ and ‘prospectus’ directives. it is very important that the european parliament strengthens its powers in those areas. through this we will be able to give more support to the community. sometimes there is unnecessary gold-plating by the council. it has put forward proposals which are placing the single market at risk and i think that the community’s soldiers – the commission and the european parliament – should march together on these issues, as it would benefit the single market.
mr president, the number of cancers will increase sharply in the coming years as europeans age. the question of the availability of resources and the rising cost of treatment is a concern to many. it is a question of economic growth and also of the increase in the cost of living for patients. ensuring equal treatment for citizens in health and medical care is an important policy issue both within the member states and at eu level. care must be taken that age does not reduce the right to services and good care. the next point is the integration of patients into working life. i understand that with the economy growing, it's important to get people back to work. this is often important for us patients as well. most of us patients are just normal people. however, when reintegrating into working life, one must also remember the humanity. it is important to mankind that each person be given ample time to recover from illness. it is important to remember that the recovery time varies from person to person.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many thanks to the rapporteur for his excellent work. i would like to protest against the statement by commissioner špidla that breast cancer is an obstacle to a normal life. it doesn't have to be this way. i am living proof that breast cancer, if detected, cut and treated early, does not in any way interfere with normal life and work. finland is one of the countries in europe with the highest incidence of breast cancer, but thanks to screening and treatment, the mortality rate has not increased for decades. however, it is not enough to develop screening and treatment methods alone; the causes of cancer must also be addressed. mr breyer and mr corbey said that new research suggests that up to half of all new breast cancers may be explained by environmental factors, some of which are industrial chemicals to which we are exposed all the time. the cocktail of hormone-disrupting chemicals is especially dangerous during fetal life and puberty. we have to do something about this.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – mr president, i should like thank my colleagues, mr elles and mr grech, who have done considerable work on the eu budget for 2007. in general, although i support the approach of our rapporteurs, in the final analysis we must guarantee sufficient funding for common foreign and security policy and we must find a solution to the funding of the agencies. however, the ongoing negotiations can only be based on a mutual understanding that all sides abide by their earlier commitments. i address this to the council in particular, which has repeatedly proposed extensive budget cuts in areas of great importance to the european parliament. on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, i should like to raise a few points that unfortunately have to be raised every year. the principle of gender mainstreaming is enshrined in the amsterdam treaty, which requires a gender equality perspective not only to be applied to measures designed specifically to promote equal opportunities, but also to be incorporated into all policies at all levels of the budgetary process by means of gender budgeting. since 2003, when this house adopted a resolution on gender budgeting – that is, building public budgets from a gender perspective – the fact that public budgets, including the eu budget, are not gender-neutral and have a different impact on women and men has been taken into account. a gender budgeting approach should be used to assess and restructure all pertinent budget programmes, measures and policies, as well as to determine to what extent resources are allocated in gender-equal or -unequal ways and ultimately achieve gender neutrality, where equal consideration is given regardless of gender. when the finnish minister for social affairs and health, tuula haatainen, addressed our committee in early october, she highlighted the mainstreaming of equality policies in budgetary planning and evoked the finnish example of seeking to ensure that all items, not only in the national, but also in the eu budget, take gender equality policies into account. i certainly hope that the finnish presidency will succeed in this respect.
for the ppe-de group mr president, i would like to thank mr grech, the rapporteur for the budget of this parliament. it was a pleasure working with you and making compromises as your shadow. i congratulate you on the good result we have achieved. first of all, we must remember the principles on which the budget is based. first of all, we must be careful about how we use taxpayers' money. the second principle is that we spend the money on what is necessary. you don't have to do everything that's fun and interesting, but you have to do what's really necessary. the 20% increase principle has not helped. this principle sometimes leads to madness, like the show on internet television. internet-tv is intended to be parliament's own tv channel. the funds used for this are certainly not justified for the taxpayers. the second finnish minister of finance's speech in brussels at the beginning of the presidency is an example. the speech was broadcast on television to all europeans, but only 14 interested viewers from all over europe were found, half of them being the minister's own assistants. if we are investing tens of millions of dollars for a handful of reasons, then the money is in the wrong place. it would be more effective to use this money, for example, to bring in small local and regional newspaper reporters who would then report on parliament and what is happening here. people read these magazines, but they don't watch this internet tv. we need precise estimates and monitoring of all budget lines, and this applies in particular to building policy. i am glad that we have found common ground, because the buildings in strasbourg have become a scandal and we do not need that kind of publicity any more. this is why we must be much more careful about how we spend money.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr commissioner, i was going to say mr minister, but i did not say that either. a virtual version of the eu budget is being processed. after the council's deliberations, the level of payment appropriations was 1% of the member states' aggregate gross national income. parliament raises the payment appropriations rate to 1.04 per cent at its first reading. this is done by adding to the proposal appropriations which can be called virtual because parliament has not been in the habit of keeping its additions to the last. the council has been a regular winner in the negotiating sessions. the credibility of parliament will suffer if it happens again. our group demands that parliament stick to its own priorities. the rapporteur, james elles, has been innovative in finding those appropriations where the commission has not implemented the budgets of previous years. we support the rapporteur's line that some of these funds should be reserved and released only after appropriate clarifications. our group supports the right of the new member states to have their own nationals in the commission too. we cannot therefore support the reductions in the commission's staff proposed by the council. the public authorities, including the european union, can act as a catalyst in various economic processes. on the other hand, the same money can also be used for administrative projects by the eurocrats, which in fact undermine citizens' trust in the union. that's the way the prince program has been. this is what the so-called three-d project, plan d, is all about. there is a danger that parliament's own internet television channel will also become one. our group does not support the appropriations of the commission and parliament which are used to produce euro-propaganda, and we do not want the militarisation of the eu with the resources of the community's foreign and security policy.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur-general for the budget, mr elles, for his excellent work in preparing the budget. he has shown a very deep knowledge of both the eu's activities and the management of its funds. his approach has been reasoned and courageous. i would also like to thank mr grech for his good and responsible work and mr lewandowsky for his good leadership of the committee on budgets. the 2007 budget is the first to be prepared under the new financial perspective. it also provides initial funding for new programmes and final funding for old commitments. the budget situation is moderate. it remains within the framework of the financial perspective and does not even envisage the introduction of the flexibility instrument. yet it has clear priorities. i think it is quite right that the appropriations for training, research and development have been increased. we need to get more than a pile of paper around the lisbon strategy. the conditions for business must therefore also be further improved, which means a clear strengthening of the competitiveness and innovation of the cip programme. these are all objectives of my own group, among others. the northern dimension and cooperation in the baltic sea region have long been highlighted and their development has been considered important. my group has tabled two amendments, nos 492 and 493, which add to the reasoning of the budget lines for the transeuropean road and gas networks that the funds may also be used to finance projects implementing the strategies mentioned. i would like to see sympathy for these amendments.
i am asking my question as the father of emily, who turns five on friday, and oliver, who will be two and a half. oliver is not yet surfing the net, but emily already is. i fully share the views put forward by the commissioner and the previous speakers about protecting youth, but can the commissioner guarantee that we are not starting to impose restrictions on our general use of the internet, because the last thing we want is a headline to the effect that the european union is preventing us from using the internet freely?
commissioner, when you say that the european commission takes the human rights situation in iran seriously, when is this issue discussed in other dialogues with iran? we now have a dialogue about the nuclear programme in iran. is this issue addressed in those negotiations, or in the negotiations on trade issues? this is a serious matter and i do not think it is enough to say that we are trying to get back to the negotiating table on human rights. this has to be put on the agenda in all dialogues with iran. when do you intend to do that?
mr president, firstly, i should like to thank our rapporteur, mrs gröner, for her excellent work on this report. i am sure we all agree that young people are vital to shaping the future of europe. i do not believe that we should concentrate on debating whether young people should be supported through eu programmes. there is clear evidence that programmes for young people and students are the best path of eu action for true integration at the citizen level. nevertheless i should like to raise a few points. first of all, the budget allocated for the programme still seems to be insufficient. i know the hard work the commissioner has done, but i still hope that in the final budget for the future years we could see improved numbers. secondly, i strongly support lowering the age to 13. providing opportunities at a young age encourages initiative in later years. i do not think that 13 is too young to participate in ‘youth in action’. something else that would enhance the programme is the expansion of the list of countries with which youth organisations can cooperate, to include as many countries as possible. countries such as china and russia are key players in world politics and economics. forming close ties with those countries at an early age can only be beneficial. another factor to consider is the importance of enhanced mobility. it would be a vital step to ease the current visa regulations in countries outside the schengen agreement. far too often student exchanges, ‘work abroad’ programmes and school trips have to be cancelled because of the difficulty in obtaining visas. sometimes the complicated procedures and high prices even discourage starting a project. to ease that situation i call for standardised documentation in all eu countries for obtaining visas. we should also try to support the ‘get visible’ campaign, which suggests a separate visa type for ngo representatives. that would significantly enhance the possibility of young people participating in volunteer work programmes, exchange programmes and youth organisation work. the youth in action programme will end in 2013. it would be short-sighted of me to say that that will be time enough. however, it is a good start. i truly thank you, commissioner, for all your hard work on this issue.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr commissioner, i would first like to thank everyone who has taken part in the debate on this report, in particular the shadow rapporteurs and the members of the other committees who have commented on it. i would like to thank in particular my esteemed colleagues and coordinators, doris pack and christa prets, because as a member of the smallest group i would not have been able to obtain this report without your support. i am also grateful for the good spirit of unity and cooperation which you have shown in our committee. the programme comprises four actions. the first is a europe of active citizens, which includes friendship activities and citizenship projects. the friendship programme has already proved to be a success story and i hope that this programme will enable this success story to continue and be further strengthened. citizen projects are also very important. one of the key ideas behind this programme was to bring a grassroots programme to the european union, which would not be elitist and which could also be felt by the so-called common people, the citizens of the european union. the second action is active civil society in europe. it will provide structured support to the eu policy research organisation and european level ngos and support to their projects. i think it is very important that the role of the community colleges and the vocational colleges, the non-degree-based organisations, should also be strengthened, because they are precisely the organisations which are best able to reach the grassroots level of the ordinary people. i hope that this programme will also be opened up to people in the european union and that they will feel close to it. the third action is a common europe, high-profile events, research, information and communication. as we know, it is important to promote the european union, to bring it to the attention of the people in the right way, because there are also shortcomings in the field of information. people feel that decision-making is very far away from them and that is why they feel that the european union's programmes are distant. we have a lot of work and a lot of work to do to bring the union closer to people, also through information and various events. a fourth action was added to the programme, namely the preservation of active heritage in memory throughout europe. this measure was discussed very intensely in our committee. finally, we came to the conclusion that, when this action was moved from the culture 2000 programme, it is precisely the memory of nazism and stalinism that we must cherish so that similar horrors and atrocities can never be repeated in europe. we believe it is very important that future generations also understand what european identity is, what peace is, what stability is, and that is why it is important to take care of an active memory. it would of course have been desirable to have kept the budget up to date when this programme was being drawn up. we know, however, that for some reason there is not enough understanding of cultural projects and their importance at the moment in the european parliament, or at least in the european commission or in the council. i believe that our culture and civil society are the foundation on which an active and prosperous economy can also be built. we who are cultural people, who are members of the committee, must ensure that the budget can be more effective in the future. we now had to cut it down a little from the commission's original proposal under pressure from the council, but i hope that this will give the programme a start and that it can become a success story in the future. finally, i would like to thank the commission, the council and parliament for the cooperation and the understanding that they have shown. i am particularly pleased that ngos, civic schools and amateur sports clubs have been included in the programme. i hope that when this programme starts at the beginning of 2007, it could become another success story. (applause) i would like to thank the
for the ppe-de group mr president, mr prime minister vanhanen, mr president barroso, the assessment of the lahti meeting can certainly be based on the fact that the outcome of the meeting will receive a commendable grade. the starting point for the meeting was not easy. many newspapers, especially the esteemed financial times, painted a rather dark cloud over the meeting in advance. the paper argued that it was a high risk to invite russian president putin to the meeting, as the eu is fragmented and divided on both energy and russia policy. according to the newspaper, this would be nothing more than a victory for president putin. but it was different. it was great to see the eu leaders acting in unison and speaking at a dinner in the form of a 'me'. i have often called for a united, united and long-term eu policy on russia in my speeches here. the first steps have now been taken in this respect. it also shows citizens that the eu can act on difficult issues. of course, we must admit that we still have a long way to go before things can become concrete and before russia ratifies the energy charter, which opens up the market and follows the common rules of the game. this was a small step, but it was a significant step towards a unified long-term policy for russia. it was also important that the issues of human rights and the murder of journalist anna politkovskaya were dared to be discussed openly and without any circumvention. we cannot sacrifice human rights on the altar of energy policy. the debate was also open on the part of president putin, although he did not change his position. i don't think anyone was expecting that. cooperation can only be based on mutual trust and a common will. the door has now been opened to deeper cooperation on energy and other issues. what i missed in my dinner conversation with putin was the baltic sea issues. this would have been a great opportunity to raise the baltic sea problems with russia. i do understand, however, that one dinner cannot cover all the issues. the general conclusion of the lahti meeting is that 'prime minister vanhanen has done well'. (applause) i would like to thank the
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr prime minister, mr commissioner, the lahti informal summit was originally convened to discuss eu competitiveness and innovation policy. the european council in brussels in december 2000 was a major event in the history of the european union. the eu orchestra invited russian president vladimir putin to perform in lahti. they wanted to talk to him about energy. at the same time, the opportunity was provided to discuss the human rights issues in the country. human rights and media freedom cannot be ignored in assessing russian policy. but on those issues, it cannot be agreed with - just as another great power on the other side of the atlantic cannot agree with anyone else to stop torturing prisoners of war or to try us citizens for war crimes in the hague. president putin wants a strategic partnership between the eu and russia. the strategic partnership between nato and russia and the institutional solutions put in place to achieve this are all in the back of mind. in this context, russia is ready for an energy dialogue and even a legally binding document. however, it was not clear whether this would be a case of opening up the market in both directions or only in one direction. and if it's one way, it's either way. the gulf crisis did not resolve the issue and it will be considered again at the eu-russia summit in november. the bay meeting was like a prelude to that meeting. finland's presidency gets gas from russia cheaper than other eu countries. the electricity supply to industry and households is also the lowest in the eu. harmonising the eu electricity market means raising the price of electricity in the country represented by prime minister vanhansen, and in few countries is the prime minister happy about such a common energy policy. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the eu. this is something that all european federalists are happy about, but it is not democracy or democracy. the eu elites are speaking with one voice today without consulting the peoples.
mr president, the extraordinary summit in lahti must be considered a success. the eu had a joint message for the russian president on energy policy, democracy and human rights. but this conversation is only the beginning. as the president of the pse group, martin schulz, has said, concrete action is now needed. the commission will be able to take action on this issue in the near future when it starts negotiating the eu-russia treaty. it was important at the gulf meeting that we talk to russia and not only about russia. it was good that the energy debate included the future. although it seems that the short term priority is energy availability, it was good that attention was also paid to the future. fortunately, it was left on the lahti agenda for this innovation section. as regards energy policy, our challenge and our answer to the problems of the future lies in innovation, in how we use renewable energy sources and develop technologies that save energy considerably. we must achieve a long-term reduction of co2 emissions of between 60% and 80%, and this can only happen if we as europeans have a real common will to invest in renewable energy sources and energy savings. the social europe was also on the agenda in lahti, but not on the agenda of the summit, but in a separate conference on the labour market. employment and its improvement are very important components of the european union's competitiveness and this must be clearly demonstrated at all meetings.
mr president, finland was criticised at the informal eu summit for inviting president putin to the meeting. the invitation to mr putin was justified, as one of the topics of the meeting was the eu-russia relations. putin was invited to the gulf as a guest, but not as an honorary guest. the finns did not fall into a hostess trap in their courtesy, but instead highlighted the murder of anna politkovskaya, the human rights situation in russia and the deficient state of russian democracy. some people suspected in advance that these things would not be brought up. the dialogue between the eu and russia is important. finland has borne and continues to bear its own responsibility for its maintenance. interdependence between russia and the eu is a good thing, if it is used correctly. europe needs a market in russia, because russia is close by and in a fast-growing economic area, but russia also needs the eu.
president putin! what are you doing? we are concerned about developments in russia. your comments about georgia at the summit do not alleviate this concern. many of us in the eu want to see a successful russia. a continuation of a world based on democracy and justice. we want you to help us who want you russians well, but you don't. we must envisage a common free trade area and we must work for free movement. but, president putin, how are we supposed to do that when you're flexing your muscles against little georgia? how can we do that when you have not approved the border agreements with estonia and latvia? how are we supposed to do that when you're denigrating anna politkovskaya's work? our cooperation must be based on common values and rules of the game, but now, unfortunately, after the summit, we feel that we are further apart than before.
mr president, without a doubt the lahti summit was a success for the eu. its focus on competitiveness and innovation was followed by a constructive dialogue with russia and the issue of human rights was also raised. our heads of state and government showed unity and reflected our common values. as the epp vice-president, michel barnier, said a couple of weeks ago in lyon, none of us can sit at the table of global decision-making as a national politician. this really is true and also applies to eu-russia relations. freedom of speech is in great danger in russia. in a very recent study by reporters without frontiers – where many eu member states held the top positions – russia was placed 147th out of 168 countries. i rarely agree with the president of parliament, mr borrell fontelles, but i have to say that he was right to emphasise strongly the question of human rights and democracy in russia with president putin. we must have a clear stance on human rights, whoever we might be facing. an independent and efficient investigation to find and condemn the vicious murderers of the courageous journalist anna politkovskaya is a real test for freedom and the rule of law in russia and for its relations with the eu. the democratic world simply cannot stay quiet when freedom is threatened and its strongest advocates are shot down. if we do not act now, we might lose another 30 years of freedom, as did our hungarian citizens when the western world did not act bravely enough to support the people who rose up in revolution 50 years ago. practical cooperation with russia is important, but nothing is more important than the progress russia makes on the path to freedom and human rights.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the message from science is becoming more serious: the more recent the research, the more serious the message it sends about the acceleration of climate change. we are approaching the threshold beyond which major catastrophes are irreversible. this is also what british foreign secretary margaret beckett said when she said that we are approaching climate chaos. at the same time, economic analyses show that even very ambitious emission reductions are very cost-effective, and in particular, they will be much cheaper than tackling climate change. citizens are becoming more aware of this, as reflected, for example, in the recent statement by the european trade union confederation (etuc) that europe must reduce its emissions by 75% by mid-century and the eu should not wait for others. in the united states, too, public opinion is changing. this is reflected in the huge popularity of the al gore movie, the extensive articles in the major newspapers on climate change and also on its potential solutions, the latest issue of scientific american last month on energy without carbon. this is where eu leadership is really needed. in the united states too, those who want to take responsibility for climate protection look to europe and are encouraged by what europe is doing. we have to be worthy of this trust. nor can we be content to wait and waste time in international negotiations. we must prepare our own constructive proposals for what the world will do after 2012. within europe too, we need to prepare our own emission reduction commitments and actions that are in line with the objective of not warming the planet by more than two degrees. we also have to implement our own kyoto commitments, and the emissions trading system is very important in that respect. i would encourage the commission to be firm. it is not enough to trade emissions, emissions trading must also reduce emissions in the way that the kyoto protocol requires. europe's business community also needs leadership. to invest wisely, it needs to set long-term emission reduction targets. wrong investments come at a very high cost. the power plant has a life span of 40 years. no more climate-hostile power plants should be built.
mr president, as we prepare for the next conference on climate change in nairobi, what is most urgently needed is honesty. it is true that we are proud of the progress we have made so far, but what is the outcome in terms of overall emission reductions? the world needs efficient climate policies that deliver and not unfounded complacency. we all know and agree that we need to move from one-sided eu climate politics to a global front, as only truly global action will lead to efficient emission reductions. therefore, for the sake of the climate and to really win the battle, let us be honest when analysing the problems arising from the kyoto protocol, as well as from the eu ets preparing for kyoto. i am afraid that the headlines have already been written: ‘nairobi was a success and the eu leads the way’. but is this the right way? understandably for the eu, it is politically important to stand in the front line and to show a good example, encouraging others to follow sooner or later. however, unless the front cannot be widened, the eu efforts will be like taking a few drops out of the ocean or having a haircut to lose weight. what makes this especially challenging is the effect that one-sided efforts have on the markets. in the global markets, this means giving the competitive advantage to the polluter, as the cost of environmental investments and emission rights cannot be included in the prices. the temptation is for the international capital of the global markets to be invested where there are neither emission restrictions nor environmental norms. a pollution shift is not a pollution cut. interestingly, the last conference on climate change in montreal was publicly described as a victory. looking at the results, however, there is not much reason to celebrate. in terms of emission reductions, not a single step forward was taken in montreal. there is no implication that the mitigation front would be widened. with the kyoto protocol, only a quarter of global emissions are controlled. that is not enough.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, it is clear that bold action is needed to improve the human rights situation in china. this recent incident gives us a clear reason why that should be a priority for the european union. i find it absolutely appalling that the chinese state media xinhua reported the shooting as self-defence, while video footage clearly shows the tibetan refugees were shot from a distance and in the back. no force, threat or resistance was offered to the chinese border guards. none of the refugees had a weapon of any kind, not even a knife. i would like to thank the finnish presidency and draw attention to its work in the human rights dialogue. last week, on 20 october, the finnish presidency issued an official statement condemning the incident. i would like to thank the presidency for that. finally, as indicated in the joint resolution on tibet, we must continue to encourage high-level talks between the dalai lama and the government of china. i would like to reiterate that this is the only way to find a peaceful and sustainable solution for real autonomy for the tibetan nation.
for the ppe-de group mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent and important work he has done and at the same time i would like to thank the commission for having embarked on this important task. in fact, commissioner borg organized a conference on maritime safety in my home town of turku last july to address these important issues. this is the right job for us to do together in the eu. i would like to draw attention in particular to the baltic sea, because the baltic sea is an important sea for the eu and the baltic sea is currently a disgrace. the baltic sea is really sick. an example of this is last summer, when the blue whale, with warm weather, overran the entire sea. it is difficult to explain even to your own small children who want to go swimming that you cannot go there because the sea is not only dirty but even poisonous. the sea is full of toxic algae, and children can get various diseases if they go swimming in the sea in warm weather. the commission and all of us are now called upon to take strong and rapid action and to provide sufficient resources to save the baltic sea. of course, this requires a lot of measures. one good measure that has already been taken is the financing of the st. petersburg waste water treatment plant. it's one of the most important. we also need a dialogue with russia, for example on shipping safety regulations. without cooperation with russia, we cannot succeed. saving the baltic sea is no longer just an environmental issue. it is above all a political question.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, it is no exaggeration to say that europe's marine areas are in crisis and that measures to protect them are urgent. over the next 50 years, fish stocks, among other things, are threatened with collapse. the commission's proposal for a marine environment directive and a marine environment strategy is a way of seeking an eu-wide integrated approach to saving marine ecosystems. although all seas are in a vulnerable state, it is sensible to consider marine protection from a regional perspective. the characteristics of marine areas vary and at least some of the problems are regional. the common feature of all marine areas is that they should all be able to achieve good ecological status within a specified period of time. hopefully, it'll be before 2021. the social democrats support the rapporteur's attempt to define what we mean by good ecological status of the marine environment. in order to achieve the defined good status, sufficiently stringent conservation objectives for pollution prevention and measures to support the recovery and return of the marine environment to sustainable levels must be established. these measures can be quite harsh, and i hope that the ppe-de will also support them in the vote. it is important that the measures are legally binding and not merely recommendations. the protection of the seas is a matter of cooperation not only between eu member states but also with third countries involved in marine areas. for example, effective protection in the baltic sea region cannot be achieved without a commitment to cooperation from russia. the cooperation has already been established for many years under the helcom, or helsinki agreement. the baltic sea protection programme is being prepared within helcom. in order to put practical measures into practice as quickly as possible in the baltic sea region, the protection measures required by the strategy should be initiated within the framework of the action programme drawn up by helcom. i thank both rapporteurs for having accepted this aspect in both the strategy and the directive part.
mr president, i would like to thank you. two weeks ago, nicholas stern, a former world bank official, published a shocking report for the british government on the effects of climate change. it was words, not visions. we must no longer judge nature as something without value. if we do, the consequences could be unpredictable. the same is true of the sea. we in the alde group have drawn up a number of amendments in the committee on the environment. they all aim to raise the level of ambition, to introduce tighter timetables, to strengthen cooperation with third countries such as russia and to close loopholes in legislation. a serious gap is, for example, the international waters that begin 12 nautical miles offshore. in the vulnerable baltic sea, mainly cargo vessels, but also passenger ships, continue to dump latrine waste directly into the sea. they can do that legally in international waters. out on the baltic sea, 1,800 ships are pissing and pooping all the time. this is unbelievable! we are pleased that the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs with whom we have worked are taking our amendment to review this loophole in the law. it must be possible to achieve this quickly, without the decision being stuck in the decision-making machinery of the imo for years. we must have a high level of ambition. the eu must support russia in its efforts to clean up all the waste water from st petersburg. it's gonna cost you, but not doing it will cost you even more. oil and gas drilling and pipelines should not be given priority over the environmental risks they pose in the name of the economy. the damage caused by traffic must also be reduced. i think the people want to see that the eu is really active in these matters of human destiny. only then can we strengthen confidence in the union. the aim shall be to protect and restore the state of europe's seas and to ensure that human activities are carried out in a sustainable manner.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the darkening of europe has affected 10 million people from germany to spain. the blackout is a good reminder of how tightly we are connected to each other through the electrical grid and how vulnerable we are at the same time. we still don't know why this happened. in practice, europe has a common electricity grid but no common energy policy to secure supply. a functioning internal market in electricity has not been achieved. and paradoxically, the more our networks are connected, the more vulnerable we become to disruption. although the purpose of network integration is to improve the security of electricity supply throughout the union, the negative effect is that potential problems are also shared. that is why we must above all ensure that our common networks are working, that the back-up systems exist at national level and that the system is monitored by a single authority. we need to have security standards, just like the commissioner said. the foundation for other energy crises was laid by the privatization of energy production facilities. governments used to own these companies and invest for the long term. now we're at the quarterly investment stage where we need to get the money back quickly, and so this long-term approach is not working. the commission has acted quickly, and i thank it for that. national transmission system operators will have to be obliged to cooperate more extensively and more openly in the future. the energy strategy report to be published in january will also examine the possibility of setting up a joint regulatory authority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's financial interests, and that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the member states.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, electricity is produced heterogeneously in the member states. some countries are key to cheap hydroelectric power, others to cheap nuclear power. in other lands, electricity is produced by burning ever-rising fossil fuels or by expensive wind power. the market is confused by the eu's emissions trading scheme, which was introduced in 2008 and whose future is unknown as of 2013. connecting the eu's electricity networks will not solve all the problems. harmonisation of markets has both winners and losers. there are many countries that are not willing to invest in the public grid or to pay a high price for electricity in order to make it cheaper in another country. i am glad that the commission's standard response this time was not to say that market harmonisation will solve all the problems, but to really try to find out what was at issue.
mr president, milk production is typically the production of the weakest agricultural regions. it has provided livelihoods and vitality in areas where other forms of agricultural production would be difficult or impossible. it has been able to take advantage of the good yield of bark in, among other things, barren areas. milk production is capital-intensive. the investment is huge. a modern production building can cost up to eur 1 million. however, it creates jobs mainly for family farms. milk production is quota-based. many young farmers have made large investments in order to acquire more production rights. it is not uncommon for production quotas to be bought for as much as eur 150 000. milk production therefore needs a long-term secure framework. you can't plan for eight years. the fixed system has created a balanced framework for the farmer to carry out production. price fluctuations have been small and the market has been stable. the abolition of milk quotas would change the situation all at once. large industrial units in the best regions of europe would be strong in terms of competitiveness. the diversification of the agricultural sector would be weakened. the large investments made by family farmers in milk quotas would suddenly lose their value. the milk market would lose its stability. all this would make entrepreneurship very risky and would particularly harm the livelihoods of the most vulnerable agricultural areas.
for the alde group mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr mulder and mr goepel, for an excellent report. voluntary modulation is a strange phenomenon, which has not been experienced before in the eu's common agricultural policy. the european council's conclusion that a member state may cut up to 20% of the farmer's direct payments and marketing payments was surprising and very poorly prepared. the european council decided that even export subsidies could be cut. fortunately, the commission did not join in this totally unrealistic proposal. firstly, the cut is not based on any objective rules but would be entirely dependent on the discretion of the member state. this would create inequalities among eu farmers and distort competition. this would be an arbitrary additional tax on farmers. secondly, it is important to note that the cut would not increase the rural development resources in the member state concerned. this additional funding would not be covered by the national co-financing required by the rural development regulation. a member state may use modulated money to replace and reduce its own national funding. it would therefore be a direct payment of agricultural aid to the minister for finance of a member state. how could the european parliament deal with the discharge of such a transfer? voluntary modulation would shift resources from compulsory to non-compulsory expenditure in the eu budget. that would force a change in the interinstitutional agreement. the council would therefore be breaching the interinstitutional agreement six months after its conclusion. the council would therefore not be a reliable partner in the negotiations, and for these reasons i welcome mr goepel's proposal that parliament should reject the proposal.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, the common legislation of the european union must be based on an analysis of where we are, what measures have already been effective and what further measures are needed to achieve the objectives we have set. in environmental policy, this approach is essential to focus on the most urgent issues. the european commission has promised to present a revised report on the sixth environmental programme this year. we haven't got it. nor will it be included in the action programme for the following year. but it would be a concrete instrument for assessing precisely where we are and what we need to do in the future. the commission announces that it intends to review the environmental technologies action programme next year. this is a good thing. there is also a need for areas other than energy technology development. our challenge is the chemicals legislation. harmful chemicals must be replaced with new ones. it takes technology. technology is needed to solve air quality issues. new technology is needed for material efficiency, and in this way we can also deliver on our promise of greater competitiveness. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, commissioner, our competitiveness and our well-being depend on our ability to develop sustainably. research and innovation will then be key. new energy efficiency technologies such as hydrogen, fusion, led lighting, solar and wind power are important. europe's energy consumption is increasing, even though it should be decreasing. you can't live like this. the high cost of energy is hitting the poorest of the poor. i think the commission should create a social programme for energy access for the poorest citizens. they say that without solidarity there is no union. i propose the introduction of an eu-wide solidarity barometer. in addition to the opinion polls and infringement procedures, eurostat and the commission should publish a broader comparative assessment of the member states. we need to know publicly and in a way that is easily comparable, how far the governments are keeping their promises, how much solidarity we have among ourselves. avoidants should be punished. would it be appropriate and necessary to publish a solidarity barometer? what is the view of commission vice-president wallström? at least it might increase the public's understanding. it is important that we pass the framework programme for research and development and certain other programmes in addition to all this. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, mr minister, you have now confirmed on two occasions the position of the finnish presidency that recognition of the armenian genocide must not be a new condition for turkey's membership. the commission agrees with this. is this the council's common position, i.e. has the council discussed and reached common conclusions on this legislative process in france on the armenian genocide? i would also like to know how the council intends to deal with the report on integration capacity, which was adopted yesterday by parliament's committee on the treaties and is due to be adopted at the december part-session.
however, mr president, mr minister, we have precedents where the council has brought to the agenda alleged or imminent human rights violations by one member state. when austria elected a new government, certain member states, on the basis of the government programme, worked through the sanctions against austria in the council. however, we are now dealing with concrete decisions taken by the polish authorities, namely the rejection of a fully valid application for funding from the youth programme on completely unjustified grounds. would the council not consider that this is at least as important a question as the austrian government programme of the past, which did not even lead to any concrete violations of human rights?
for the alde group mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues malcolm harbour and evelyne gebhardt for their good cooperation and many others. i would like to thank commissioner mccreevy in particular, because without his sensible cooperation this would certainly not have been possible. services are a key source of growth and jobs in the eu. between 1997 and 2002, about 96% of new jobs were created in the service sector. it is therefore important not to impose unnecessary national barriers to job growth. the services directive is a step in the right direction. i know that there are people in this chamber who are dissatisfied because they think that not enough progress has been made, but there are also those who think that parliament and the council have taken too long a leap. the proposal before us is a compromise, it is what was possible to achieve in this situation. the european parliament has been accused of undermining the commission's original proposal. however, the numerous sectors still covered by the directive are not mentioned. the services directive covers, amongst others, the construction industry, business services, installation services, trade and distribution, and tourism and leisure services, so the range is very wide. the aim of this proposal is therefore to liberalise competition and thereby also to reduce the price of services. the price of various services is a factor in demand, but just as important is trust. if the provider does things on time and well, trust will increase and the market will grow accordingly. it is not a directive, but the responsibility of the service provider. the free movement of labour is just as important for the eu's internal market to work as the services directive. during the period of enlargement to the east, only sweden, ireland and the united kingdom will allow citizens of the new member states free access to their labour market immediately. now that we are in the midst of another enlargement, there are member states again who are putting up obstacles. these new potential obstacles are very difficult and will make it more difficult to liberalise the internal market. they're a step back. if the services directive is a step forward, it would be desirable that the same could be done with the free movement of labour. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, two years ago i expressed my concern in this house that the examination of the services directive in some countries has also given rise to xenophobia and economic protectionism, which are not to the credit of this community. the luxembourg prime minister was wondering why we are now more afraid of people coming from the east than of missiles placed there 20 years ago. however, we have now reached a compromise through discussion which can be accepted, because this directive will finally open up the market in services, albeit only in part. mr president, the future directive seems to protect highly qualified professions and to expose less qualified groups to competition. doctors and pharmacists are excluded, but axemen and hairdressers are included. however, fears and prejudices fade over the years, as practice eventually trumps theory. it is also clear that the directive will be revised in the future to make it more functional and more transparent for all european citizens. we must learn that on this continent we cannot compete successfully with other continents if we do not dare to compete even among ourselves.
mr president, may i start with an observation as a francophone, which is that when mrs le pen of the french extreme right and mr wurtz of the french extreme left spoke, they both drew exactly the same conclusions. perhaps they should get married! today we have cause for celebration, a little bit of sadness and a little bit of hope. the reason for celebration is that we have actually got a services directive, which is indeed a step forward. i too would like to congratulate both mrs gebhardt and mr harbour on the work they have done. i think it should be called the gebhardt-harbour directive. i am also happy that the european parliament played a very strong role in this, and would like to congratulate the finnish presidency, mr pekkarinen, and especially mrs satu mäkinen, who has redefined what a tough finnish negotiator can be. the reason for my sadness is the following. i think the atmosphere in which we conducted the debate on the services directive was a little bit poisoned. it showed traces of nationalism and protectionism, and a hint of xenophobia, much as mr lehtinen has said. we talked about the bolkestein directive and the polish plumber etc., and at many times were working to reduce the scope of the directive instead of pushing it forward. that may be a little sad, because it meant we had lost a little bit of mutual trust. why hope? the reason for hope is that we can live with this directive. i think the key is that the member states can now start implementing the directive and the european parliament can follow up this implementation. i also hope that the european court of justice will interpret this directive in a liberal sense. i would like to end by saying that we should re-establish the trust there has been between the member states, and remember that in 1957, 50 years ago, we defined this union as being based on four freedoms, which are the free movement of services, goods, money and people. (applause from the centre and from the right)
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you for those kind words. i will try to be like a talkative finn and use a maximum of five minutes of your time. i would like to set three questions. first of all, what is this report all about? secondly, why are we tabling this report? and thirdly, what do we actually want? on the first question of what this report is about, it is about a baltic sea strategy for the northern dimension. i will stress that again, especially for the finns sitting across the table. it is a baltic sea strategy for the northern dimension, so the aim is to strengthen that concept. our thinking in this report is that the northern dimension is based on three wonderful pillars. one of them is what we call the paavo väyrynen pillar, in other words the arctic. the second is what we might call the mr paasilinna pillar, which is russia, and the third is what we would call the mr beazley pillar, which is the baltic and the baltic sea strategy. this report focuses on the baltic sea strategy only. the report has three aims. one: to support the northern dimension. two: to make the baltic sea a priority of the northern dimension – we firmly believe that should be the key area of the northern dimension itself. three: we want to raise awareness of the baltic sea as a brand, as a concept. why are we tabling this report and why are we tabling it now? the first reason is general, and it is that after enlargement in 2004 the baltic sea became an inner sea, a mare nostrum. we have eight eu states around the sea, one of them is non-eu, that is russia and then of course there is kaliningrad. but basically it is an eu sea. we have a wonderful window of opportunity for two reasons. the first is that we have the finnish presidency, which gives us an opportunity to push this issue forward, and the second is that we have an eu-russia summit on 24 november. that is why we wanted to push this through as fast as possible. for those who have not visited the baltic sea, i remember from when i was a child that in many places you could actually see the bottom of the baltic sea. the average depth is 58 metres. standing on the pier you could see to the bottom. it was clear. you could see the seaweed. it was a wonderful place to swim in. for those who have been there lately, it is green gunk nowadays. green gunk! it is really nasty. it is in really bad shape. oxygen levels are very low. you can see virtually nothing at all. it is time to react. 58 metres average depth! it takes 30 years for a drop of water to go in, and then out of the baltic sea, so the circulation is very slow. people from the mediterranean may have a completely different understanding of water. they see the mediterranean – clear, blue and wonderful. we see green and nasty. something needs to be done. this report also deals with the economy. it deals with culture and security. the third and final point: what do we want? one could summarise the report in religious terms, saying that we want the ten commandments of the baltic sea. the first commandment goes to mrs wallström and her team. it is that we want the commission to take an initiative on the baltic sea strategy. it would be wonderful if the commission could do that in one form or another. the second is for a summit meeting before every european council, where the heads of state and governments of the baltic sea region, including germany, get together and discuss their positions. third – and this has been an issue that has had overwhelming support among the people around the region, although there are one or two who disagree – we want a separate budget line. we may think the world revolves around money. but if you want to have a true baltic sea strategy, you need policies, and for those policies you need money. it is as simple as that. we are not saying this should be the only source. as in the case of the northern dimension, support could come, for instance, from the enp. the fourth commandment is environmental protection, for instance the idea of protected areas. the fifth is a rather topical issue, and that is an energy market and an energy policy for this area. of course i will not mention the pipeline between russia and germany in this instance. the sixth commandment is infrastructure. we need to work on infrastructure. that means water, air, rail and roads, to get the infrastructure to work well. seventh, we would like to see the application of all four free movements in the area, that is, the free movement of money, the free movement of people, the free movement of goods and the free movement of services. eighth, we would like to have good exchange among centres of excellence. we would like to have good student exchanges. ninth, and this is a pet subject of mr lax, we would like to have fluid border crossings. finns know the problems with that. tenth, we need the increased presence of europol. all in all, i ask for three practical things. one: a commission initiative. two: for the finnish presidency to bring up this issue as part of the northern dimension package at the eu-russia summit. four amendments have been tabled. as rapporteur, i will put a plus sign in my voting list on two of those, and that is the amendment by the greens and the amendment by mrs jäättenmäki of the alde. on the third one, which has to do with the arctic region, i suggest a split vote. on one part, i will certainly put a minus, on the other one i will put a plus. on the final amendment, by mr väyrynen, which suggests that there should be no separate budget line, i will put a minus and would ask most of my colleagues to do the same. that is what the baltic sea strategy is about, why we have it, and what we want. (applause)
for the alde group mr president, the northern dimension is becoming stronger in a very encouraging way. here in the european parliament we already made an initiative last year and now a special report on the baltic sea strategy in the context of the northern dimension. it consists of cooperation between the eu and its member states on the one hand and with russia on the other. the commission and the council, for their part, have negotiated agreements with russia, norway and iceland, whereby the northern dimension of the union's external relations policy becomes a common policy for these countries and the union. the agreements are to be signed in helsinki at the end of november. the commission should prepare as soon as possible the proposal for a baltic sea strategy requested by parliament. the strategy must cover all policy areas, both internal and external. it will require the input of all commission dgs to draft and implement it and will be financed from all relevant budget lines. the liberal group does not think it wise to have a separate budget line for the baltic sea strategy. we are in the process of putting together a budget for the neighbourhood as a new neighbourhood and partnership instrument. it is not appropriate to split it into several budget lines and would not increase the funding for the baltic sea region, quite the contrary. it is, of course, a media-sexy idea, as mr stubb has often said, but we must think of things in terms of substance and not image. the next step could be for the european parliament to draw up a new comprehensive report on the northern dimension, taking account of the baltic sea report now under consideration on the one hand and the agreements with our neighbours russia, norway and iceland on the other. i would also like to thank mr stubb for his excellent cooperation in drafting this report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as one of the initiators and founders of the baltic europe intergroup network, i have had the pleasure of contributing to the work which has now led to this report for two years. the union's ten new members made it possible to reunite the peoples of the baltic sea region. now the heart of the region can give the northern dimension full life. the union must take advantage of the great potential of the baltic sea region. the faster the new member states can increase their prosperity, the stronger the union will be in relation to its neighbours. this requires active action by the union. we therefore need a concrete programme from the commission in which all its departments take responsibility. a strong baltic sea region is needed to resolve issues of importance to the union as a whole. we must break down the mental barriers between the west and the east by direct contact between people. we need a modern visa policy and better economic cooperation with russia. we must resolve the border disputes in the baltics. we must restore the ecological balance of the baltic sea. we must end the russian boycott of polish food. we must eliminate the five-mile long truck lines at the border stations in eastern finland. the union exists to solve common problems. we must not let the veto be the only way to draw attention to important issues. a common eu strategy is therefore necessary. it is important that the commission should take up this matter as soon as possible, and the report by mr alexander stubb is an excellent basis for this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr alexander stubb on his excellent report and thank him for his excellent cooperation. i would like to mention just one point: the amendment i tabled with diana wallis on the establishment of a regional office for the baltic sea region. the eib is currently active in 11 eu member states and six non-eu countries in the mediterranean and african regions. only one office, the polish office, is located in the baltic sea region and in the new member state. in contrast, there are eight offices in the southern europe and mediterranean region. last spring, the investment bank set up a branch in vienna to handle projects in the eastern part of central europe and the balkans. but no office is responsible for projects in the baltic sea region of the new member states, the nordic countries and the baltic states. i think it would be important to set up such an office to supervise financial operations in that area and to make the baltic sea strategy a reality. the presence of such a branch could also support large-scale financing projects for the next seasons of the eu structural and cohesion funds, thus contributing to the baltic sea cooperation and important projects in the baltic sea region.
madam president, i congratulate commissioner frattini for staying on board for so long. perhaps he is excited about the next season at ferrari, with kimi raikkonen driving for them. sorry, mr duff, i know you do not follow formula one! i should like to make five points. first point: i support the report. i think it is excellent. there is only one thing i think goes a little over the top and that is the idea of a european defence minister to supplement our foreign minister. we will wait for the constitution to start with one and then perhaps have the other. second point: this concerns mr van orden, who unfortunately has already left. he raised a lot of problems about the relationship between nato and the eu. i always tell mr van orden that he should get a life. if we have the constitution all those problems will be solved, but alas, he is probably not in favour of the constitution. third point: i think the strategic interests of the eu and the us are exactly the same and this report shows that very well. that is why i think we need to try to solve our problems hand in hand as mr von wogau suggests. fourth point: i think the biggest structural problem that we have between esdp and nato is that our cooperation does not really work in the way it is supposed to. as a former civil servant, i think that the relationships are too much staff-to-staff, in other words too many civil servants dealing with civil servants. perhaps we should make the relationship political and thus get a result. my final point is that i think the strength of the esdp is its diversity. if we only focus on the civilian aspects of crisis management, we are cheating ourselves. the question is, do you accept ethnic cleansing, for instance? if your answer is no, we also need a military aspect of crisis management. so therefore i support the report with all my heart. i think it is excellent.
for the alde group mr president, in recent months a new atmosphere of cooperation has emerged between the european union and russia, the spirit of the gulf, as it was called after the informal summit in autumn. the recent eu-russia summit was also held in this spirit. the spirit of the bay is characterized by an open approach to difficult matters. both in lahti and helsinki, issues of human rights and democracy were also discussed in a direct way. the helsinki summit was marred by a dispute which prevented the opening of negotiations on a new partnership agreement. however, the parties were able to conclude that cooperation could be pursued on the basis of the existing agreement, which is still in force. the negotiations on a new partnership agreement should be launched as soon as possible, but on the other hand new ideas for developing cooperation can be implemented on the basis of the current agreement. the summit achieved positive results on two important issues. firstly, the charges for flights over siberia will be gradually reduced and will be completely abolished by the end of 2013. on the other hand, the summit saw the signing of agreements between the eu, russia, norway and iceland on the northern dimension. in the north, we have already established a modern contractual arrangement, which allows us to cooperate in the four areas that the eu and russia have agreed to establish. the eu-russia border trucks were also discussed in helsinki. they were continued today at the finnish-russian prime ministers' talks in moscow. the problem is that on the russian side, as many as seven authorities are carrying out checks. now the number is being cut in half, and border checks are being accelerated in other ways. we must find a quick solution to this burning problem.
mr president, mr minister, i will only speak about energy, because we cannot talk about everything, and i will put forward half a dozen points. we need to ensure that we have access to energy, but russia needs to ensure that it has a stable supply of energy. we need a mutual opening of the market. we also need long-term trade agreements. russia also needs them, because it will have to invest in a fraction of its energy production. the energy debate needs more political guidance from us. energy is a very political issue. nevertheless, we are here to list many things, but we do not even go to russia to look into energy matters. we have to go there. it's been a long time since anyone's had this kind of a thought. in conclusion, i would like to say that energy is now a source of conflict with russia. it cannot be solved by electricity or gas. it is the job of politicians. we must therefore act as politicians in the energy sector and find a form of cooperation with russia that satisfies both sides. (applause) i would like to thank the
on behalf of the pse group mr president, i thank the rapporteurs and in particular mr busquin, who is sitting here next to me. we hope that the research framework programme will help us to take a few steps closer to the lisbon objectives. parliament has supported this excellent package and so does my own group. the €1 billion in the venture capital fund will support smes and it is smes that must become the big challengers and employers. the research effort should be increased. nevertheless, only one country has spent more than 1% of its budget on research and development, and that country is finland. the eu's research expenditure is more fragmented than that of the us, even if the funds spent on defence research are not taken into account. the new research programme will bring new areas of research and new initiatives to this same haystack. the technology initiatives will improve the participation of the business community in the framework programme. the european research council (erc) is responsible for the management of the brightest basic research. the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, on the other hand, focuses on supporting entrepreneurship. the european institute of technology may bring a top university into this equation to compete with universities. in the above fields, there is even a joint research institute, which already has more than 2000 researchers. i'm afraid this whole thing is going to fragment and create unnecessary overlap. the applicants are in a confused state of mind, wondering where they are going to put on the moon. i therefore ask the commission to inform parliament of how it intends to organise the european architecture of r & d so that confusion does not slow down progress. era-net is an important part of this work, but do we already have too many community initiatives? does the right commissioner know what the left commissioner is doing? (applause) i would like to thank the
i give this explanation of vote, mr president, not only on behalf of myself but also on behalf of my colleague, mrs piia-noora kaup. i regret to say two things about the vote on the van orden report. first of all, it is regrettable that mr harms gave false information about our amendments during the vote. let it stay on his conscience. it was a mistake. secondly, it is regrettable that you did not give us the opportunity to correct this misinformation, despite our requests. since the vote was extremely close, i am tempted to think that the result could have been different without the misinformation. i myself have said in this chamber that we are not asking for the agreement to be withdrawn, but for it to be revised in the light of the latest information, so that we can be flexible with regard to the closing date. the shutdown can only be partially offset, and it's happening at lignite power plants, the dirtiest source of energy there is. the aid money collected in the green review is therefore used to switch from cleaner technology to dirtier technology. once again, green action is accelerating climate change, not slowing it down.
mr president, after long and multi-generational discussions, negotiations, committee votes and compromises, we are now seeing the shape of reach. the background is, as has been said here, that we simply know too little about almost all the chemicals on the internal market. over the course of history, tens of thousands of chemicals have been introduced into the market, with unknown effects on the environment and human health. our current chemicals legislation prevents new, better chemicals from entering the market, because it makes it possible and cheaper to use old chemicals. this is therefore an obstacle to innovation under the lisbon strategy. the main instruments of reach are the registration obligation for the chemical industry and importers. in recent weeks we have discussed the permit procedure and the related compensation procedure. the european parliament and its rapporteur, mr guido sacconi, have worked hard to improve the commission's original proposal and the council's common position on the replacement of hazardous chemicals of concern by chemicals of benefit to the environment and human health. this work has been consistent and we must note that it has produced good results. after the first reading vote, very few people believed that we could really achieve anything. now we have a good result. the compromise now under discussion is that all dangerous substances will be covered by the substitution procedure and that the most dangerous chemicals will always be replaced if a substitute chemical is available and economically and technically feasible. in addition, for other substances of concern, compensation plans or research plans shall be made a condition for market access. i'd like to comment on that apple comparison. personally, i prefer to pick and eat an apple when it is ripe, rather than waiting for it to rot. in the same way, i think it's important to know when to make decisions, when is the best time to pick this ripe apple.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, mr guido saccon, for his long and exhausting climb. the green group has tabled two different proposals on reach. the second is our backstop proposal, which contains the improvements already approved by the council, but not the defects which were made last night at the request of the conservatives, against the opinion of the committee on the environment. so our alternative compromise is to reach the top of the mountain without the fog that clouds the joy of guido saccon. two weeks ago, finland passed the first move in the council in the direction demanded by parliament in the area of substitution of dangerous substances, adding hormone disruptors to the list of chemicals to be replaced. i was shocked when this breakthrough was reversed on the last night of the negotiations at the insistence of the conservatives. in addition, information relating to the identification of chemicals was classified as a trade secret. throughout the passage of the chemicals act, conservatives have brutally and ruthlessly acted as the handmaidens and handmaidens of the chemical industry. i understand everyone who wants a final solution now. the content of the proposal submitted on my behalf has already been adopted by the council. all that's missing is the bad luck of last night. ladies and gentlemen, those of you who voted for strict substitution and want to remove the most dangerous chemicals from our environment, if you are consistent, will support this proposal and remove the mist from the mountain top. people are gonna come to you and ask, "what did you do to protect my health from dangerous chemicals?"
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, a warm thanks to the rapporteur, mrs fourtou, for her meritorious work. there are generally no rules without exceptions, and that's a good thing. our european union is not just made up of member states which would be fully covered by the community customs regime. the union also comprises territories which, for historical and other reasons, have had to opt out of community harmonisation of indirect taxation in various ways. such territories are, for example, the finnish åland islands, the channel islands, the canary islands, agios oros in greece and the french overseas departments. it is important for both the european union and these territories that trade between them should be as smooth as possible. since these territories are very different also in relation to each other in terms of trade with the european union, it is important to allow for the introduction of specific derogations for them. this is in the interests of the european union and the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon agenda. specific arrangements for these areas would not interfere with intra-community trade and, of course, we all benefit from the smooth running of trade and the avoidance of unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles. i am therefore pleased that the committee has taken note of this need in its report and adopted a pragmatic approach. i hope that the council and the commission will now also meet parliament on these points. bilateral arrangements must also be possible in certain cases. it is important that the eu responds to the specific needs of its citizens and does not get stuck in standard solutions that are suitable for many but not all. i am glad that the reform of the customs code can also help to strengthen citizens' confidence in the union, which has been seriously failing in recent times.
for the ppe-de group mr president, first of all i would like to thank both rapporteurs, mr elles and mr grech, for their good work and cooperation. as for mrs elles, i should like to say briefly that i am particularly pleased with the idea she has put forward of 'value for money'. it will be an extremely important tool in the years to come and will help us to draw up the budget. as for louis grech, i would like to say that we worked well together and that we were in agreement on all the main lines. i would like to make one further point concerning the clarification we requested from the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee. it is not that it is directed against them, but they too must take this value for money idea into account. then we'll see what the future brings. it is particularly important for the whole budget in this package that we can adopt the financial regulation, for which ingeborg gräßle has done an excellent job. it is indeed as he said: combating criminal misuse of funds, transparency, many good things will come about when this financial regulation can be adopted together. it is a major step in this year's budget decisions. mr president, as has been pointed out here, this process has perhaps been somewhat confusing in parliament. the important thing now is that we can reach an agreement and that the budget can be signed on thursday. however, this proposal for reducing staff was unrealistic. i think it's always good to question institutions and bureaucracy and what everybody else is doing. it was not a bad idea, but perhaps this presentation that finland made was too general. but the main thing is that we have found a good working relationship and the budget will be signed on thursday.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, next year's budget is less than 1% of aggregate gross national income. the majority of our group is dissatisfied with this low level and the council's unwillingness to build a more social europe. the council has instead sought to militarise the eu and to propose increased spending to finance the common foreign and security policy. in the budgetary negotiations parliament agreed to increase this expenditure on militarization, while the council agreed to respond by drawing up a new financial regulation. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000 in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 21 of the financial regulation. i hope that parliament will not have to witness another failure of the presidency, as the outcome of the conciliation procedure has not yet been adopted by the council with regard to the financial regulation. it's been unclear whether it'll be accepted. in these circumstances, it would be very appropriate for our group to see parliament use its budgetary powers and cut the expenditure on militarization which the council has identified as a priority. next year, we'll have special conditions. it is the first year of the new financial framework and not all the structural and other programmes are yet ready. in addition, the new member states may lack the capacity to use all the funds allocated to them. if we accept the low level of budgetary expenditure, it is unacceptable that the commission should not spend another eur 7 billion, as it did this year. we hope for better implementation, commissioner!
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs-general, mr james elles and mr louis gretch, for a job well done. the budget for next year is disciplined, its expenditure is less than 1% of gross national income and well below the financial perspective. this year's debate was marked by certain difficulties with the council. there was no major disagreement on the expenditure side of the budget. it wasn't about the money. it was about the procedure. the council reopened the agreed details on several occasions. the new financial regulation is still open. it has already been agreed in pieces once, but the council has not yet ratified it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is important, mr president, that the council does everything possible to ensure that parliament can adopt next year's budget in a negotiated form on thursday.
i would just like to respond to mr corbett. the interesting thing is that when you go to a restaurant or pub in the uk nowadays, the service you get is not in the queen’s english. we finns would find it very exciting to have 500 000 people speaking even a little bit of unusual finnish. i should firstly like to congratulate the commission on its efforts in the area of free movement. secondly, i would like to congratulate those member states which have opened their borders to the free movement of labour from the new member states. my question is simple and straightforward. what is the commission going to do to keep up the pressure on all the old member states to open up to the free movement of labour, just as the uk, ireland, sweden, denmark, finland, holland and a few others have already done?
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets. mr president, we in the committee on budgets have been particularly interested in how the funds saved from other uses are transferred to this fund. in the case of the budget for year n, the council wanted to use the saved resources in the order of first transferring to the egf the unused margins of the year n-1 preceding the budget in question and only then the unused commitment appropriations of the year n-2 preceding it. however, parliament could not accept such an illogical order in time. we have wanted to use the known commitment appropriations for the year n-2 before the budget was drawn up first and then the margins for the year n-1. the commission supported parliament's position, as is strongly demonstrated by the letter to parliament by dalia grybauskaitė, the commissioner responsible for the budget, on the transfers. this order was approved by the council in a trilogue. i would like to thank roselyne bachelot-narquin for their excellent cooperation. the committee on budgets can therefore accept the outcome of the trilogue.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to make five points about our report on integration capacity. i will start by thanking all those colleagues involved in the process and certainly those in the secretariat who did a wonderful job. my first point is about the terminology we are using today. the original term which we dealt with was ‘absorption capacity’. when we were discussing who was going to do this report, i talked to mr absorption himself – my good friend mr brok. we came to the conclusion that perhaps absorption is not the best term to use. i think carl bildt put it very well when he said: who wants to be absorbed by the european union? does france want to be absorbed by the european union? of course the answer is no. so we went for a more dynamic, more positive term and decided that ‘integration capacity’ is really what we are looking at. my second point is that this is potentially a sensitive subject because there are many interests. my colleague and friend mr brok made reference to some of them. in other words you have those types of people who are against enlargement but for the constitution. you have those who are against the constitution but for enlargement. then you have those like me who are for the constitution and for enlargement, and then there are the likes of mr farage and the rest who are against both. what we tried to do was swim through these four types of interest and i think we have done it fairly well in this report. the notion of integration capacity is nothing really new. we have always had it. there is always a debate before each and every enlargement about how much the european union should deepen. before 1973 the union became a customs union. before 1986 the single european act was put forward. before the finnish-austrian-swedish accession you had the maastricht treaty. before the big bang in 2004 you had amsterdam and nice. what we want is to have a constitution before the next enlargement. thirdly, how do we define integration capacity? i think the conclusion of this report is that you can give a vague notion of what it actually means and you could say that it is not a condition for enlargement, but it is a criterion for us, the current member states. we have to put our house in order before we are able to enlarge. the difficulty is that you cannot give integration capacity a strict definition because it is linked to two things. one: the time of accession. two: the number of new states coming in. in other words, enlargement in 1973 was radically different to enlargement in 2004. still on the definition, integration capacity is about three things: institutions, budget and policies. my fourth point is about the public debate, and here i would like to point the finger at the european council, which is saying that we need to link enlargement to public opinion. we say yes, of course you have to do that, but do not tell me that you do not have the opportunity to do it. enlargement negotiations are opened through unanimity. each chapter is opened with unanimity. each chapter is closed with unanimity. the whole package is approved by unanimity, and on top of that each member state is supposed to ratify accession. if within those two to ten years you are not able to explain the benefits of enlargement to the general public i think you are miserably failing in your job, so please do your job and then come and start talking about public opinion. we need more strategic thinking on enlargement. my final point is about the constitution. this report outlines a number of issues which we desperately need to clarify before the next enlargement: qualified majority voting, legal personality, the foreign minister, common security policy, etc. these are issues that we badly need to deal with before we can enlarge. the message from this report is: let us get that house in order before 2009 and then start enlarging. i shall finish with this. enlargement is probably the best policy the european union has ever had. it has brought with it peace, prosperity, security and stability. when we talk about enlargement let us not give poor excuses because we know that we are never and yet always ready to enlarge. (applause)
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the twins brok and stubby for their reports. as we know, they are both very competent and talented brothers, but the direction they want to take the european union is not necessarily the direction i support. it is true that reforms are needed, and it is true that enlargement has proved to be a good and effective way of taking the european union forward in many respects. but at some point, we also have to remember the limits of expansion. the policy of the european union cannot be to expand and expand and when problems arise, to set up new agencies, but it should be possible to have a more in-depth discussion on what the future of the european union will be, what kind of union is needed and what the union's tasks really are. in this connection, i hope that the limits of growth will also be taken into account in this enlargement debate. we often raise questions about the limits of growth in our speeches, but now that we are talking about the enlargement of the european union, we do not remember that even such growth has certain limits.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the reflection period has clearly shown that the major challenge now is to convince citizens that they can participate in decisions and influence the future of the union. it is important that they dare to believe in their influence and want to give their support also when the union in the future wishes to include new member states, which could be many. all citizens must feel that they are represented in the european parliament. it's a given for many, but not for all. because of the national electoral systems and the rules for the distribution of seats in the european parliament, a large group of europeans will be voted out of the parliament as the enlargement process proceeds. i am referring to the regional and national linguistic minorities which today constitute some 50 million, a full 10% of the union's population. in the last election, four minorities were eliminated. it is very unfortunate that large groups should be systematically excluded from decision-making in the union. nor should we expect them to support the european project automatically in the future. this must be taken seriously when the treaties are revised. the eu should not create second-class citizens.
rapporteur. – mr president, on amendment 8 which has been tabled by the pse group, the version we will follow is the french original language version which refers to the ‘lisbon strategy’. the english version talks about the ‘social model’, and of course the pse group did not mean that. (der mündliche änderungsantrag wird angenommen.)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr minister, mr president of the commission, at the end of the finnish presidency, the message box will be transferred to germany at this week's summit. finland has done its most important work during its presidency in secret for germany. finland has held bilateral discussions with all member states on the possibility of reviving the eu constitution. finland reports on the discussions at the summits. continuing to draft the constitution in secret is contrary to the priority of the presidency, which was to increase the openness and transparency of the eu. the secret preparation of things gives the image of a community, and its political elite runs its own affairs without regard for the voices of the citizens, without regard for the results of referendums. the decision of the finnish government to ratify the dead eu constitution in the finnish parliament has been a disgraceful one. many members of parliament from the ruling parties also voted against ratification. everyone knows that a law ratified by finland will never come into force anywhere. at the summit, finland will put issues relating to the area of freedom, security and justice on the agenda. finally, the aim is to move to qualified majority voting in so-called third pillar matters, using the so-called passerelle procedure. the proposal did not receive sufficient support at the tampere justice ministers' meeting. there are countries in the eu which value their own national legal basis for matters which have not been legally transferred to the eu. unfortunately, finland is not one of those countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. it remains to be seen how the future enlargement will be discussed side by side without mentioning the real names of the issues. but the problem of turkey and cyprus is real.
mr president, the integration process of the european union is at a crossroads. it is necessary for the future of europe that the european summit finds consensus on the enlargement strategy. the report of the european commission published in november provides a good framework for this. i highly support the commission’s proposal and the two reports by mr brok and mr stubb which were adopted today. the union should have a wider ideological debate and commit to a sustainable long-term strategy. we should not allow contemporary political issues to influence decisions that have effects on the days to come. for the european union, staying open means staying alive. it is my utmost wish that the european council this week does not focus solely on turkey. this monday, as the foreign ministers met, the finnish presidency successfully dealt with problems created by the failed implementation of the ankara protocol. more importantly, in order to solve the conflict, the council confirmed the commission’s proposal to freeze eight chapters of turkey’s accession talks. however, the other 27 chapters will all remain open for new talks and progress. contrary to the picture, monday’s decisions by the foreign ministers have not brought the negotiations with turkey to a halt but are in reality accelerating the phase of talks. if the summit confirms the decision, the negotiators will get moving again; they will not be halted. also, the constraining deadline of the ankara protocol has been removed. this ensures a more open dialogue for negotiations in a less pressing environment. as discussed earlier today in the excellent report of my colleague mr stubb, it is the responsibility of the european union and not the applicant countries to take care of integration capacity. that is why it is crucial to discuss constitutional matters at the european council. mrs lehtomäki, everyone is aware that there is a consensus on the need for the treaty, but we need the real options on the table. i think the finnish presidency has done a good job in the preparatory process, but now we need make moves to analyse this and get the options on the table.
mr president, the accession negotiations between the european union and turkey are a long process. understandably, the accession negotiations raise many questions and even suspicions. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. turkey is and will remain geographically an asian country, with only a small part of istanbul on the european side. we need to be patient. we must calmly watch and see how turkey develops and how it fulfils the conditions for membership. turkey is not quick to adapt to all changes. finland's decision to join the eu over ten years ago was a difficult one, and it has been for all the other new member states. for turkey, it is much more difficult, because the eu requires so many changes. turkey is not ready to become a member, but it must be admitted that the eu is not ready, mature enough to accept turkey as a member either. the road to consensus will take a lot of work from citizens and policy-makers. however, mr president, in order to make enlargement a success, we must also take care of our own internal development. the fate of the constitutional treaty is therefore important. minister paula lehtomäki has done a good job. he has had discussions with all the member states and i would have liked him to have given parliament some insight into these discussions. transparency is the only way to ensure that the constitutional treaty will be implemented in some form in the future.
mr president, mr minister, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the decision on turkey - the partial freeze - was the right one and it must be done. turkey was not ready for political solutions. but think about the cultural changes, they're not going to be that easy. but europe will not achieve its goals either. why would you do that? we are lagging behind in research, development and innovation, and we are lagging behind at an ever-increasing rate. for example, in the information and communications sector, which accounts for 40% of gdp growth, we are lagging far behind our competitors. the scientists are in a bad place. we need more investigators. we're losing them instead. the bureaucratic obstacles are great, our education is lacking, our economic growth is slow, our development work is insufficient and the lofty aims of lisbon are out of our hands. energy dependence and consumption are increasing and self-sufficiency is decreasing. we've created these crises ourselves, all of us. the summit should agree, or at least talk about, an immediate lifeline, a major boost to research progress. some of us have been exemplary in that regard. the seventh framework programme for research and development is not enough, nor is the research council or the institute of technology. we need more money, more innovation, more investment: the lifeline of the future of europe based on intelligence. it's in our sights.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the president of the commission on the good team spirit and control he has in his cabinet because it seems they have to have colour-coordinated ties. i think that is very good – it shows that they have things under control! this european council is about three things. i thought that the socialists were against product placement, and i can tell mia de vits that this summit is not about volkswagen, it is about three things: enlargement; the constitution; and justice and home affairs. what do i think the key message for enlargement should be? it should be threefold: first, we need to continue our commitment to enlargement. if we get that into the conclusions i think it is a success. second, i think that integration capacity should be defined but it should not be a condition for enlargement. if you get that through, i think it would be very good. third, i think we need a little more public debate on enlargement and, certainly, on public defence. right now, we have a political leadership in many countries that first takes a decision on enlargement and, right after it has done that, starts blaming enlargement for all the bad that we have in the world. i do not think that is the right way to go about it. second, the constitution. as a former civil servant, i understand the necessity for confidential consultations. nevertheless, it would be nice if you could throw some light on what those consultations would lead to. i would also like to thank the finnish presidency and finland for ratifying the constitution. i think that was a very important step and an important gesture. there is a lot of debate about the constitution right now. i, personally, am against the idea of a mini-treaty. i would like to have a ‘treaty plus’ – in other words a second edition of the treaty. if we achieve that in 2008 or 2009 i think that would be quite good. finally, justice and home affairs. i am sick and tired of hearing people say that we cannot advance on this thing because of the constitution. no – we decided in amsterdam to move to qualified majority voting, we reinforced that in nice and we did it with the constitution. if we have the political will – and this goes straight to the german government – we can move to qualified majority voting in all justice and home affairs questions. i would like to congratulate the finnish presidency for a job very well done.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr commissioner, i have prepared a report for the itre committee on assistance to third countries in the field of nuclear safety. this regulation complements aid granted for other purposes and is necessary because of the appropriate legal basis. aid to improve the nuclear safety of third countries cannot be granted without the legal basis provided for in this regulation, which is article 203 of the euratom treaty. the eu will then be able to continue its activities to improve nuclear safety in the former tacis countries, including after the end of the tacis programme. commissioner, the committee believes - not only the rapporteur but the committee - that the eu should not help build new nuclear power stations, but only improve the safety of existing and operating nuclear power stations and other nuclear installations. the verts/ale group has tabled an amendment to the text adopted by the 27th committee. the intention is good, but the wording of the amendment does not make the point clearer, but creates a problem of interpretation. the fact that eligible nuclear installations must be operational on the date of entry into force of the regulation leaves open the question whether installations which are in existence and in operation but in service or otherwise out of operation on that date can be assisted. it is not appropriate to exclude such establishments from aid, and i cannot therefore accept this amendment. i think that parliament's intention in this matter is clearly expressed in other articles. such assistance shall be granted only for the improvement of the nuclear safety of existing installations and shall not be used to assist in the construction of new installations. it must be remembered that the responsibility for nuclear safety always lies with the plant itself and that eu assistance to improve the safety of nuclear installations is only complementary. it transfers to the nuclear installations of third countries specific know-how held by the eu, its member states or the iaea, but for which the eligible countries do not have the financial capacity. finally, i shall amend the report orally and correct the amount in the committee's amendment no 25 and the amount budgeted in the multiannual financial framework to eur 524 million. i'd like to thank my colleagues for their cooperation.
the committee on transport and tourism has adopted an opinion. mr president, it is true that transport emissions are one of the most rapidly growing emissions in our society at the moment, and this forces us to consider how we can properly implement the principles of sustainable development, how we can find solutions in transport that are more environmentally friendly, so that transport can take better account of the environmental requirements imposed on it by land, sea and air. the great problem has been that we do not have enough investment and support for environmentally friendly modes of transport and modes of transport at the moment. a good example of this is biodiesel or hybrid cars, which have been waiting for support but have not received it and have therefore remained very marginal phenomena. taxation is also one of the ways of steering more sustainable development, but even the member states have not yet decided to do so. we need support now in this respect: tax relief and clear guidelines that the environment and the principles of sustainable development are a real priority for us and not just a topic for celebrations.
we support the reports and i congratulate the rapporteurs. i would like to make two points. we have not only the problem of energy imports, which creates uncertainty, but also our own activities here within the union. our reserve capacity for energy is 4.8 per cent and is decreasing each year, compared with 15 to 20 per cent in the past. so we've been driven into crises by our own actions. we must now invest in new capacity, we must build and improve public transport networks, and we must now ask the governments for help. of course, we must also take a more aggressive approach to energy consumption. the second thing is that energy has become not only a political but also a social issue. the poorer the consumer, the more difficult the situation is for him in times of high energy prices, and this consumer must be the focus, as the morgan report states. i ask the commission what it intends to do to improve social energy security.
the rapporteur. mr president, during the course of the debate the amount of money proposed in this amendment has become obsolete and the correct amount in the multiannual financial framework is eur 524 million. i propose that it be corrected in this amendment.
mr president, thank you for that pronunciation. stubb turns to ‘stub’ and i think that next year it will be ‘schtub’, so it is all going in the right direction. i have three brief points to make. firstly, i would like to thank and congratulate the finnish presidency, especially four ministers, and then a group of people. the four ministers are prime minister vanhanen – i think he did a fantastic job; minister lehtomäki, who did a fantastic job; foreign minister tuomioja, who did a great job; and then there is one minister who is absent, mr pekkarinen. most of all i would like to thank the civil servants, especially ambassador eikka kosonen. we all know that the machinery does not work without the civil service. if you were to put pluses and minuses on the presidency, i think the pluses would far exceed the minuses – lebanon, the services directive, reach, research, enlargement, climate change and schengen. i think you did a very good job on that. i should like to say to mr schulz that the last person i want lecturing me on the services directive is a german socialist. as regards alcohol tax, i think there is a minus, but as a consumer i do not really mind the fact that you failed to raise alcohol tax. to finish off, i would like to say that the finnish presidency was cool, calm and collected. if you could personify things, i would say that you, mrs lehtomäki, were mrs cool. mr vanhanen, you were mr calm, and i think you, mr tuomioja, were mr collected. (applause)
mr president, as regards the presidency, it can be said that it did well: the handling of the lebanon crisis, reach, the services directive. i have important things to say. i particularly appreciate the fact that cooperation with russia was seen as a major problem. the gulf was an excellent example, and although we know how the helsinki meeting proceeded, the gulf line is what must be followed here and what must be acted upon. the only negative thing is the idealism of enlargement that is plaguing the finnish government. turkey has shown in the last six months how difficult it is to move ahead too quickly. we really must insist that the conditions be met, that sufficient time be given. mr. prime minister, you are wrong to say that there should be no borders. the citizens expect us to have a vision of how big europe will be in 10 to 20 years' time. the citizens would rather have a small and functioning europe than a too large and poorly functioning one. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, the history of the union has shown many times that small member states have to keep the idea of integration alive when large member states have their own problems. finland has been praised for creating a good working environment, and this has led to such difficult compromises as the services directive and the chemicals regulation. at the same time, it became clear once again that parliament has increasing political power, but fortunately also the ability to negotiate major issues between the major political groups. governments in all member states will have to take this more seriously when they discuss their national parliaments. we wish germany good luck, mr president, and economic success too, because experience shows that the contribution of the large member states to european cooperation will increase as their economies improve. germany can only hope that it will not become the brake on enlargement policy. all the enlargements so far have been both economic and political successes.
mr president, during its presidency finland introduced qualified majority voting in third pillar matters through socalled passerelle clauses. yet, only national laws record the historical concept of right and wrong of nations and constitute the legal legitimacy of societies. in the field of justice, eu laws are synthetic laws for half a billion citizens. they're compromises that no one wanted to make in the first place. they undermine the legitimacy of the eu, as does the existing constitution, which requires unanimity. it requires unanimity, and since it was not reached, it is therefore dead. in the constitutional case, finland acted as a mine-clearer for germany for the forthcoming presidency. unfortunately, finland has not brought the eu more legitimacy from the point of view of its citizens during its presidency. it's just a duplicate of the elite's message to the nations.
mr president, the strongest statement that the president-in-office made in his speech was in advocating more communitarian-friendly procedures. six months ago i saw some euroscepticism in your eu approach, but when you said that qualified majority voting and the codecision procedure with the european parliament are the best and most effective way to govern the european union, that was the best part of your speech. this also makes it clear that rotating presidencies still have some meaning in the european union. at least it keeps the member states better committed to the european union and its common policies. i should also like to say to those who said that turkey’s accession talks will slow down that this will not happen. of the 35 negotiating chapters, only eight are closed, which is a very good result for the finnish presidency. twenty-seven chapters are still open to advancement and going forward. in fact, turkey’s accession talks will be much improved as a result of this excellent finnish presidency. i can only echo what my colleagues have already said. (applause)
i would also like to thank you, mr president, for the finnish presidency. many speeches have been used here to evaluate the course and its success. i can say that, when it comes to six-month presidencies like this, it is perhaps difficult to evaluate them on a very quantitative basis, but if we think qualitatively, i can say that finland has done well with the legislative projects and has taken them forward. we have been able to push forward with reach, the services directive, the seventh research framework programme and so on. i can say that as a finn i was particularly pleased that our ministers were also very present, especially minister lehtomäki. this shows that finland is willing to take up these issues, and also to bring its own expertise and involvement to the joint european decision-making process. i can say that this presidency... (the president interrupted)
