mr president, four years ago the united states transferred its first prisoners of the war on terror, hooded and chained, to the guantanamo detention centre at its naval base in cuba. some 500 people from 35 countries are still being held without charge or trial, deprived of their rights under international law. there are increasing reports of torture and ill-treatment of detainees at the facility. in fact, the prisoners remain in a situation of no right. they are often placed in solitary confinement, sometimes for months, for violating strict camp rules. several have tried to end their lives. the us plan to have detainees tried by military commissions will only add to the injustice. these commissions are not independent and accept statements extracted under torture or coercion. in these circumstances, mr president, is it not time to join our voices with those in europe who are calling for the closure of this centre?
mr president, we have just received a delegation of port workers who have demonstrated massively in our city today. the trade union representatives condemned the violence perpetrated by a few uncontrolled elements, in strasbourg itself and against our parliament, but they drew our attention to the dangers posed by the port directive to the status of dockers, to the quality of services and to their safety. they asked the european parliament to reject, as they did two years ago, this directive, which is both useless and harmful, even though it is the responsibility of parliament. this directive is harmful, it is unnecessary because, as they pointed out to us, port workers, european port services are the most competitive in the world and there is no need to exacerbate competition in our ports.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, europe is indeed based on absolute principles: equality, tolerance and humanism. these fundamentals are not subject to any exception; they simply impose themselves on us and the authorities must defend them at all costs when they are attacked. anathemas are being hurled at some of our fellow citizens, and real discrimination is being unleashed. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of nations. those who suffered these vile acts, what did they do? i didn't say anything. they simply have a different sexuality, they are homosexuals and the text which is being proposed and which we are debating tonight is an important act. by voting for this resolution, we are saying loud and clear that we want to put an end to the difference in treatment suffered by homosexuals on eu soil and that they should be guaranteed equal rights. we insist on this point: the laws must be the same for all. finally, we solemnly ask for an end to homophobic remarks that incite hatred, especially when these condemnations are pronounced by the highest authorities of the state. these authorities shall ensure equal treatment for all. it is our duty to guarantee the fundamental rights of everyone in accordance with article 13 of the treaty. this is our shared understanding of democracy and our values. vigilance is needed on a daily basis. the fight against homophobia must, if necessary, be carried out by means of legislative measures, as is already the case in several member states. the europe of 25 is fraternity, equality. let's get rid of the unhealthy germs that are growing here and there. we have a duty to resist the hatred and rejection of the other. i can only quote today the words of the german resistance pastor niemöller: "when they came to arrest my communist neighbor, i said nothing, i was not a communist. when they came to arrest my gypsy neighbor, i didn't say anything, i wasn't a gypsy. when they came to arrest my jewish neighbor, i said nothing, i wasn't jewish. when they came to arrest me, there was no one left to defend me". thank you. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has had the honour of being at the forefront of the fight against discrimination. gender equality, the status of ethnic minorities, the situation of disabled people and, more recently, respect for sexual orientation. article 13 of the treaty, the charter of fundamental rights and numerous directives give our assembly not only the right but also the duty to continue the fight for the equal rights of homosexual, bisexual and transsexual persons. the substantial progress made in this field in many eu countries led some to hope that the matter would be settled, if not settled, at least pacified. this is not the case, and there is a real increase in homophobic comments and violence. we are appalled by the recent statements by polish political leaders, which have unfortunately received only lukewarm reactions from the european commission. other inadmissible interventions were made in the same register in other countries, including france. violence, ranging from abuse to torture and murder, is deplorable. these crimes are taking place in a particularly worrying international context, in egypt, lebanon and senegal. homosexuals are being persecuted because of their lifestyle, and worse, in iran, two have been executed. we therefore welcome the commission's statement on homophobia in the european union. for our group, our epp colleague alexander stubb had prepared a resolution calling on the commission and the member states to take concrete, legislative and operational measures to combat this discrimination. today we are considering a joint resolution by five political groups. it is a matter of great satisfaction that the struggle for human rights in this house has transcended party lines. the commission's statements must now be replaced by a comprehensive directive. it is up to each of us to continue this fight in our respective countries, for equality which is not only a right to indifference but also to difference. (applause) i would like to thank
the committee on constitutional affairs has tabled a number of amendments to the report. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, first of all i would like to congratulate you on the quality of the work done in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, i congratulate you, especially since many of the proposals we adopted are included in the final report. we are pleased. commissioner, you have spoken of rights and duties and i believe that in terms of citizenship, it is a balance on which a number of us share the same approach. however, the question of own resources, as we raised it in the committee on constitutional affairs and as we referred it to the committee on civil liberties, which took it up, must also be raised. i am surprised at the remarks of the italian president of the council. it is not a question of creating a new tax. the aim, in the spirit of what we voted here with the böge report, is to propose a mechanism with a constant tax burden, which should not only solve recurrent problems that undermine the quality of the european debate, but also, in the debate on fair return, balance the rights and duties of those who reside in the european union. beyond this question, i believe that the rapporteur's proposals on the acquisition of the nationality of one of the member states and discrimination against residents of one or other state of the european union who are nationals of third countries should be taken up by this plenary assembly, all political groups taken together. i hope that's the case. similarly, as regards extending the rights of european citizenship to longterm residents from third countries, i believe that if we really want to make progress in terms of integration, if we want the notions of european citizenship to become a reality, the possibility for these longterm residents, in particular to vote in local or european elections, should be accepted and developed at european level. finally, as far as our parliament is concerned, i believe that the idea of a transnational ballot continues to animate our work. i am not sure that we are doing so in this report, but it seems important to me to mention it as something that can improve and contribute to european citizenship.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, as the fictitious rapporteur for the socialist party in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i am very pleased with the text which is before us today and i have not tabled any amendments for the vote in plenary. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr cattania, who has done a remarkable job in the libe committee and has succeeded in rallying a majority of members to his draft report. thanks to compromise amendments drawn up jointly by the gue, the greens, the pse and the liberals, and also to individual amendments tabled by members of these groups, we have, i think, made a number of important progresses. i'll give you five: parliament called on the member states to consider establishing a stronger link between legal permanent residence for a reasonable period of time and the acquisition of national and thus european citizenship. it called for greater coordination of the general criteria and procedures for acquiring nationality in the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. thirdly, it called on the commission to draw up a white paper on the possible developments in european citizenship. fourthly, it called on the member states to extend the right to vote in municipal and european elections to third-country nationals and stateless persons who have been permanently resident in the union for more than five years, as well as the right to move freely and obtain a permanent residence permit in any member state. parliament called on the member states to discuss as soon as possible the possibility of recognising the right of citizens of the union to vote and stand as candidates in municipal, cantonal and regional elections in the member state in which they reside, and to grant them the non-cumulative option of voting and standing as candidates in national elections either in the country in which they reside or in their country of origin. the european parliament's demands and wishes are a means of moving the union towards a genuine political community. political citizenship and democratic participation are the keys to the very future of the european project we want.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly pleased with the debate on this subject. many of you know that i consider the fight against trafficking in human beings to be one of my personal priorities, which, in my view, must not only be visible but also have concrete and important results. as you know, i proposed a commission communication on this subject last october, along the lines suggested by the rapporteur, mrs prets: an integrated approach to the development of a european action plan to combat trafficking in human beings firmly and decisively. last december, following that communication, the council of ministers for justice and home affairs agreed to the proposal and adopted an action plan. the latter refers specifically to the best practices, common standards and procedures for combating and preventing trafficking in human beings. today, with this report, which i share and particularly appreciate, parliament is playing its own essential political role - and certainly a necessary one - by paying particular attention to women and children, that is to say, to the categories which in my view are most exposed to this very form of slavery, which europe has a duty to combat. i would say that it is a moral duty, not just an institutional and legal one, to abolish this form of slavery. this moral duty, as the report suggests, requires an integrated approach based on the principle of absolute respect for the dignity of every child, every woman, every man and every human being in general. this is not a legal or bureaucratic basis but our fundamental principles, based on the rules of the treaties, the european charter of rights and, if i may say so, also on morality. although the european union is already implementing policies in this area, these need to be strengthened. i am referring, for example, to a policy to strengthen the principle of equality between the sexes in order to prevent women from being marginalised in the world of work and relegated to more humble jobs, a policy which will certainly promote an improvement in the level of culture necessary to eliminate demand at the root. here's another important point: unfortunately, demand is a component of exploitation. if there were no demand, if there were fewer customers or if users who were prepared to cooperate with exploiters were drastically eliminated, the phenomenon would undoubtedly take on much less dramatic dimensions. i understand why the rapporteur has chosen not to put the issue of prostitution at the centre of the report under consideration. however, i personally believe - and i emphasize this personally - that we must also tackle the problem of how to discourage the customers, who are consciously using exploited and trafficked girls, with a firm hand. no one can ignore these dramatic conditions. this is a very sensitive subject, which we cannot discuss today, but which will have to be discussed. the present degree of harmonisation is limited. the member states have different laws and although there is a framework decision specifically dealing with trafficking in human beings, the exploitation of children, the horrendous paedophilia and child pornography, there is still little harmonisation in practice. i agree with the rapporteur that little has been done for the victims of human trafficking, who cannot be helped only when they decide to cooperate with the police authorities. they must also be helped to reintegrate into society! a child who has suffered the horror of pornography and pedophilia cannot be helped only by cooperating with the police and revealing the names of his exploiters but needs constant assistance throughout his life, because the consequences of the damage he has suffered will likely be indelible. the commission has worked to ensure that the approach to european legislation is based on the broad lines laid down by the united nations in the convention on the rights of the child. i am pleased to note that the council also shares this approach and is therefore in favour of extending all forms of protection to children under the age of 18. there is no such thing as a child that is too narrow: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of children under 18 years of age are protected. i also share another aspect of the report, when it stresses the links between the strictly criminal matter of trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration, as well as the issue of social protection and the need for a union foreign policy aimed at introducing - and we are doing so in all international relations - a clear reference to trafficking in human beings as one of the priority objectives for the european union. in short, those who negotiate with the union and wish to establish close relations at international level must be aware that the european union cannot tolerate the large flows and the exploitation of women and children and, in general, of human beings. to do all this, a database is needed. i agree with you on this one: we are in fact working on it, even technically. i am working closely with europol to improve their database so that we can build a real european statistical system that provides reliable data in the future. we often ignore the real extent of the phenomenon and this is unacceptable. europe will have a reliable database and statistical system, and at the same time i intend not only to respond to parliament's call but also to propose a number of concrete initiatives which, on the basis of the action plan approved in december, will translate into concrete action our desire to decisively eradicate trafficking in human beings, especially children and women.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the excellent report by christa prets deals with a subject of intense and pressing relevance. at a time when our societies rightly feel the urgent need to preserve the memory of what slavery was in centuries past, so that such abominations can never be repeated, can we tolerate the perpetuation and worldwide development of a new form of modern slavery, sexual slavery, conceived by traffickers as a common commercial activity? mrs prets and the committee on women's rights, for that matter, unanimously say no. it is clear that despite recent media attention, there is still little awareness of the devastating physical and psychological effects of trafficking. it is clear that the texts we have adopted to combat the increasingly violent criminals at european level have, to date, mostly remained dead letters. i therefore appreciate that mrs prets is proposing a series of measures which deal with prevention, awareness raising and repression, the integrated approach that commissioner frattini spoke about. for the first time, the foundations have been laid for a genuine common policy to combat this terrible scourge of modern times. mrs prets' report conveniently avoids the debate between trafficking and prostitution which, because of the profound divergence of our laws, risks turning short and leading us to impotence. i appreciate this approach to efficiency, but i also appreciate that the taboo problem of demand is not avoided, because in the triangle of the actors in this drama, pimps, prostitutes, customers, one could not but hypocritically ignore the responsibility of the latter. i therefore hope that these discussions will continue. they show that our parliament is aware of the problem and is determined to solve it globally, that is to say, to banish sexual slavery from our civilization. i hope that the deep consensus that has been expressed in the committee on women's rights will be reflected in our plenary and i am confident that the commissioners concerned, in particular commissioner frattini - he told us this - will hear our message and will be keen to make this fight a priority.
on behalf of the alde group. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i warmly thank mrs prets for the work she has done and i shall vote for her report. it highlights our shortcomings in the fight against trafficking and trafficking in women, adolescents and children. the laws in europe are so diverse in dealing with paedophilia, sex tourism and organised prostitution that it really takes courage and determination to reach a consensus. we must act quickly to stop the growing development of these rogue, even mafia-like markets and to combat traffickers and their accomplices who profit from both the plight of prostitutes and the sexual misery of consumers. i am not offended by the existence of prostitution, and i do not deny that it satisfies many consumers, but i am firmly opposed to this attack on the integrity of the person. i do not want to be associated with a pseudo-morality which sanctions the sins of the flesh, but at the same time i do not want to accept a lax tolerance which does not respect the charter of fundamental rights, including the integrity of the person, his freedom and dignity. of course, we cannot dream that we will eradicate prostitution, but we must be clear about the difference between tolerance and legitimization. i am in favour of penalising the application. it is our duty to think together about the introduction of comprehensive legislation to stop the growing evolution of markets and to fight against those who seek, encourage and attempt to set up such activities. it is essential to achieve zero tolerance for paedophilia and sexual violence, but we must also be able to raise awareness and empower claimants through information campaigns. indeed, although the role of the client is miserable, i am convinced that it should not be hidden. i am aware that the fight will be long and difficult, but i do not want to be an accomplice to a policy of the lesser evil by associating myself with a lax tolerance which benefits mainly the organized prostitution networks whose financial profit is enormous and which also facilitate money laundering trafficking. i would like to conclude by saying that i am opposed to any encouragement to anonymous whistle-blowing and denunciation.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, the main merit of the agreement reached in hong kong is that it preserves the existence of the multilateral system and does not bury the development cycle launched in doha. this agreement - as the commissioner himself has noted - is interim, far from completing the cycle, much remains to be done. but after seattle and cancun, a new failure would have opened the way to a proliferation of even more unbalanced bilateral agreements between the north and the south. the aim of the cycle must remain to put the rules of trade at the service of development and this must remain the aim of the european union, even if we know that this means that we will get less than what we will offer our partners in the south, especially in terms of market access. i have sometimes been harsh with you and the commission on trade policy, commissioner. my group and i will remain vigilant and demanding, particularly on key issues such as public services or support measures for the ldcs and the acp countries. that said, i would like to commend you here today for the work you have done, not only in keeping the european parliament delegation informed at all times, but also and above all in ensuring the consistency of the member states' position in hong kong. with that said, i am thinking in particular of the difficult decision that it took to reach a unanimous agreement on the elimination of agricultural export subsidies by 2013. it was a decision that was expected, an important sign, also to give credibility to the cap and to defend it better in the future, even though we know that in agricultural matters the main issues still need to be negotiated as regards internal support and access to markets. you have also shown the flexibility needed to avoid a deadlock on industrial tariffs and services, which would have been fatal to the negotiations. this flexibility will have to be maintained because it is legitimate for developing countries to want to control trade openness and not to endanger their most fragile industries and to preserve their capacity to regulate their public services. a final note: hong kong has once again shown the need for a profound reform of the wto. we have seen again how great the crisis of confidence between the industrialized and the developing countries remains, how the confrontation of national interests threatens at any moment progress towards the achievement of our common objectives: development, the eradication of poverty, fairer trade on a global scale. we will only save the multilateral trading system by ensuring its coherence with the other organizations of the united nations system that work for human development, by balancing free trade with social development goals, by ensuring that trade rules take into account non-trade dimensions, the environment, public health and social rights.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, we already knew that the trade negotiations were not really a matter of good feeling, but we must admit that the hong kong conference was a summit of hypocrisy! because, to be honest, the developing countries are totally confused: almost no progress on cotton, a sugar and banana reform which remains extremely problematic and catastrophic, particularly for the acp countries, and free market access for the ldcs which, despite all this, is not complete and is delayed. and all this in return for a very strong push for liberalization of services and manufactured goods which puts extremely fragile economies at risk. so, on agriculture, it can be said that, despite an apparent clash between the european union and the united states, the policy pursued by these two blocs has been virtually the same, that is to say, a protection still maintained of one type of agriculture. this shows that the policy of lowest prices does not work and is not sustainable in the long term. little or no regard for social and environmental rules, for peasant agriculture, for the peasantry in the south, which is very much threatened by these agreements, for the peasants in the north, or for the interests of small and mediumsized farms. so we expected the european union to show a real, consistent interest in the poorest countries. it was expected to promote sustainable development, the harmonization of trade rules with social and environmental rules. we didn't see any of this, and that's what makes it all the more disappointing. so, what's next for the negotiations? we are very concerned about the new approach which seems to be taking shape from the bottom up, as we say, to the top down, which marks a retreat towards small committee negotiations, less transparent, less democratic. we are particularly concerned about this at a time when many of our citizens are expressing great concern, doubting the ability of the european union to control economic globalisation as it is currently being conducted.
mr president, mr mandelson, five lessons from hong kong. first, our negotiating method is flawed. a year before the summit, we are making agricultural concessions by re-founding the cap. the result is that when you come to the negotiating table, no matter how talented you are - and it's immense - you have no choice but to cross the agricultural red line. secondly, hong kong confirms the seattle and cancun. agriculture, despite its 5% share, is europe's rich comparative advantage, otherwise why would it be at the heart of the war waged by brazil, for example, at each of the summits? thirdly, the apparently generous reduction in customs duties for developing countries in the name of market access is criticized by those same countries, such as mexico, which have understood that the customs gift is not made to the poor but to northern companies producing for the poor, such as bangladesh or vietnam. fourthly, this politically sympathetic reduction in customs duties is technically difficult to manage, which is proof that after 20 years of mathematical formulae, swiss formulae or otherwise, the hong kong declaration is unable to find the solution. fifthly, the path to tariff reductions is an archaic dead end. the modern solution is the invention of deductible customs duties in the form of customs credits or drawings offered by the importing state to the exporting state, a credit equal to the amounts of customs duties levied on the exporter's products. mr mandelson, if you did that, you would be harry potter, you would have managed to marry both ricardo and frederic list, you would have solved the problem of global economic asymmetries, you would have both preserved the interests of the poor and the interests of the rich, free trade and the protection of our social model.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not go back on this complex subject and i shall simply insist on a few points to underline the importance of the european union as a political tool for discussing issues such as international trade. i join in the thanks, commissioner, which have been addressed to you, along with mrs fischer-boel and allan johnsson of the european council. as regards the date of the end of export subsidies in 2013, i proposed an independent audit of all forms of aid, aimed at distinguishing between humanitarian aid, which should be subject to public oversight, and aid that distorts the rules of competition in international trade, which should be eliminated in order to remove the hypocrisy that exists in this area. i would like to draw your attention to five points. first, in a complex world, it is essential that nations have a global multilateral forum for dialogue to address international trade issues. however, i regret that the parliaments, which are the elected representatives of the people, were not involved in the negotiations in the same way as non-governmental organisations. the states must understand that it is no longer possible to get international trade agreements ratified by parliaments by asking for the funding related to these agreements to be voted on, without involving parliamentarians in the negotiations. secondly, it is imperative that we protect access to our agricultural markets in the period of uncertainty that is coming. we will have to fight on the issue of geographical indications, which is far from being won. fourthly, commissioner, we must do a lot of forward-looking work to measure, quantitatively and qualitatively, the european economic and social impact of all these negotiations, for example in terms of employment. in this connection, we could draw usefully on the work of the european economic and social committee within the single market observatory. finally, it is essential for economies, especially western economies, which create their wealth on the basis of market logic, to contribute to the implementation of real mechanisms for eradicating poverty in the world. if we do not do this, we democrats will pay a heavy political price, in particular by the rise of extremes.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, the french delegation of the ind/dem group supports the promotion of maritime transport. in the current legal context, the latter is performing well. in 2000, it accounted for 41% of intra-european bulk shipments compared with 43% for road transport. but do we need this port directive to promote this relevant mode of transport? the aim of this new proposal is to overcome the failure of the first port package which was rejected by the same parliament. the new proposal takes over the main elements of the first system. the scope remains the same, the list of services is identical, and the promotion of competition remains excessive. the few changes made to this text do not improve matters. the authorizations granted to port service providers are the subject of genuine suspicion. the imposition of new procedures will create a breeding ground for litigation and the costs of management will increase with legal uncertainty. the duration of validations does not take into account the long duration needed to justify heavy investment decisions. these successive replantings are the expression of a hasty approach without serious impact studies. the study published by the uk department for transport on 26 august 2005 even points to aggravating consequences: increased market entry fees, a benefit granted to large suppliers at the expense of small businesses. changes in self-help have fuelled criticism of social dumping. this crucial issue shows the central and recurring place of the bolkestein directive for all the union's systems. so despite article 4 and the exclusion of transport services from the services directive, we know that these are the lures we are used to here. yes, shipping needs timely and precise reforms! yes, this directive is mainly intended to hide a new and obvious failure of the union's institutions! yes, shipping needs sovereign states to clarify their position! the president therefore withdraws the floor.
mr president, commissioner, we have a somewhat original debate tomorrow, since the committee on transport and tourism has been having a procedural one-on-one. we will therefore have to decide on the raw text, that is to say, on the testamentary text of mrs loyola de palacio, her poisoned gift to the european commission. i will personally vote against it, not because i am particularly radical - and everyone knows me - but for three reasons. firstly, because we do not have to accept a denial of parliamentary democracy. we cannot encourage the commission to repeat the same texts every time parliament has voted against them. we cannot encourage him to ignore everything, to ignore everything, to follow a mystical ultraliberalism which ignores all opinions, including those of the professionals. secondly, because this text is socially unacceptable and dangerous. it's like legalizing slavery in the ports, the same as the one that rages on the seas. it is, through the self-help of the crew, to encourage our ports to hire filipinos and malays to be competitive, it is actually to give irish ferries the benefit of the doubt in june. it is politically irresponsible because we have withdrawn a crew directive which was a social directive and we are maintaining the port directive. because, under the 'better lawmaking' initiative, 60 european parliament texts in the course of the procedure have been withdrawn, and yet the directive on port services is maintained. because in reality this text gives a lot of substance and gives reason to all the outspoken eurosceptics, the most furious against europe. i, who fought for europe, consider this an insult to us. i know how you feel, commissioner, and i think that the problems facing ports in europe are the problems of over-concentration in the north sea, congestion, the disorganization of road traffic on the continent, the safety of the straits - we can see what has happened again in the pas-de-calais - and the problems of land use. a port is first and foremost a site, it is a strategic site, it is not a free service, it is not a supermarket. this is the way you will have to design the new initiative tomorrow. (applause from the left)
mr president, the directive on port services which is being proposed for the second time completely turns its back on the general interest, on improving the living conditions of european citizens. worse, it serves only the financial interests of the large transnational shipping companies to the detriment of all the players in the port chain, from the docker to the small entrepreneur. its sole purpose is to break the statutes, the social protections, to drive down wages to enrich a minority at the expense of human security and the environment. the social model of this directive is the law of the jungle; self-help is the rebirth of slavery! all the technical and nautical professions, all the european trade unions, are unanimous in their rejection of this port of bolkestein. yesterday i marched with the 10,000 dockers from all over europe in front of the parliament. i can testify to their determination to block this vicious directive. i can assure you that voting for such a directive means taking responsibility for blocking many ports in the union with hard strikes, with all the economic consequences that this entails. i would remind the commission, as others have, that we, the representatives of the peoples of the union, have already rejected this directive. to propose it again in almost identical form is a political provocation against parliament, against all the port authorities. in the name of building a different europe with a high level of social and democratic integration, we call for this directive to be rejected.
the commission's vice-president mr president, even though it was not a concert of praise, i listened very carefully to each and every one of you. first of all, it is useful to recall the history of this proposal, which comes from the previous commission and from my predecessor. i can understand, however, that parliament was surprised, mr president, that this proposal was again put before it, and i can understand that this approach may have shocked some of you. i would simply like to mention a few points which, without justifying it, also explain why this proposal has been put back on the table. firstly, because we feel the need, as some of you have pointed out, for a clear legal framework to encourage port investment. 90% of our european exports pass through our ports. we need modern, efficient ports. secondly, this proposal was presented with a very strict limitation on self-help, which was undoubtedly the subject of the most serious criticism at first reading. thirdly, mr president, as a person with social responsibilities, i cannot allow it to be said that this proposal would violate all existing social rights in the port sector. the commission has no intention of reducing the social rights of workers in this sector. the commission has even included in its proposal an obligation for all providers of port services to receive an authorization requiring compliance with the minimum rules of community social law. moreover, article 4 of the proposal is a safeguard, stating that the directive will in no way affect the application of national legislation on the conditions of employment of persons. i would simply say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that i would never have put this proposal forward if it had seemed to me personally to present such serious risks as some of you have thought it to present. i wouldn't have done it in my soul and conscience. i must say, however, that the debate was useful and shed light on all the aspects of a port policy which cannot be reduced to the subject of this text. many of you have mentioned that other issues were very important. for example, better transparency of service costs. for example, the establishment of fairer competition between ports. for example, the need to stimulate investment to further increase our port capacity. i am therefore well aware that a port policy cannot be reduced to a text of this nature and the debate has been very useful in this respect. it has also, but i had already discovered it during this year, which was my first year as transport commissioner, highlighted the very wide diversity of port situations in europe. we are facing a problem here too. some of you have pointed out, not without reason, that such different situations from one port to another cannot be handled by excessive centralism, and i agree with them. we are also faced with a very rapid evolution of the technologies used in ports, which also introduces a factor of difference compared to the situation when this proposal for a directive was conceived. i would say that on the one hand the debate was useful, and on the other hand your committee did a very good job. it is true that i would give my full agreement in advance if parliament were to go so far as to discuss the amendments of its committee. yes to the extension of the authorisation deadlines. yes to the transitional regime, mr jarzembowski. yes also to the compromise amendments on investment protection made before the directive came into force, provided, of course, that the aims pursued, namely non-discriminatory and equitable market access for all, are respected. it is obvious, and this is a paradox, that the commissioner speaking to you, ladies and gentlemen, had hoped that you would give your opinion, mr president, on the text as amended by your committee. and the paradox is that you're going to have to make a judgment on the original text. i am not going to be accused of trusting parliament when i say that i thought that the improvements made by parliament in this area and in this text were excellent and indeed made it possible to respond to a number of justified criticisms. but it is! i am aware that there are two kinds of reactions among you. there are those who say that the original text is uncorrectable and then there are those who say that it could be corrected. that is your rapporteur's thesis. mr president, my task is difficult. i want to express my respect for parliament: on the one hand i must respect the work done by your committee and on the other hand i must also respect the opinion which will be expressed in a vote. is it not reasonable to wait until the vote so that i can draw all the necessary conclusions? it seems to me that in a good democracy there may be an opportunity to vote, i believe, and it is not an insult to parliament to ask it to give its opinion, perhaps regretting that this procedure does not allow it to give its opinion on a text improved, i do not hesitate to say, by the committee. in any case, mr president, and i say this with a certain solemnity, it is quite obvious that, having listened carefully to the whole of this debate, i shall draw all the necessary conclusions from the vote in parliament tomorrow. i believe that this is a way of respecting parliament, while at the same time recognising the correctness of a number of arguments, which would also allow me to better conceive the whole of a port policy for europe. i thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and once again i am only making a commitment that once your vote is cast, we will draw the necessary consequences. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, tomorrow, at 12 noon, and it is for you to draw all the necessary conclusions. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
by torpedoing this second proposal for a directive before our first reading, and at a time when the jarzembowski report was making real progress and providing a good basis for work, the left and some trade unions are plunging port services back into legal uncertainty and political instability. the withdrawal of self-help, the recognition of maritime safety criteria and of professional qualifications in the selection procedure for the provision of services were positive advances compared with the first proposal for a directive. european ports need to invest to grow and respond to the increase in maritime traffic. a port like marseille needs fair and fair european competition to defend its assets and jobs. our community fleet needs efficient and competitive port services. this proposal, although imperfect, would have brought legal certainty and stability to a booming sector. i remain opposed to the rejection of the text, which is tantamount to abandoning our responsibilities. if it were to pass, i would like the commission to propose a green paper on port policy and to consult all the parties concerned. i would like to end by thanking the french police who have ensured the security of parliament in the face of yesterday's intolerable demonstrations.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on - the report by mr saïd el khadraoui, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the development of the community's external aviation policy agenda (2005/2084 (ini)) (a6-0403/2005) and - the report by mr roberts zīle, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on relations with the russian federation and china in the field of air transport (2005/2085 (ini)) (a6-0375/2005).
thank you, mr titley. i think our colleagues and friends will have taken note of all these unfortunately very sad meetings.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
we have now finished the first voting session of 2006.
in writing. nothing in mr catania's report on european citizenship was worth supporting. but two proposals were particularly shocking. first, the demand for european union citizenship, including the right to vote and stand as a candidate in local, national and european elections, for all residents of a country, regardless of their nationality. secondly, the requirement for the harmonization of the rights of the nationality of the member states, on the pretext that their difference creates discrimination for non-europeans in access to european citizenship as defined today by the treaties. how far will the madness go? the only way to become a citizen of a country is to have that country's nationality. the conditions for acquiring the nationality of a state are a matter for the exclusive sovereignty of that state. giving foreigners the right to vote without their nationality gives them a double right, the right they can exercise in the host country in addition to the right they can continue to exercise in their home countries. so it is really an unfair measure. being someone's guest does not give you the right to meddle in their affairs. for all these reasons, he is glad that the report has been rejected.
in writing. the concept of 'citizenship of the union', which does not even have the qualification of european, is a machine for destroying our national rights to identity and sovereignty. the catania report provides the proof of this, which seeks to impose a vast set of rules in which the french, the poles, the spanish, the italians, the germans and the british will have disappeared, replaced by 'citizens of the union' enjoying the same political rights. article 17 of the report, which calls on the member states to grant the right to vote and stand as a candidate in national elections to any resident 'citizen of the union', 'without distinction as to nationality', would allow a czech resident in france to take part in the election of the president of the republic. this right to vote would even be extended to non-european immigrants, since article 18 proposes to 'extend to nationals of third countries residing in the european union the rights of citizens of the union'. the peoples of europe, threatened with being overwhelmed by a global immigration, need not european citizenship but the reaffirmation of their national rights. the french in particular are increasingly demanding a reform of the nationality code based on the principle that "being french is inherited or deserved".
in writing. while europe is going through a crisis of both representation, which has been manifested in particular by the french and dutch rejection of the european constitution, and of democratic participation, with a growing generalization of abstention from european elections, it has not ceased, year after year, and this since the maastricht treaty of 1992, to try to force us to swallow the pill of european citizenship. once again, this is a machine for crushing nations and national identities to replace them with a european identity. this new 'package', which has come straight from the bureaucratic upper echelons of the euro-federalists, is fully involved in the process of submersion and immigration-invasion desired by the commission. the right of every citizen to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states is conceived as the central right of european citizenship. the efforts of brussels to simplify and relax the conditions for entry and residence on european territory are therefore understandable, since they are a condition for the acquisition of this new citizenship. the dictatorship of the ready-to-think is under way by the systematic destruction of national values and identities. it is true that it takes courage today to display and defend a national conscience!
in writing. trafficking in women and the sexual exploitation of children are increasingly becoming a major parallel economy in europe. according to the un, nearly 4 million women and children are reported to have been abused or raped. the inevitable diversification of the forms of trafficking in human beings is also taking place. increased sex tourism and demands for children for economic exploitation (beggars, pickpockets, dealers, black-market labour, etc.), all forms of crime and exploitation which are, in most cases, the work of organised criminal groups. because of the dangerous schengen agreements which have removed all controls at the union's borders, they are used as drug smugglers or thieves. in addition, if the authorities arrest these minors, they will be exempt from prosecution. to claim to be acting to prevent all forms of trafficking in human beings is to attack these mafias, these illegal traffickers who are constantly expanding in a europe open to all the four winds. the addition of community programmes in this field and the pious wishes of the many ngos will do nothing. only if the people and our elites wake up to the ultra-liberal and pro-immigration policy of brussels can we hope to have a sense of security in europe.
in writing. worldwide, the number of women and children trafficked is estimated to be between 700 000 and 4 million per year. according to the un, 1.2 million of them are children. my colleague's report starts with a dramatic observation: despite the measures taken so far by the member states and even by europe, human trafficking is now considered to be the fastest growing criminal activity compared to other forms of organised crime. and unfortunately, the accumulation of community texts, resolutions or numerous reports by ngos on this global phenomenon will not put an end to it. the causes are identified: poverty, social exclusion, unemployment, lack of border controls, which allows the development of clandestine channels of organized crime of all kinds, violence against women, education, the explosion of pornography or the disappearance of moral standards, but the solutions proposed in this report are very vague, general and partial. the first step in the effective fight against all this organised trafficking in human beings is to re-establish controls at the internal borders of the member states. their abolition with the schengen agreements was one of the reasons for the development of this whole sex industry in europe.
mr president, i was present yesterday and i do not see my name in the minutes. thank you for taking note of this.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is faced today with the need to reform its sugar sector. we all know that this reform is unavoidable. it responds to the concern to bring the common organization of the sugar market into line with the principles guiding the new common agricultural policy. it also responds to the need to adapt to changes in the rules of world trade. however, we must not lose sight of the consequences of the coming changes for the women and men who live off the sugar production in the fields and in the factories of the community and in the developing countries. in this context, it is important that the adjustment of the european sugar sector does not result in the dismantling of our sugar com, in the gradual abandonment of our production capacity, in the sacrifice of our producers and those of the poorest countries, caused by an uncontrolled opening up of world trade. the reform is certainly indispensable, but it can only achieve its objectives if the search for efficiency is carried out in compliance with the requirements of social justice. this double perspective, which is a source of balance, is the guiding principle behind the three reports on which the european parliament is called upon to give its opinion this week and which were voted on almost unanimously by the committee on agriculture and rural development on 29 november. these texts are the result of several months of discussions and hearings in the committee on agriculture, of exchanges of views with you, madam commissioner, and with your services, as well as with the various parties concerned at the professional level. they reflect a compromise, negotiated and approved by a large majority of the political groups in this parliament. this compromise is based on four main points. the first is the introduction of flexible sugar market regulation. flexibility, therefore, through the gradual introduction of a market logic in the sector: it is the reference price, the source of greater competitiveness in the sector. but also regulation, to avoid the disastrous consequences of a fully liberalised sugar market. internally, this means that the intervention system will be maintained temporarily in order to guarantee market stability during the next four years, which we all know will be economically difficult. on the external side of the reform, the concern for regulation is to maintain control of sugar imports from the least developed countries. it is essential today to take account of the damage caused by uncontrolled opening up of trade, as the recent example of the western balkans has shown us. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. this mechanism would help to combat destructive triangular trade, while ensuring that the least developed countries have their local populations working in the sugar sector benefiting from the preferential trade regime with the european union. without any impact on the prospects for the development of sugar production in the least developed countries, the mechanism is fully in line with the objectives of the 'everything but arms' initiative. the second major aspect of the compromise which parliament is voting on is the implementation of european solidarity, particularly in relation to the most fragile regions. while the introduction of trade regulation is a means of stabilising markets and avoiding too abrupt price fluctuations in the future, it must be accompanied by measures to cushion the impact of the reform on the populations most affected by the cessation of activity, in particular the most vulnerable populations. i would mention farmers first of all, for the loss of income suffered by them must be substantially compensated and part of the aid provided for in the restructuring scheme must compensate those who lose their right to supply and are obliged to make new investments to convert to other crops. then there are the sugar factory workers. these are totally dependent on the forthcoming restructuring of the sector and must be taken into account in the event of industrial closure by strengthening the conditions which manufacturers will have to fulfil in order to have access to the aid provided for by the restructuring fund. finally, to avoid the most fragile regions being the main victims of the restructuring of community production, it is essential that the member states retain the last word as regards the cessation or maintenance of production on their territory. it is also essential to take due account of the specific situations and constraints of the outermost regions in an appropriate manner. the cultivation and exploitation of sugar cane occupies a fundamental and irreplaceable place in the economy, society and culture of the country. in this connection, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for the quality of your listening and for the efforts you have made to ensure special treatment for these regions, particularly in terms of compensation and flow aid. i am convinced that the measures requested by the members of parliament will enable the sugar cane industry in these regions to look to the future with greater confidence. the third axis of the reform concerns the future of the sector through the development of alternative outlets. in a world context marked by rising oil prices and the need to combat greenhouse gases, the production of alcohol in the sugar sector represents an important asset in terms of the development of alternative energy sources. the committee on agriculture and rural development therefore proposes that these developments be anticipated by means of a voluntary public policy, focusing on both the agricultural and industrial sectors: agricultural by measures improving access to aid for energy crops, industrial by adapting the restructuring scheme to allow the creation of bioethanol distilleries. these tools are the components of a coherent legislative framework that would encourage the development of the bioethanol sector, a source of opportunities for farmers and industrialists in the sector. finally, the fourth and last major focus of our work, but not the least: prices. in contrast to the commission's initial proposals, which were drastic for the sector, for the rural fabric and for the developing countries, the committee on agriculture finally decided to reduce sugar prices by 30% in four years, but at a slower and more moderate pace. this level of price reduction would ensure the economic effectiveness of the reform, while helping to mitigate its impact on the industry. in doing so, it would ensure a better maintenance of activity in the production regions and the safeguarding of hundreds of thousands of direct and indirect jobs. this moderation also meets europe's commitments in terms of development, by allowing the acp countries and the least developed countries which export part of their production to the union to maintain profitable prices. at the end of november, in preparation for the world trade organisation conference in hong kong and without waiting for the final vote of parliament, the agriculture ministers of the 25 member states reached an informal and provisional compromise on the broad lines of the future reform. if this agreement was indeed intended to establish a common political line, the fact remains that the media exploitation of it by the various signatories in the sense of an early conclusion of the reform is unambiguous: it reflects, it seems to me, the will of the commission and the council to ignore the european parliament, whose prior opinion is obligatory before any decision is taken. in this sense, i find the procedure totally unacceptable and must be strongly condemned. in any event, this compromise is now on the table and, although it does not follow the amendments proposed by the committee on agriculture to the letter, it is clear that, as it stands, it confirms in a remarkable way the council's rejection of the measures originally proposed. the compromise on the four main lines i have just mentioned marks a significant shift towards the more moderate and balanced measures proposed by the committee on agriculture and rural development. in terms of regulation, it takes up the idea of maintaining the intervention system for four years before switching to a reference price, marking the introduction of market logic in the sugar cmo. secondly and most importantly, it confirms the correctness of the parliamentarians' analysis of the need to maintain a certain capacity to manage the supply of sugar on the community market. while the measures proposed are different, their philosophies converge in the direction of adapting the 'everything but arms' initiative. as regards the implementation of european solidarity, the council endorsed the increase in the aid for farmers, proposing a compensation of 64.2% for income losses, instead of the 60% originally proposed. it also adopted the idea of transferring part of the restructuring aid to farmers, up to 10% of the planned amounts. the proposal by the members for partial coupling and modulation of aid for lessfavoured regions was not accepted. as regards the third axis, alternative outlets, the agriculture ministers of the 25 member states confirmed the possibility of partial dismantling of plants to enable bioethanol distilleries to be developed. the financial incentives for the development of energy crops are also not being met. finally, in the field of prices, the 36% reduction in four years envisaged by the council is less rapid and less drastic than the initial proposals and is in line with the work of the european parliament's committee on agriculture. despite these undisputed and welcome progress, several proposals were not adopted, particularly as regards the tightening of the conditions to be met by manufacturers to qualify for restructuring aid. it is particularly regrettable that the council has so far neglected all the social criteria to be respected, as well as the power given to the member states in the end to validate or not any abandonment of production. moreover, even if this means going beyond the strict framework of this debate and my reports, i must express my indignation at the treatment of the acp countries. in the face of reform, and in particular a price cut with disastrous consequences for many of them, the sum of 40 million euros granted by the council for 2006 can only be seen as a ridiculous and offensive charity. the european union must urgently find the resources to remedy this situation, which is contrary to the repeated statements by heads of state and government in favour of the development of the poorest countries. it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the efforts of the agriculture ministers will have to be continued in the negotiations in february in order to reach a final agreement acceptable to all. in this context, i hope that parliament will vote with the largest possible majority in favour of the three reports before it, in order to send a strong signal to the members of the council that the remaining gaps in the november interim compromise must be filled in the direction of a reform of the sugar com that is both fair and effective.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the reform of the common organization of the sugar market is a matter of great concern both in the acp countries and in the outermost regions. this concern is particularly acute on the island of réunion, where sugarcane remains the main crop. the mobilization of the sugar cane industry has not been in vain. it has led to significant changes in the initial reform plan. we take note of these positive changes and welcome the work done by the committee on agriculture and its rapporteur. but we must remain fully alert. the measures to mitigate the effects of this reform are limited in time and appear as palliative measures whose only objective is to win acceptance of a reform that may have catastrophic effects in the long term. in this sense, the fate of the outermost regions is similar to that of the acp countries. we cannot allow ourselves to believe that the future is assured. it is all the less guaranteed as there are many uncertainties about the post-2013 period. indeed, what will be the share of national compensation beyond the insufficient community compensation and, above all, what about its sustainability beyond 2013? this concern is all the more legitimate as the hong kong summit has allowed for a new debate to take place from 2009 with implications for the european budget, including the common agricultural policy. when we know that a sugar cane strain represents an average of seven years of harvesting and that it must be followed by a new replanting, it is quite possible that these uncertainties could undermine the confidence needed to achieve the replanting objectives hitherto supported by the european union. the question is ultimately whether the sugar cane sector itself can be saved. madam president, i would like to conclude by saying that in the face of this situation where the future of our planters is not assured beyond the life of a strain of cane, we cannot approve the report before us.
madam president, madam commissioner, since 1968 the common market in sugar has been functioning well for the most part, as evidenced by the fact that 20 million were produced, 16 million were consumed and therefore only 4 million were exported against 13 million brazilians. but the free-range cult told us that european sugar was creating economic diabetes in poor countries. so to eradicate poverty in the sugar cane world, we must eradicate sugar in beet europe. d or the three community regulations, with the fall in prices of 36%, and therefore the fall in revenue and even the opening of our market to the triangular sugar trade via the balkans or the ldcs in 2009, to the obvious benefit of the large operators. the result of all this is known. despite the laudable efforts of jean-claude fruteau, we will become sugar importers, european taxpayers will pay some compensation to the acp and, after 2015, the european agri-food tool will be marginalized. but since china and india will be massive importers of agri-food products, brazil will be the one to feed asia while europe will be marginalized. i have only one question, commissioner, why, for the last 20 years, have you not liked european farmers in the... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as is not customary, i shall be expressing a rather favourable opinion on the current process of reform of the sugar cmo, but with a very specific view of sugar in the outermost regions. while the european union has committed itself to reducing its sugar production in order to comply with the rules of world trade, the french overseas departments follow a diametrically opposite logic: that of continuing to develop their production to ensure the maintenance and creation of sustainable jobs and to preserve the fragile balance of both agricultural and industrial holdings. in line with the commission's recommendations, réunion, guadeloupe and martinique can be said to be pioneers in the adaptation of their cane sector. firstly, because their production is far below the authorized quotas and they do not therefore participate in the community's overproduction. secondly, because over the last thirty years the factories have gradually been grouped together, to the point that it is no longer possible to envisage either the abolition or the reduction of activity without calling into question the whole balance of the sector. today, cane is a valuable commodity, fully usable in the production of sugar but also energy, through the use of bagasse or even natural fertilizer. the multifunctional agriculture is not just a theoretical project in our departments, it is a reality. it is because they were pioneers that the doms cannot go any further. while the european commission and the council refused to grant any additional financial concessions to the dom, france was authorised to put in place arrangements for granting state aid to supplement the community fund by the political agreement reached in the council on the eve of the wto summit in hong kong. the compensation for the fall in prices can be envisaged with a certain margin of increase in production, which will restore serenity and visibility to a sector which has been experiencing two years of uncertainty. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr jean-claude fruteau, on his efforts and i would ask you, commissioner, to keep the provisions contained in the council's compromise on sugar from the french overseas departments unchanged in order to ensure the sustainability of this sector.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all the members who have helped to improve my report and i already say that i will support the amendments proposed by the green group. is it necessary to recall the obvious: if all the inhabitants of the earth were to adopt the western way of life, we would need several planets to meet their requirements. it is therefore up to the western model and the european union in particular to bring about a healthy change in its production and consumption patterns. this is the evidence shared by all the members of this house, over and above the traditional political divisions, which has led the commission to integrate the need for sustainable development into the union's priorities. it is now time to take stock of our activities in this area. the results are mixed. we must recognize the progress made, but also point out the failures or, at any rate, the shortcomings. under pressure from public opinion, concerned about the continuing deterioration of our environment, the european union has done much to alert the international community to environmental issues. but not all the speeches inspired by the right assessment of the situation have had any effect. so it is time to act, because there is an urgency, an urgency for a policy of voluntarism to change the climate. this is necessary in view of the scale of the recent natural disasters. the conclusions of the montreal conference are welcome and the strong involvement of the european union representatives is to be welcomed. the eu has also introduced significant legislation to reduce industrial emissions and to improve the energy and environmental performance of its automobile fleet, but the considerable increase in road traffic has undermined its efforts. this illustrates one of the paradoxes facing the european union with the free movement of goods on the one hand and the negative impact of this free movement on the environmental objectives of the european union on the other. there are two ways to answer this question. firstly, to encourage the use of less polluting modes of transport with financial support from the european union for large structural projects. secondly, to integrate the environmental cost of transport into product prices or to tax transport according to its environmental impact. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. is it necessary to recall the still too high levels of chemical pollution? is it not our duty to point out the responsibility of a certain form of agriculture, which is a big consumer of water and various fertilizers? the next reform of the cap will have to take account of this reality and continue with the reform of subsidies and the environmentally-friendliness of aid. urgency of a voluntary policy for the maintenance of biodiversity. we could go on and on. i am thinking of the reports that have been adopted, mrs ries' report and the report that should be adopted on reach. urgency in development aid, as global inequalities are generating more and more conflict and the poorest countries are the first victims of natural disasters. sustainable development is part of the answer, because it represents a model of production and consumption that can and should be extended to all countries. the union must mobilise and propose strong measures to be able to stem the most worrying trends and avoid irreversible situations. to achieve this, quantified objectives for each sector, according to a precise timetable, and above all regular evaluation are essential. but more generally, it is also the political foundations of the european union that need to be reaffirmed. this requires more solidarity and more coordination. the encouragement of widespread dumping is incompatible with the requirements of sustainable development. it also requires the implementation of sustainable development at all international, national and local levels. each legislative proposal would benefit from being assessed from the perspective of sustainable development. we still have some progress to make in this area. similarly, if we want to advance sustainable development, we must no longer accept that the legal basis for environmental or health bills is the sacrosanct free movement of goods. the commission bears a responsibility: environmental protection is not a sufficient priority. although it has just published five of the seven thematic strategies, these do not make up for the weakness of the proposal for the revision of the sustainable development strategy communicated at the end of 2005. i will confess my concern about the proposals which the commission is presenting to us. when i understand, for example, from reading the thematic strategy on waste that we could go back to national approaches where the states themselves would set the modalities for managing their waste, then i think we are taking a step backwards. when the commission announces that it wants to legislate less by refraining from proposing legislation, which is certainly binding on states or industries in the short term, but necessary for the future, it condemns the european union to political undervalues and becomes all the more incomprehensible to citizens as it maintains certain legislative proposals already rejected by the european parliament in the past port services directives or strongly contested by european citizens the directive on services in the internal market. i would like to end on a positive note: all this is bad news for the union but also for the idea we have of development ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, my neighbor reminded me, mr. president, that you play hockey. so you'll forgive me for a few body checks. we all want to be honest, we are all trustworthy, that's clear. my friend albert einstein said to me about quantum theory: if the right question is the important one, then you must always try to find out what will be hidden in the question, because that is ultimately the important one. so i'm following einstein and i want to tell you this. of course you're an honest broker, and everyone should organize their energy however they want. the problem is: where do we prioritize research? we are not going to give priority to the old energy, which is called nuclear energy, or to research in the fields of (a) renewable energy and (b) hydrogen produced from solar energy. you can't do both at the same time. so either water or coal, but you can't have both. you can have the butter or you can sell the butter. you must finally make known what you want, and not just say: i want everything that everyone else wants. i agree with you on the subject of smes, but at some point you have to make a decision here too. we say yes to flexibility, but we also say yes to security. we cannot have a society in which those who have difficulty with flexibility also have to pay the price of uncertainty. this means that we must opt for a system which guarantees flexibility and security. you didn't say that. then you say: we need a market in europe. that's wonderful. we're all for it. you also talked about the services directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. no one is questioning the freedom of services in europe. what we are questioning is that the country of origin principle will mean that social justice in the individual member states will be destroyed. are you for or against? you didn't say anything about that. this is the problem of social justice. it is clear that there is a difference between the right and the left in this parliament. then we come to growth. you were right to mention the qualifications. of course, the eu is not responsible for education, but it can spread good practice. i would like to see a presidency that examines the education system in europe together with the commission and then - like the neoliberal oecd - declares that the german and austrian systems are terrible because they simply do not guarantee equality. this is not what cohn-bendit says, but what the oecd says in the pisa study. we should finally understand that. the so-called german benefits system is a scandal. we should have this checked at european level. let us now move on to what you have not said, mr president. the european model of life is european law. is it possible that there are institutions in this world, namely the cia, which operate in europe in a legal space that has nothing to do with the european model of life? what contribution will the presidency make to support the committee of inquiry of the european parliament and the council of europe and to make it clear at last to the americans and to everyone else in the world that europe is not a space in which any imperial power can use itself as it wishes? and i would also like to hear what conflicts europe is prepared to risk in order to defend the european way of life. so you see, my friend einstein is right: there's a lot to check when someone doesn't talk about certain things. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, your presidency is starting on a roll: parliament's likely challenge to the directive on the liberalisation of port services, the european council's resistance to the draft financial perspective... you inherited a minefield. have a good one! some of your predecessors have seen their image change from triumphant assurance to pitiful failure in the space of six months. you are beginning your presidency with more modesty and i think you are right. i will dwell on just one passage in your memorandum, when you refer to the debate on the constitution, you write in paragraph 8: 'we are happy, the citizens' concern, the concern for the context of globalisation and the maintenance of european living standards, the desire to create more space for growth'. it is about strengthening confidence in the political decision-makers of the union. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. as a famous ancestor once said, "you can't judge a pudding by its taste". in this respect, i cannot see any more eloquent gesture than a clear and public call for the rejection or definitive withdrawal of the draft directive on services, as well as any other text which is inspired by the same liberal principles. last thursday my group met in brussels, on the future of mr bolkestein's emblematic text, with more than two hundred social actors from all over the union, from the confederation secretary of the european trade union confederation to the representatives of the social forum in poland and romania, as well as many local, regional and national elected representatives. all expressed their strong opposition to the commission's text, which was described as very dangerous by the leaders of the esc, for example. you yourself, mr president-in-office, took note at hampton court last october of the real phenomenon of rejection of this draft directive in most of our countries as soon as its contents became known to our fellow citizens. "we can't save him, we have to remove him", you said, according to some indiscretions. we do indeed see this as the way forward, but not to come back with a new, slightly crumbly bolkestein light, as one of the leaders of attac called it at our meeting last thursday. in fact, this dossier has served as a warning of what more and more europeans no longer want: the competition of workers and its corollary, the levelling down of social acquis and rights. this is the same logic that is rejected by the workers of ports throughout the union, including all the trade unions. the same applies to the swedish workers in the highly symbolic vaxholm shipyard case. similar echoes are coming from finland, scotland and ireland. subsequently, over the years, we have gone from building europe by harmonizing national legislation, that is, by political acts, by votes through which we could at least hope to harmonize from above, to integration through the market, that is to say through competition at all costs, whose natural orientation is levelling down. you will not win the confidence of europeans, mr president, without a significant break with this liberal logic, so as to put the worker and the citizen, not the market, at the centre of the european project. it is in this hall that your presidency will be judged in six months. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
mr president, mr chancellor, in the süddeutsche zeitung you gave essential information: you pointed out that the court of justice should not, by its decisions, transfer powers to the commission outside the framework of the treaties. we commend you on your lucidity. the case-law in the marks & spencer judgment of 13 december 2005 shows that the court of justice has a teleological interpretation of the treaties which leads it to overstep its rights. we hope that, following your presidency, this house will redefine the role of the court of justice and limit the effects of its decisions. if you want to reconcile the peoples and europe, mr chancellor, you must have only one objective: to use your authority to return power to the sovereign peoples!
mr president, i have listened to you very carefully, mr chancellor, and i wish you every success at the beginning of the year. the british presidency has been one of fine speeches. your presidency must be one of action. it requires humility in proposals and efficiency in action. what europeans expect from you is no longer the grand lyrical leaps, the promises that have never been kept, but something concrete for everyday life. i agree with your desire to restore public confidence, but allow me to be skeptical. i will take only one example, which is particularly close to my heart, that of paediatric medicines. today, our children have very few medicines that are designed specifically for them. we can conclude this matter as soon as possible. our parliament has spoken at first reading and the council has given its political agreement, but the common position seems to be delayed for unjustified reasons. i am waiting, mr chancellor, for your personal commitment here before us to make this text a priority so that it can be brought to fruition under your presidency. i am concerned, however, because i have not seen a single line in your programme on this matter, which is so important for our children in europe and which shows everyone the added value of europe. i expect your support and then you can count on my determination in return. mr chancellor, it will be a difficult task to restore the european parliament's confidence in the council, because europe cannot survive without a real budget. there is so much to do, to build, to develop and to bring to every citizen. but with what the council is proposing, with this bad agreement by the council on the financial perspective, we can, so to speak, immediately stop our parliamentary activities, close the shop, go on holiday. you should be very aware of that! mr. chancellor, i wish you good courage and good luck!
mr president, i could have been an austrian, because i come from a region - brittany - where, in the 15th century, the daughter of the duke was married to maximilian of austria, a marriage which was not consummated, a marriage which was broken, which makes me a frenchman of the 16th generation. i use this historical reminder to get your attention, mr president, and make it a little argument for the budget. first of all, beware of this parliament, it is a parliament in the making, so sometimes it rebels: buttiglione did not swallow the snake! the dockers: they want to serve us the same dish, we won't eat it and we'll vote by simple majority! beware of this parliament - distrust is not the right word - but it can react, it can rebel. so we have to give it a little money, a little more... and i'll point out one area where i would prefer to see a little more money: citizenship, youth, education and culture. put some more in there! why would you do that? because as a frenchman, i am very affected by what happened in my country on may 29. for me, this is a historic date. it is not trivial and the debates in which i have participated have sometimes been cruel: the market, very well, the currency, very well, but put a little more money under this heading! for the european conscience. because history is reversible. any treaty can be broken. (applause) i would like to thank
i congratulate the austrian presidency on its willingness to propose serious ways of improving the decision-making process in the european union. france and germany have also announced proposals to make progress in this area. we can only encourage them to do so, and the european parliament will play its full part in this exercise as from this week. this is not rhetoric, but the need to ensure that decisions on european matters can be taken without delay or obstruction, after thorough consultation. we must move beyond the 'thinking phase' to the realistic and courageous proposals to be implemented in the coming years. for citizens, growth and employment are the issues that concern them most. they therefore require a strong political commitment and a precise programme of action from europe, its member states and its parliament. i hope that the spring 2006 summit will succeed in putting the revised lisbon strategy back on track, so that we can finally break free from the enchantments and focus on the concrete, thus restoring a clear direction to the conduct of european affairs.
mr president, my colleague mr markov had very clearly asked for an electronic check on the vote on amendment no 1. i think the balance of power was the same as for the vote on amendment no 3. i would therefore like to have the vote on amendment no 1 verified.
in writing. while our european ports are among the most modern and competitive in the world, i do not see the need for a directive to liberalise port services in europe. i also do not understand the commission's insistence on imposing legislation which neither european shipowners, nor european port managers, much less dockers, find satisfactory. this is a stubbornness which borders on democratic denial, when we know that the commission dares to reinforce a proposal which the elected representatives of this house have already rejected. by introducing self-help, this text threatens not only the jobs of thousands of workers in european ports, but also the safety of goods and people by competing with precarious crews, often without professional qualifications. i therefore voted against this unjust text to show my solidarity with those who are defending the survival of their profession. and i call on the commission to finally get to work on ensuring a high level of employment and social harmonization from the top, rather than engaging in the systematic and shameless dismantling of the social acquis of our fellow citizens coupled with unbridled social dumping.
in writing. the commission wants to bring into force a directive that was already rejected three times by the european parliament in the last parliamentary term. it's a denial of democracy. there is no reason to adopt this text today, which seriously threatens security and jobs. the self-help system, which allows "non-professionals" to handle the handling and loading of goods, introduces social dumping and jeopardizes safety. none of the dockers, ship owners, pilots or oarsmen are satisfied with this text. so why, if not in the name of liberalism, do we want to turn our ports into supermarkets by selling off port structures to private ownership? european ports are competitive and if we were to legislate, it would be on maritime safety, security of the straits, land use planning and the very high concentration of equipment in the north sea to the detriment of the mediterranean. the commission proposal does not meet the present needs of our ports. it must be rejected. this month the port directive, next month the "bolkestein" directive... when will we listen to the citizens of europe?
in writing. the european commission's directive on the liberalisation of port services is nothing more or less than a bolkestein directive applied to ports. it is being presented again at this assembly, even though it was rejected in its previous version, which was almost identical, a few months ago. like the bolkestein directive, this text organises social dumping within the union itself. like her, he's threatening jobs with the government. like it, it offers no guarantee of competitiveness, growth, efficiency or security. nothing but "liberalisation" in the name of holy competition. and so much for the real consequences. the european ports are probably not as competitive as would be desirable. we may have to clear the land transportation routes. there is no doubt that there is much to be said about certain trade union monopolies and their abuses. but you will not solve these problems by destroying jobs, by proposing ideological texts without impact studies, by opening up our economies to unfair global competition. our primary objective must be to defend european employment for european workers and, for us in the front national, french employment for french workers. our rejection is final.
in writing. i voted against the rejection of the text, because i would have liked to have had a say on the amended text. the proposed amendments would have helped european ports to cope with global competition. the emotion of the moment overwhelmed the future of our ports. i would like to point out the unacceptable attitude of the dockers. we have never seen a national parliament attacked in the way that the european parliament was yesterday. by throwing stones, iron bars and other things, the dockers attacked the parliament which is the most pro-worker parliament in europe. i therefore condemn their actions. if i share their concerns on a few points, i will never give in to violence as a means of pressure. this is an attack on democracy. yes, it is inconceivable that unskilled people work in our ports. but we cannot talk incessantly about economic development, competitiveness, social progress, without giving ourselves the means to do so. it is crucial for the ports of hamburg, marseille or antwerp to offer services at least as attractive as those offered in asian ports. their survival depends on it.
in writing. job cuts, dumping of wages and social standards, lowering of safety standards and professional qualifications - this is what the european commission is proposing in the third version of the directive on the liberalisation of port services. the thousands of dockers across europe who demonstrated in november 2003 to denounce these evils were not enough to make sense of it. the ultra-liberalism which the commission has made a dogma of anti-national and anti-social is not exempt from the rule: like the draft european constitution rejected by referendum in france and the netherlands, the desire to bring the port services back on the european agenda is still omnipresent in brussels. the real younger sister of the bolkestein directive, the directive on the liberalization of port services is only intended to make it possible to organise competition between employees by using underqualified foreign labour on board ships which all too often fly the flag of convenience, to the detriment of national workers. the taliban of free trade, after attacking our public services, our textile, steel and coal industries, are now attacking the workers of the ports, seeking to impose their anti-national philosophy of preferring foreigners to hiring. the national front, as always, is in favour of defending french labour.
in writing. what the commission is proposing with this directive on the liberalisation of port services is nothing more or less than free ports. we don't want to. we do not want to see ships flying flags of convenience, on which unscrupulous ship owners employ poorly trained and underpaid workers. the liberalization that brussels wants at any cost in this area is synonymous with unemployment and social misery. in the name of its ultra-liberal and anti-national ideology, the commission is announcing cost reductions at the expense of security, employment and the quality of services. the demolition of the monopoly enjoyed by dockers will not only lead to yet another social graveyard, but will also create insecurity in european ports and ultimately hinder their competitiveness. in november 2003, thanks to a tremendous mobilisation of dockers and port officials from all over europe, the "bolkestein bis" directive was put on hold, thus preventing the opening of an unfairly stigmatised profession for the benefit of under-qualified third world personnel. once again, it is the preference for foreigners over hiring that is advocated and with it, the end of professionalism, skills, traditions and social acquis.
in writing. if there is one subject that is arousing passion in the european institutions and reactions in the member states, it is the liberalisation of port services. in 2003, the european commission had succeeded in bringing thousands of dockers, mainly from france, england, germany, belgium and the netherlands, into the streets to protest, sometimes violently, against a draft directive that was putting them in a precarious social situation and inevitably leading to significant job losses in their profession. the most controversial aspect was self-help, i.e. the possibility for a shipowner to take charge of certain port services himself, with his own staff and equipment, which had hitherto been reserved for dockers. the text proposed today has not abandoned the principle of self-help, leaving the door wide open for the activities of handling, piloting, towing and mooring to be used by unscrupulous ship owners, sailing on garbage ships, with underqualified and underpaid personnel. whatever the objective pursued, europe must not be built at the expense of safety standards and professional qualifications. once again, our european leaders, safely in their ivory towers, will have to revise their copy or put it away.
in writing. the wild wave of ultraliberalism and unbridled free trade which, for 20 years, swept and smashed our coal mines, steel mills, textile, leather, machine tool, electrical and automobile industries and sowed desertification in our fishing ports, vineyards in languedoc-roussillon, sheep, cattle, poultry farms, banana plantations in the west indies, plantations in réunion, farms, plunging the women, men, workers and workers of our countries into social insecurity, broke itself on the will of the french people expressed by the referendum of 29 may 2005. the people are tired of the dismantling of our social protection and the preference given to the vile exploitation of foreign 'workers' by the bolkestein directive and its little sister, the directive on port services. the european parliament's front national meps were the majority in parliament on wednesday, 18 january 2006, and for the second time they refused to allow european dockers, port pilots and all our personnel in the docking and handling areas to be sacrificed in europe for the sole benefit of the multinationals that dominate maritime freight.
in writing. i voted for referral back to the transport committee, which would have made it possible to rework the text with new amendments, to consult the various professionals (ship owners, pilots, sailors, tugboat operators, dockers) again or to ask the european commission to withdraw the text, but in a calm manner. i voted against the rejection of the proposal for a directive, firstly because the proposal with the proposed amendments would have been a good basis for parliamentary work: we were only at first reading. many professionals want a regulatory framework and we need european rules for fair competition, to encourage investment in ports and to establish legal certainty in this sector. i also did not want to follow the position of the left, which, by rejecting the text, rejected amendments which provided guarantees for maritime safety, training and social standards. finally, i refuse to give in to the pressure of the dockers whose demonstration on monday was unacceptable: at least 12 injured and €300 000 in damage in strasbourg. i am very sorry that it can be said today that the members of parliament have bowed to the dockers.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution on homophobia in europe because i find it reductive that the fight against homophobia is treated as being primarily against discrimination based on sexual orientation. this confusion between homophobia, defined as "fear of the same", and aversion to homosexuality is a source of misunderstanding. i am naturally in favour of combating all forms of discrimination based on sexual orientation, except for the issues of marriage and children, where political reflection deserves to mature alongside societal demands, but i believe that the issue of unequal treatment of human beings and fear of our fellow men deserves better than this resolution.
in writing. european countries seem to be victims of a disturbing homophobic contagion. homophobia is all the more shocking because it seems "uncomplicated" and spreads in all directions: verbal or physical violence, persistence of discrimination, or the introduction of new ones (the latvian parliament has tabled an amendment to the constitution to prohibit marriages between people of the same sex...). homophobia, whether hidden or admitted, has no place in the european union. non-discrimination is guaranteed in the texts (treaties, the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights). it must be in fact. and it is to the credit of this european parliament that it has always been at the forefront of this fight. he has been committed to advancing rights and ending discrimination (february 1994, september 1996, july 2001, june 2005). he's got to do it again today. that is the ambition of this resolution. it is unequivocal in its condemnation of discrimination in all its forms. it is voluntary, calling for the completion of the 'anti-discrimination' arsenal on the basis of article 13 of the treaty, and a communication on obstacles to the free movement of homosexual couples enjoying legal recognition in the union. it is a clear and necessary political signal. i will vote for it with determination and conviction.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the reflection period decreed by the european council after the 'no' vote in france and the netherlands has had one first result: it has softened the mood. the two co-rapporteurs of the resolution we are discussing have therefore decided to use the unpleasant terms which some of them used to describe them a few months ago, in the opinion of the majority of french and dutch voters. so i thank mr voggenhuber and mr duff for this time, at least in their resolution, emphasizing that these citizens have in fact, and i quote, 'expressed concerns and worries which must be taken into account, their decision must be respected and the causes of these unfavourable results must be carefully analysed'. that's a breakthrough. this would be even clearer if the report stated that the draft treaty is now obsolete and that the debate is now on what should replace it. my group is ready to take an active part in the debate on the future of the union with our fellow citizens. the themes proposed for this debate are, for the most part, suitable for us. the question is: what will be the political outcome of this debate? what profound changes in the orientations and structures of the present union are you prepared to undertake in order to meet the growing demands of most european societies, the most dramatic manifestation of which was the rejection of the constitutional treaty? that's where the stick hurts. the report before us is only intended, i quote, 'to reassure public opinion' - and i quote again - 'that in any event the constitution will come into force in 2009'. it is therefore no longer a debate but a communication campaign. it would be a shame to follow that line. it would be a missed opportunity. that is why my group, almost unanimously, will not take that route.
mr president, i should first like to thank the co-rapporteurs, mr duff and mr voggenhuber. they have done a remarkable job, very open and a great basis for discussion, as they say. i am a former conventionalist, socialist and frenchman, in disarray, and i want, at this point, to intervene in this famous debate on the death or not of the constitution. i have the deepest respect for the people who voted for this text - i myself voted 'yes' - but at the same time we cannot pretend that nothing has happened, that the dutch and french votes do not change the situation. we cannot pretend that there is now only one solution, only one way out, namely the ratification in the same form, after a series of events, of the text rejected by the french and the dutch. that is why we must help the rapporteurs and that is why i have co-signed with them and with pervenche berès a number of amendments which call for taking account of the realities. i would like to mention three amendments: amendment no 18, amendment no 24 and amendment no 27. i think that if we vote for them, if the european parliament votes for them, it will open up a wide range of possibilities, it will not be psychoregulated, it will really contribute to the debate, it will not be locked into a solution or a single word or a single thought. in the end, i want to vote in favour of this text, the french socialists also want to vote in favour of it, but we cannot do so if it is a one-way street. so let us move forward by voting in favour of these amendments tomorrow. (applause) i would like to thank
you see the speck in your neighbor's eye, but never the beam in your own. the same people who yesterday criticised the incredible denial of parliamentary democracy which had led the brussels commission to re-present its directive on port services after it had been rejected, are now ready to vote on a report which, more seriously, is a denial of popular democracy. the european constitution was rejected by two of the founding countries of the european union, the netherlands and france. in the opinion of all objective observers, their citizens voted after having done very serious research. they didn't just vote on a context, they voted against a text. ten member states did not take a position and several of their leaders feel that they do not have to do so. because the constitution, according to the law and its text itself, cannot enter into force, since several signatory states have refused to ratify it. she's dead, you know. but all this parliament proposes is to think about the best way of presenting the dishes in the same terms to the citizens and filling their heads with propaganda campaigns, with the complacent help of the media. this scandal is unacceptable.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i thank charles tannock, who has taken over the task, for his availability and his attention to the very complex issues involved in defining the neighbourhood policy. the neighbourhood policy has been imposed on us with the arrival of new member states and has become, by integrating all the countries bordering the east around the mediterranean, one of the key elements and one of the strong points of the union's external policy. the union has taken on a great responsibility in this action and it will have the heavy task of not disappointing the hope aroused in our neighbours. a new dynamic has been created in these countries, which are now waiting for the union to support them in the process of democratization, stabilisation and sustainable development they have embarked upon. for some countries it is even a prerequisite for future membership. so we must avoid a number of pitfalls if we are to make this neighbourhood policy a success. it must incorporate a multilateral dimension and provide an institutional framework in which partner countries are fully involved in the definition of european policies. it must not be limited to a simple free trade area but must be based on a genuine sharing of common values, democracy and human rights. the neighbourhood policy must work towards consolidating civil society by creating a civil forum where ngos will follow action plans which will not be cooperation plans, commissioner, but concrete and effective plans, with a union determined to monitor them and implement them according to specific criteria. it is with great pride, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that i will support the action plans for the countries of the south caucasus, because if armenia, azerbaijan and georgia are part of this neighbourhood policy, it is thanks to our european parliament and not to the commission and the council! today, these three republics of the former soviet union bear a heavy legacy. with the neighbourhood policy, they must be able to find a way out of their frozen conflicts. the nagorno-karabakh issue must be settled; refugees and especially azerbaijanis must return to their homes; the demolition of armenian historical monuments in nakhchivan are not acceptable; turkey must reopen its border with armenia; russia cannot have a privileged partnership with the union on the one hand and issue passports to georgian separatists on the other. the union must support the peace plan in georgia for south ossetia and help to develop a plan for abkhazia. you see that a strong involvement of the union, which involves the development of a stability pact in the south caucasus to achieve a peaceful resolution of the conflicts, is indispensable and will be a doubly successful strategy. it will enable these countries to find the path to development and lasting peace and it will give our union considerable credit in a region dominated by russian and american influence. let us make the neighbourhood policy the spearhead of a successful overall common security policy!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this resolution on the neighbourhood policy. it provides a comprehensive review of all the priorities set by our institution for this policy: human rights, democracy, immigration, the environment and trade liberalisation. yet one vital area is totally missing. it is about development cooperation. let me remind you that of the 17 countries covered by the neighbourhood policy, 12 are developing countries, a third of which are low-income countries. with the reform of the external action instruments under way, these 12 developing countries will not be covered by the future instrument for cooperation and development. the result is that if no development policy is undertaken under the neighbourhood policy, these 12 countries will no longer receive development assistance from us. but i regret that in a political guideline text as general and extensive as this one there is no reference to cooperation. it is not reasonable to talk about increasing the prosperity of an area without, at the same time, committing to eradicating poverty. are the basic needs of the people of azerbaijan, moldova or palestine being met at the moment? how can these countries fight dictatorship and compete in market economies when a part of the population does not even have access to clean water, social services, health care or basic education? how can we ever hope to achieve the millennium development goals if we are not able to tackle this poverty at the doorstep of europe? i think that adopting a resolution on the neighbourhood policy which so completely ignores the objectives of eradicating poverty is a serious error of judgement which unfortunately places a responsibility on us for the future.
mr president, commissioner, if we want the neighbourhood policy to be a great success, we must ensure the full cooperation of our neighbours. in this context, i would like to draw attention to the fact that, a few weeks after the barcelona summit, most of the heads of state and government of the mediterranean countries, our partners in the framework of the neighbourhood policy, deserted the summit. i think it is important that the commission and the council draw lessons from the attitude of the partner countries and ensure that the same patterns are not repeated in the context of the neighbourhood policy. this was partly due to the disapproval of the partner countries in the face of the very strong pressure exerted on them by the commission and the member states to conclude cooperation agreements on migration policies and the fight against terrorism and the lack of budgetary prospects for the establishment of a real cooperation and development policy. can we be sure that the european union has drawn all the conclusions? all the action plans already being negotiated under the neighbourhood policy contain paragraphs on cooperation for securing the european union's borders: the fight against terrorism, the fight against illegal immigration. it is unacceptable that the european union is pursuing a policy which aims to make the neighbouring countries play the role of policemen on our borders. this is unacceptable, because the partner countries do not agree with it and because the european parliament has already spoken very clearly against this trend. but was he consulted at any stage of the negotiations of these national action plans? the european union's policy must be reciprocal - a prerequisite for its success - that is, it must respond to the interests of both sides. it is also important that the policy of the european union be consistent. we cannot, for example, propose to neighbouring countries that they conclude readmission agreements, even though some member states of the union do not respect the provisions of the geneva convention. nor can we encourage them to respect human rights and democratic principles while at the same time turning a blind eye to the flagrant violations committed in the fight against terrorism. on human rights, the commission is negotiating the setting up of subcommittees on human rights and democracy. these are important places for evaluating our effectiveness in this area. it is therefore regrettable that the european union has resigned itself to not setting up such subcommittees with certain states, such as israel, for example.
the rapporteur. mr president, if i had only one argument to make in defence of this report, i would say that european small businesses represent some 25 million businesses and employ some 95 million people. they are the backbone of the european economy, an important source of jobs and growth, and we must develop their potential. the european charter for small enterprises recognises their importance. it is the only official document devoted entirely to them. this charter has raised many expectations among entrepreneurs. unfortunately, five years after its creation, the results are still very uneven and implementation is still insufficient, even though the charter is a success with professional organisations and 35 countries have signed it. nevertheless, mr president, these small businesses feel that they are orphans in a europe which fails to provide them with a framework for listening, dialogue and work. whether it is in my own country, in marseille, or elsewhere, the heads of small businesses, the craftsmen, see europe as a machine that produces costs and constraints. for these business leaders, the internal market - which is an undeniable success - is not an opportunity, it is a fiction! if these business leaders do not have confidence in european policy, there is a real problem. it is clear that we will not have a good regulatory framework if 98% of the companies in the european union feel that it is not suitable for their business. the charter must therefore be an instrument which will help to restore the trust of small businesses in europe. its implementation should allow measuring the progress made by all states and european institutions in improving the regulatory, financial and political environment in which small businesses operate. that is why we are asking for a more critical annual report. however, i regret that the annual monitoring report this year does not really allow us to measure progress. we call for better implementation of the charter, which is a significant contribution to the european commission's essential commitment to better regulation. we therefore suggest, firstly, that the implementation of the charter be strengthened by ensuring that its 'small and micro enterprises' dimension is maintained with specific actions in their favour; enhanced participation of professional organisations; continued dissemination of best practice and exchange of good practice; continued provision of a specific annual report on the charter. we are not opposed to a reflection on the implementation of the charter, but we ask you not to sacrifice the charter for small enterprises by drowning it in the lisbon strategy. this approach must remain complementary and distinct from other policies for smes and industry. it is also an acknowledgement of a reality which we must take into account: small businesses have specific needs and capabilities which are not those of companies with 250 to 10 000 employees. the principle, which the european commission has formulated, is to think of small businesses. this commitment must therefore be translated into action, as this is not always the case. if we take the reach proposal as an example, we do not have the impression that this principle has been implemented. it was the epp-ed group that introduced the amendments and measures which should make reach sustainable and applicable to small businesses. it is for these small businesses that i emphasize again in my report the importance of regulatory simplification. we ask you again to put in place a clear and precise methodology for impact studies, especially for small smes. this advocacy for the charter and better legislation is at the heart of this report. many other proposals from my colleagues have been included in this report. i thank them for their positive contribution. the commission has already proposed a programme of work, firstly to get to know small businesses better, and lastly and above all to make progress in many areas, such as taxation, investment support, innovation and research. i will not go into the details of the proposals, mr president, but the commission and the member states will find them to be a source of inspiration for action. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am obviously pleased that we have reached a very broad consensus on mrs vlasto's report this evening, and i am pleased to hear chancellor schüssel and then mr barroso tell us this morning how much they are interested in smes and to hear them say that this matter will be discussed at the spring council. i would like to draw the attention of the commissioner and my colleagues to two points. we have been talking about smes as a kind of abstraction, an administrative entity, for which things must be simplified, money must be given, the environment must be promoted, and so on. small business is first and foremost the business of an entrepreneur - i know there are some on the benches who spoke earlier - and it will be 31 years soon since i myself started my first business. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if you ask all the business leaders of these smes in europe, they will tell you one thing: the day is not long enough and at this hour many of them are still at work! we must therefore provide concrete answers, commissioner. let us simplify, simplify, but above all let us apply subsidiarity so that at local level, local authorities, the states and professional organisations can provide their real support! it is not for the european union to do all this itself, but it must do it. the second point concerns our fellow citizens. as has been said, awareness must be raised at school. then i'd like to make a proposal. since there is a competition at european level in singing or football, why not create a european open day for small businesses? why not organise a european day of good practice? these are some ideas for communicating and making our citizens feel the full value of our smes.
mr president, i am glad that small businesses are now at the heart of european news, firstly with the very encouraging words of chancellor schüssel this morning, who made this a priority of the austrian presidency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the debate is at its heart, and that is the debate tonight. in the current difficult economic environment, it is often small businesses and artisans who create wealth and are the main source of jobs, jobs that are not relocated and that help maintain social cohesion by irrigating the entire territory of the union. the european union must vigorously support these small businesses by strengthening the specific instrument of intervention, the charter, and by going beyond good intentions, as mrs vlasto's excellent report calls for. to ensure the creation and transmission of these small enterprises, administrative formalities in europe and in the member states must be reduced; facilitate their access to capital and to european programmes, particularly in the field of research; to improve the dissemination of information on measures in their favour; encourage innovation and fight against counterfeiting. but all this requires ambitious means. so let us hope that the good fairies who have been thinking today about the future of these small businesses - this sleeping giant in the words of chancellor schüssel - will make their wishes come true by allocating the necessary budgets for the various actions and that the good intentions will be guaranteed by concrete financial commitments.
the rapporteur. mr president, you are looking at a copy of our current rules of procedure. according to this regulation, you should have me expelled immediately by your bailiffs, since i'm wearing a t-shirt that has a small political slogan printed on the front and back. but according to our regulations, it is absolutely forbidden to display one's political views in any visual form, whatever the medium. the absurdity of the present system is all the more absurd because in cases of violence, abuse, defamation, insults, in this house or elsewhere, the present rules do not allow us to intervene. our current tools in this area are very weak. nothing or the atomic weapon and the atomic weapon is you, mr president. you can propose to the house that the offender should be punished, but as the offender has almost no rights, you are reluctant to do so and, by hesitating, you risk being punished, mr president. that's why neither you nor any of your predecessors ever used that atomic weapon, and that's a good thing. so we had to change things and i would like to thank you here - i am very touched that you are here so late to chair this debate - and also to congratulate the four fictitious rapporteurs who helped us to reach a consensus: íñigo méndez de vigo for the epp, richard corbett for the pse, ignasi guardans cambó for the liberals and sylvia-yvonne kaufmann for the gue. this report gives us the opportunity not only to develop a more reasonable, more appropriate, more flexible and more proportionate regulation, but also - and this is even better - to advance the individual fundamental rights of each member. for the first time, thanks to this new regulation, we will have primary law protection, which is enshrined in our regulation. we also have protection of membership status. for the first time, an offender will have the right to be informed individually, he will have the right to explain himself to you, mr president. the sanction shall be justified in writing. no more discretion. the infringer will have a right of internal appeal, which will be in addition to a right of external appeal. this appeal shall be adjourned. if our appeal is ever too slow, the sanction will be deemed null and void. the member will also have - and that is all the better - a new right to visual expression. i can finally wear this kind of shirt without your bailiffs intervening, mr president, as long as what i wear is not insulting or defamatory and does not disturb the sitting, which i hope is the case tonight. we're also going to sanctify voting for the first time. at present, if a colleague is expelled for a few days, he loses his right to vote. that is to say, not only is he being punished, but all his constituents are being punished, who are not responsible for his fault. we have therefore chosen to say that democracy is strong enough to go that far, to protect even the worst of the members of this house: those who would not respect democracy. democracy would respect him to the smallest of his rights. but i think it is all to the credit of our assembly. once again, i thank all the fictitious rapporteurs for having helped to achieve this consensus. the safeguard itself is included in the rules of procedure, which now contain the following sentence: 'this rules of procedure in no way impedes the liveliness of parliamentary debates or the freedom of speech of members'. i saved an example for last. you will recall that a year ago in this house a parliamentary group caused a great deal of agitation during the vote on the european constitution. you yourself, mr president, have had a lot of trouble to restore order in this house and to enable it to continue its work. you had shown great calm, but the situation was very difficult and the images of this turmoil outside did not do european democracy any honour. we must certainly expect that tomorrow, when we vote on the subject of our concern, the same group will make a new happening, but of a very different nature. some have come to me to say that they have already integrated the spirit of the new regulation. they're going to use some puppets, show some ostriches; it won't be violent or disruptive and it certainly won't be aggressive. the very fact that they have already incorporated this new regulation shows that we are moving in the right direction. in conclusion, i believe that thanks to the efforts of all our colleagues we will have a living but dignified parliament, a living but dignified parliament, and you can count on your rapporteur, mr president, who is widely known as a political agitator, to ensure that this parliament remains very much alive.
mr president, commissioner, the absence of peace in the middle east is having increasingly dangerous consequences: threats of destabilising the palestinian community, risks linked to iranian aggression, which are hardly tempered by syrian concerns. i appreciate, madam commissioner, the relative optimism in your inaugural speech, but i think that what goes without saying is better said, and i would like to help to build more on that optimism. the disappearance of ariel sharon, in this situation, looks like a catastrophe and has much to fear: this is the view of our media. sharon seemed to be the only one capable of carrying out the astonishing process he had devised of partition, decided unilaterally, as a preparatory step towards peace. i would like to strongly draw your attention to the fact that this is not the time to panic! contrary to the impression given by the media, great men do not make history alone; institutions and situations play a role in it. on the israeli side, the political block to any prospect of peace has been for a very long time due to two factors. the first factor is, in the eyes of many israelis and ariel sharon, the insufficient consideration of israel's security imperative in all the oslo, taba, geneva-type processes. the second is that the main israeli right wing, likud, has never, ever, accepted, in any form, any concession whatsoever, under the pretext of exchanging territories for peace, to its vision of israel in the future, that of the biblical israel, "eretz israel" or "greater israel". but before his accident, ariel sharon had overcome both of these obstacles. he had raised the first by making visible and beginning to execute a plan to gradually conclude peace through partition. many of us in this parliament, madam commissioner, do not like this plan! too much violence, not enough negotiations, and the key is a severely dismembered palestinian state. but it's the only plan that exists, and it has rallied many israelis, because it was the first to reconcile the absolute imperative of security with the prospect of peace. the second blockade was lifted because ariel sharon had the extraordinary courage to break the likud. even though sharon is gone, a new big party has been born, which represents a part of the israeli right ready to make a movement for peace, because it is reassured. this party may be the dominant force in the knesset tomorrow and may join forces with other forces from the centre and the left. the doctrine of the party and its leader, ehud olmert, is not to negotiate, but only to withdraw from the territories. we know that. but, madam, the partisan mechanism in the knesset can only play in the direction of deepening the break with likud and a rapprochement with the parties of amir peretz and shlomo ben-ami: sharon or not, the necessary break is made and the mechanics will play. the israelis, by the way, feel it and show it in the polls. it is not only time to de-dramatise but also to firmly support the current developments, because the palestinian community, even if it is strongly influenced by hamas, will of course follow. peace, commissioner, is the promised land of today and moses also died before he could enter it. (applause from the left)
mr president, at the lisbon european council in march 2000, the european union set itself the ambitious target of achieving a 60% employment rate for women by 2010. i fully support these wishes, and i hope above all that they are not just pious, because in the field of equality between men and women many ideas are put forward, plans are drawn up, dossiers and reports are drawn up, but few concrete results are observed. social, wage and occupational disparities are still a matter of concern in france but also in the whole of europe. whether it is the improvement of childcare services - in particular by increasing the number of available childcare facilities - or the promotion of new forms of work such as teleworking, in order to better reconcile work, family and private life, all these measures contribute to promoting equality between men and women in a much more effective way than the forced and systematic application, advocated by some very active feminist lobbies in the european parliament, of the concept of non-discrimination, which is used all the time and for very ideological purposes. the report by my colleague, mrs estrela, is in that direction and i welcome it. we all have something to gain from being pragmatic and common sense. finally, it seems to me particularly important to take account of cultural and ethnic differences, which are often a hindrance to the promotion of equality between men and women.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, mrs edite estrela, on her excellent work, which i hope will inspire you, commissioner. how can we still claim to make the eu economy the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010 without eradicating the persistent disparities between women and men? unfortunately, halfway through the lisbon strategy, we can only see that it has failed to achieve its objectives. the gender dimension cannot be confined to just a few areas of this strategy. it is an essential element, horizontal and transversal, which is not just a box-checking exercise in an impact assessment. it involves focusing on the systems and structures that create and maintain inequalities and accentuate differences. three points higher for women's unemployment than for men's! 33% of women work part-time without having chosen it, compared with 6% of men! only 10% of them get to high-level positions! for the same job, the pay gap varies from 6 to 30%, even though equal treatment has been a fundamental principle of community law since 1957! if europe is to achieve its growth and employment objectives, it is time for a change in mindsets. the working time of women must remain a choice and not a constraint which leads them into a precarious situation. women's access to lifelong learning must be optimised. real political will must lead to the creation of family-oriented measures to enable men and women to reconcile work, family and social life: increasing the number of affordable childcare facilities, promoting parental leave for men to enable them to invest more in child rearing. it is urgent to make gender a top priority and to fulfil the promise of a europe based on the values of democracy, equality and social justice for all women and men.
the rapporteur. mr president, i entirely agree with the view just expressed by the representative of the ppe group: it was indeed a request from the committee on agriculture. the commission, as the commissioner said two days ago, is prepared to allow the member states to increase the percentage by 10%. the question is settled from that moment on, and i am therefore opposed to referral back to committee.
mr president, i am referring to rule 138 on translations. amendment no 1 tabled by the ind/dem group proposes an alternative draft resolution which understands and respects the rejection by our peoples of any superstate and therefore of any constitution. however, the translation of this amendment, especially the english version, has repeatedly betrayed the original meaning. so where we speak of 'continuing the construction of europe', a politically neutral expression, the translation is 'european integration', a term denoting the supranational process which we reject. it is no doubt a pavlovian reflex that is contaminating many of the offices of this house, still refusing to admit that another europe is possible. i would remind you that only the original french version is authentic.
mr president, what is the point of this so-called change to the rules of procedure against chaos in the house, when this parliament is one of the most flat, dull and sad houses in the world? and this will not only concern the house, but also what is happening in the corridors! a number of our colleagues were forced to remove an authorized exhibition, which showed the similarities between the death culture of the hitler regime and the death culture of today's hedonistic society, both inspired by eugenic principles! but as i speak in this house, another exhibition is extolling the alleged merits of maoist democracy in china, where the labour camps still hold tens of millions of prisoners for crimes of opinion and where the totalitarian communist ideology, which is still in force, has committed its most terrible massacres! this report comes from a respectable man, mr onesta, but he belongs to a group which has made the most incredible noise against a head of state present in this house, president jacques chirac, who had just been elected at the time. today's truth, tomorrow's error: double standards, double standards depending on whether you belong to a large group or a small one!
in writing. the report by french green mep onesta on the sanctions imposed on members for disruption in and out of the chamber is a bad blow to freedom of expression, especially for political minorities. it is a beginning of a return to a form of totalitarianism, a form of normalization as it was called in the days of triumphant communism, which is not surprising coming from the greens. it is clearly not enough for the european parliament that minorities, especially non-attached members, are subject to outrageous discrimination under the law of members; we must go further and punish them, including financially, for what the majority considers to be "politically incorrect" behaviour. this regulatory coup d'état is intolerable and liberticidal. i think that at a time when there are more than 20 million unemployed in europe and when immigration is overwhelming our nation states, the european parliament has better things to do than to flout parliamentary democracy, even if it is european.
in writing. this report, written with the pen of a great scientific authority in parliamentary law, which, when read, one feels that it has been used by the great masters of the discipline such as eugène pierre, for example, is based on a philosophical choice. the oligarchy, that is, since aristotle, "the government of the few". the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. since all the members of parliament are from the sovereign, popular or national, it is the latter that will be hierarchically placed under the guardianship. since 1791, france had already invented parliamentary sovereignty, which took precedence over popular sovereignty. but since the parliament was only the representative of a social class, the bourgeoisie and other so-called liberal professions, it was they who had confiscated popular or national sovereignty for their own benefit. this group of oligarchs sets up in this report the instruments to neutralize some possible deputies of the people who would have escaped the electoral and media filters. the report, which should have been limited to one word: 'freedom' for the representatives of the peoples, is therefore summed up in one word: oligarchy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague dominique vlasto on the implementation of the european charter for small enterprises, which are at the heart of wealth creation and social progress for a very large number of our fellow europeans. i support the proposals to give the international cooperation of chambers of commerce an important role in the competitiveness of small businesses and the recognition of craft enterprises. this report rightly points out that neither the european commission nor some member states have taken account of the considerable challenge posed by the retirement of millions of small business owners. finally, every effort must be made to simplify and secure the legal, fiscal and social life of this economic fabric which is crucial for growth, employment and consumer satisfaction.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises play a key role in competitiveness and innovation, in vocational training and even in spatial planning. they create jobs and wealth. this is all the more remarkable as they are often burdened with tax, social and regulatory burdens that are beyond their capacity to bear. that they are subject to unbridled global competition with fewer weapons than the big groups to defend themselves against; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take account of the fact that access to capital, which is essential for investment, is more difficult for them and that the transfer of capital often puts their very existence at risk. can the solution come from brussels? i doubt that. european policies have never really taken account of the interests and specificities of smes, which represent 99% of enterprises. community support or programmes are mainly available to firms with specialised services. european regulations are staggeringly complex, and the standards imposed are costly to implement. the trade policy of opening up to unfair and savage global competition adds to the difficulties. so yes, free enterprise creates jobs and wealth. yes, we must promote it. but for the european union to play a role in this, it will have to stop being a technocracy more devoted to europeanist ideology than to the interests of europeans.
in writing. let's stop taking back from one hand what we give from the other! this report attempts to strike a balance between protecting the incomes of european and acp farmers. it thus involves a smaller price reduction spread over time to enable the acp countries to absorb the shock of the reform better, and a substantial increase in access to the european market for sugar from the ldcs. the two amendments by the pes are also in the right direction, providing for the total abolition of european export subsidies (by 2013 at the latest) and compensation for the restructuring of the acp sugar sector, on the basis of an estimated need of eur 200 million per year. i would have liked the eu to go further, to provide the funds for this restructuring immediately, instead of the promised 40 million (we had proposed twice as much in the committee on development). i would also have liked the date of entry into force of the 'everything but arms' initiative to be as early as 2009 and for the union to abolish the possibility of exporting sugar at low prices under the c quota. but we are continuing the fight in the context of the negotiations on the financial perspective which are under way.
in writing. the commission's philosophy is malthusianism. his slogan was "no future". his inspiration is nihilism. destroy it destroy the coal mines, the steel mills, the textile industry and above all agriculture. there's grain land, we're going to set it aside. there is milk, we have quotas. there are vines, they're being picked. but all of this was not enough to stop life. so we re-founded the cap. we invented decoupling. that is, getting paid for not producing. because that's the philosophical line: don't create. with one ideal: a vast continental retirement home, fueled by massive layoffs. the redesign of the sugar cmo is a summary of this ideology. there are sugar refineries. we're gonna pay them to stop producing. for every ton of oil that is not produced, we're going to pay them 400, 500, 600 euros. for four years. after that, there will be no producers, only consumers who will no longer have the means to consume, so all that remains is to eliminate them. long live the death ! that brahmin rallying cry.
mr president, in connection with the duff-voggenhuber report, some members have made very amusing statements, comparing members who disagree with them to ostriches. they did so with humour, and i commend them for doing so, because last year they did so with violence on the same subject. i would like to speak in the name of this poor bird, because as a naturalist i have never seen an ostrich bury its head in the sand. but it is well known that when the lion approaches the ostrich, to protect its young, it will sacrifice itself by moving away a little and allowing itself to be devoured by the lion. so the ostrich is here to sacrifice itself for future generations - it's a symbol of courage and devotion! so for any scientist or naturalist, to be called an ostrich is not an insult but an honor!
in writing. with this report on the period of reflection, the parliament had a unique opportunity to do useful work: it could have been the first european institution to launch a reflection on the realistic options for getting out of the situation created by the double non-french and dutch, around two orientations: a constitutional text focused on parts i and ii and a revision of part iii devoted to policies. this was the wish of the green and liberal co-rapporteurs, whose constant efforts i welcome, with whom i had co-signed amendments in favour of a 'constitutional core'. the epp and pse rejected this pragmatic and useful policy line, reaffirming their attachment to the current text of the constitution. it is the idea that it is still possible to have the french and dutch voting on the same text. this refusal to allow the people to vote is fruitless, whatever the positions of the various parties: that is why i am pleased that the french socialist delegation, with a few exceptions, abstained. in the end, the only useful message that emerges from this text is that the reflection period should continue until june 2006.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported the report by charles tannock on the european neighbourhood policy, which was adopted on the same day as the duff-voggenhuber report on the future of the constitutional cycle. our parliament has thus adopted a coherent and ambitious political position, which i welcome. we will not have ratification of a constitutional treaty without clearly defined borders, so that it is possible to say which states on the eurasian continent are not going to join and which must actively prepare for it. moreover, the european union's ambitions require a common foreign and security policy which, before placing the union on the great international diplomatic stage, should focus on its sphere of influence, through partnerships with the states and possible political communities in our neighbourhood. the whole purpose of this useful contribution by parliament is to define the future content of this policy with russia, turkey, the middle east and the maghreb. finally, i would like to welcome the need expressed in the report to define this neighbourhood policy in the near future, in good agreement with existing pan-european organisations such as the oecd and the council of europe.
author. mr president, the tragic events in cairo on 30 december resulted in the deaths of 27 people, according to the egyptian authorities, but in reality there are many more: dozens, even hundreds, up to 220 dead according to some sources. these events must be condemned with the utmost firmness and responsibility clearly defined. the responsibility lies first and foremost with the egyptian police, whose violence during the intervention must be denounced with the greatest force. unfortunately, they have a reputation for systematic and excessive violence. unhcr also has a share of responsibility. first, by allowing the situation to escalate. secondly, by using ambiguous, even contradictory language about the status of sudanese people. one need only read the correspondence between the unhcr office in cairo and the egyptian authorities to see this. finally, by directly requesting the intervention of the egyptian authorities, thus taking the risk of flooding. we must also not lose sight of the impasse in which these actors have found themselves. indeed, following the signing of a peace agreement on 26 may 2004 in sudan, all resettlement programmes have been stopped, even though the situation in sudan, as we know, remains very unstable, as is shown by numerous reports, including the recent report by human rights watch. the member states which refuse to take in refugees on the sole ground that a peace agreement has been signed are therefore equally responsible. we cannot decently ask egypt, which already hosts between 2 and 3 million sudanese, including 27,000 registered with unhcr, to take in all the refugees in that country. for all these reasons, as my colleagues have said, it seems to me important that an inquiry be carried out. but it is also important that the egyptian authorities release all those still detained, refrain from any expulsion and give unhcr representatives free access to examine the refugee claims. it is equally important that this tragedy be placed in the context of general asylum and immigration policy. we cannot refuse asylum to people who are in danger in their own country and this is not an egyptian-sudanese matter, just as ceuta and melilla was not a spanish-moroccan matter. i call for the euro-african conference on migration to be held as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i can only echo the statement made by the honourable member, mr smith. we do seem to be going over the same subject again and again, with no real result. is it because cambodia is too far away? human suffering, regardless of where it happens, is always the same when it comes to the individual. i should cite what human rights watch said about cambodia in 2005: ‘the political opposition was effectively dismantled with the arrest or threat of arrest of opposition parliamentarians and the impunity of perpetrators of human rights abuses continued. political trials demonstrated the government’s ongoing control, interference and intimidation in the work of the courts.’ that is the bleak situation in cambodia. i should remind you that in 1997 the only opposition politician, sam rainsy – who, paradoxically, is protected by this house’s freedom-passport initiative – was giving a speech in the capital when several grenades were launched into the crowd in front of him and at least 16 people died. that is what happens when an opposition leader makes a speech in the capital of that country. we cannot continue just paying lip service; we must put our money where our mouth is. as mr smith said, one of the most effective penalties would be to stop giving money to cambodia as long as the criteria of democracy and human rights are not fulfilled. also, a travel visa ban on officials would be very effective, because the elite of that country come to the capitals of europe to shop and so forth. in contrast, however, free trade has to be retained. trade sanctions will only increase the poverty and misery of the people. the sympathy of this house is with those people in cambodia who are fighting for democracy and human rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is indeed difficult, and i need no one in palestine or iran to intervene. i believe that the only chance the european union has is clarity. clarity and clarity! we must be clear. the hamas charter of 1988 is very interesting. and if you only read, you will be shocked. but hamas has now been elected and we must make clear in this debate that it is not hamas, but president abbas, who is responsible for foreign policy and relations with israel. we must finally give him a chance, we must finally tell israel: give him a chance to prove that there is a different policy than that of hamas. if we don't reach that, then we'll lose. we must be clear about hamas, and not only in the peace question, but also in fundamentalism. it is a danger to a fundamentalist society. but we will only be happy if we are also clear with israel. conquest and occupation are no future for the palestinians. that must understand israel. it is necessary to act in this policy in a different way. the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process in the middle east. when you look at our history, your history for example, from the moment you demonstrated against nato to the moment you became its secretary general, when you look at my history, when you look at the history of joschka fischer, you say that you should never despair of the ability of people to change, and that is true for hamas. but we must not simply abandon yesterday. we must make this change in hamas, because it is necessary for our security. we can only be forced to do so if israelis and palestinians really understand that there is no debate for the european union: the right of israel to exist will no longer be discussed, and we will not accept any discussion about it. (beifall) the right to a palestinian state will no longer be discussed, and we will not accept any discussion of it. both are unzertrennlich! and if we do that, then we will have the opportunity, even in this difficult situation, to act. genauso is dealing with iran! iran has a right to energy security. i am not a green for nuclear energy, but we cannot have states that swear by nuclear energy alone and at the same time say to the iranians: you cannot do that! that is immoral, totally immoral! the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. this is our task: clarity and security, then we will come through.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr high representative, madam commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to take the rare opportunity of mr solana's presence in this chamber to address some aspects of the common foreign and security policy which are of particular concern to my group. i shall be relying in particular on the council's operational programme for 2006 as it is the most recent reference document. what do we see? first, the excessive emphasis on the military dimension of the cfsp. the catalogue of forces, rapid reaction operations, tactical groups, the european defence agency and the strategic partnership between the european union and nato are all covered with a veritable glut of interest. the twenty-five thus feel that they are playing in the court of the great, a false pride and misplaced pride. on the other hand, and this is my second observation, the great open wounds in some of the most sensitive regions of the world, which would call for the expression of european political creativity in the face of the irresponsibility of the american leaders and their allies, are marginalized in the cfsp agenda. in the operational programme for 2006, the middle east is described in less than two and a half lines on 14 pages of text, to show us, i quote, that 'the european union will continue its efforts to implement the road map'. not a word about the israeli leadership's choice of a unilateral strategy which is precisely the opposite of the spirit of the road map and of any peace process. iraq, on the other hand, is entitled to three lines, without any mention of the war or the fiasco of the bush strategy which is plunging us all into a dramatic impasse. this brings me to our main criticism, which i had the opportunity to express here in june 2003 when your report on the european security strategy, which is still in force, was published. it contains an apocalyptic description of the new threats without ever analysing their root causes and it says, with a wink, that 'working together, the european union and the united states can be a formidable force for good in the world'. what is your assessment, mr high representative, of the two years of implementation of this strategy? has the world become a safer and fairer place? i think that the case of the middle east, which i shall now deal with, is a good criterion of truth in this respect. in this connection, i should also like to point out to our colleagues that mrs leila shahid, the new palestinian delegate general to the european union, is in our gallery and i would like to warmly welcome her. (applause) i would like to thank even before the palestinian elections, i had asked for the question of the european diplomats' report on jerusalem, which was kept under wraps by the council so as not to alter its relations with the israeli authorities, to be put on the agenda of parliament. where are we today? i have just returned from palestine, where i was an observer at the parliamentary elections, together with a number of other colleagues. we were all very happy and moved to see the exemplary conduct of the elections, the festive atmosphere in the streets despite the occupation and the welcome we were given as foreigners. this pride in being able to show the world the capacity of the palestinian people to build their democracy is a major asset for the future that the election result must not make us forget. the same is true of the desire for peace with israel's neighbour - two peoples, two states - which has been present in all the conversations we have had. the responsibility of those who, by suspending the vital aid, risk starving these women, men and children or radicalizing them would be heavy. let us, on the contrary, focus on the aspirations for democracy and a just peace, which are now very much in the majority in palestinian society and which any palestinian authority must take into account. the future of the partnership between the two regions is at stake. as for the outcome of the vote, let us not make a purely palestinian-palestinian analysis of it. of course, the popular disapproval of fatah is real. any hegemonic force tends to distance itself from society. however, it is clear that the palestinian authority has lost credibility with the people primarily because it has failed to improve its lot or to open up new prospects because of the blockade of the peace process. ten years after the hope, the exasperation is at its peak with the continuation of the occupation, the expansion of the settlements, the construction of the wall, the targeted killings, the arrests, the continued detention of prisoners, the daily violence, the deterioration of living conditions due to the closure of the territories. as for the palestinian state, as for jerusalem, the authority seems to have accepted much and gotten very little. what can be done? of course, mr high representative, as you said, putting pressure on hamas to end the violence and the bombings. but what do you say to the israeli authorities? i haven't heard anything about that. we must also make it clear that for us there is no international law on variable geometry. israel, like any other state, has a duty to respect the resolutions of the security council. it must also follow the recommendations of the international court of justice, it must implement its obligations under the road map. in this context, mr president, the attitude to be adopted towards the report of our diplomats on jerusalem is, more than ever, that it must be published without delay, its recommendations implemented and, more generally, finally a genuine alternative strategy chosen to that of president bush, who has failed in the middle east and, beyond, in the middle east. let us hear the alarm cries of societies on the brink of despair.
madam president, i would like to thank edward mcmillan-scott and veronique de keyser for the election, which was a success in every respect. beyond that, it is a historic election: the first democratic alternation in the arab world. the palestinian people did not vote for hamas, they voted against fatah. hamas won on the basis of a programme focused on fighting corruption and renewing the plo, the only one with the right to negotiate. and most importantly, he won on the basis of an internal social program in palestine. this is what i felt when, on the sidelines of our mission, i met the palestinian mayors and their association which is dominated by hamas. as regards aid, we must continue to help the palestinian people, prevent civil servants from not being paid and, above all, prevent the state from going bankrupt, otherwise the palestinian authority will fall into the hands of another country. we must wait, ladies and gentlemen, but let us not fall into the trap of angelicism. read the hamas charter: it is abject and unworthy. it must be declared null and void so that the new government can become a partner. we must set a date, a timetable, for hamas to take responsibility, because it has become a legitimate party in a democratic country.
the oral question which is the subject of this evening's debate and the proposals which will be put to the vote in parliament tomorrow are based on the fact that the only management measures applicable to fisheries in the mediterranean to date date date back to 1994. but these are no longer adapted to the resource situation or to the decisions taken on other european union shores to implement a common fisheries policy which allows for the sustainable development of this sector of our economy and the preservation of the resources which the union must be able to continue to draw from the exploitation of its seas in order to meet the need to ensure, in the long term, the food sufficiency of its citizens. the mediterranean is recognised as one of the most diverse and complex regions in the world, both biologically, ecologically, socially and economically. that is why our parliament was unable to reach an agreement in the previous parliamentary term and why our colleague lisi's report was a failure. that is also why this subject has been placed as a priority on the agenda of this new parliament and why it has led to the elaboration of a very delicate compromise at the end of the work of our rapporteur, mrs carmen fraga, whose personal commitment i must pay tribute to here. this report was adopted, first in committee and then in plenary, last june. the measures he advocates have not yet been the subject of any implementing decision by the council. we know some of the reasons for this wait, but i personally informed my colleagues of this when i tried to get a number of amendments through to avoid the ban on the use of certain types of nets traditionally used by fishermen in the region. the case concerned 75 boats which provide for 350 families and generate 80% of their turnover by the use of anchored nets, known as "sinailles". the disadvantage of this type of fishing was the accidental capture of dolphins until the profession developed a program to reduce these accidental catches by 80% through the implementation of hearing repellents and the systematic embarkation of observers. i am bringing this up again because the socioeconomic impact of the proposed measures certainly deserves more consideration. that is why i support, and my group will support, the motion for a resolution tabled by the green group, insisting in article 4 that fishermen affected by the new regulation and forced to change their fishing methods should receive appropriate compensation. the european commissioner responsible for fisheries, joe borg, was able to sense yesterday at the meeting of our committee the emotion of our spanish friends at the prospect of a ban on fishing nets in certain areas close to the spanish coast, which would jeopardise the future of a fleet of 80 boats that provide a livelihood for 1 500 people. this is a case quite comparable to that of small-scale artisanal fishing on the french mediterranean coast. however, mr president, while i can understand that some of the decisions proposed in the fraga report deserve further discussion and perhaps an impact assessment, that cannot justify an indefinite freeze on the application of the whole of a report which everyone agrees is a good compromise in itself.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i too, and you will see that there is a real consensus on this matter, would like to stress the urgency of unblocking this situation because the state of the resources in the mediterranean is totally alarming. this is particularly true of bluefin tuna, but also of other species as my colleague has pointed out. the delay, the blockades, the false evasions are therefore really disastrous for the future of the mediterranean. we also want to preserve the small-scale fisheries which are so important in the regions concerned and which, as has been said, provide a livelihood for thousands of people. however, this will not be achieved by exempting it from a number of common sense measures, but rather by giving it priority to help it adapt and support it so that it can continue to operate in accordance with the regulations which must be those mentioned in the report. i therefore believe that the mediterranean must be preserved: it is a vital issue for the future of fisheries and it is also a major cultural issue. the council must be fully aware of this and must be anxious to resolve this situation as quickly as possible.
we shall now resume the sitting with the one-minute requests for important political questions.
the one-minute speeches on important political issues are over.
the agenda calls for the report by maria carlshamre, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the current state of play in the fight against violence against women and any future action (2004/2220(ini) (a6-0404/2005).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report by edite estrela, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on equality between women and men in the european union (2004/2159 (ini)) (a6-0401/2005).
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this interesting discussion, which was attended by quite a number of men, and i think that is also a sign that we have made progress in the area of equal opportunities. gender equality is not just a social issue, it is an economic issue, and our policies are more effective when they take gender into account. equality needs to be promoted within a global approach that combines specific actions and takes gender equality into account in all our policies. gender equality policy needs to be promoted through political commitment at the highest level, through compliance with the law and good governance at all levels of government. this is what we are working towards, and i am convinced that our roadmap for equality, which we will present in march, will make a significant contribution. let me also respond to one of the questions that has been raised. directive 73/2002 entered into force on 5 october 2005. most countries have transposed the directive. the commission is currently analysing the situation and will initiate the appropriate procedures where necessary.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the report by mr markus ferber, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the application of the postal directive (directive 97/67/ec), as amended by directive 2002/39/ec (2005/2086 (ini)) (a6-0390/2005).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join in the thanks to be given to our colleague mr markus ferber for his own-initiative report. let me put my point of view in two ways. first of all, i am pleased that this report gives us, together with my group in the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, the opportunity today to discuss the legal framework that our union should put in place by 2009 to organise the liberalisation of postal services. secondly, i support the proposed method which allows us to take a balanced and controlled approach to the process of modernising this sector. however, ladies and gentlemen, if this liberalisation is intended, as has just been explained, to continue the modernisation of the sector concerned and to improve services to customers, no one is unaware of the stakes of the reform and the legitimate fears of our citizens regarding the maintenance of a quality service and coverage of all territories, including the most remote ones. i therefore look forward with great interest to the economic impact study which the european commission is due to present later this year. it should be based on reliable economic data and the results of consultations with all interested parties, from trade unions to chambers of commerce and industry, and all the social partners concerned. i would also draw the attention of the commission, and also of the council, to the need to combat distortions of competition of all kinds. i am thinking in particular of vat and the harmonization of rates. in conclusion, i am counting on the commission to propose relevant and fair mechanisms for financing universal service, without prejudging the choices that parliament will have to make, because in the end, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to parliament, our democratic body, to explain to the 450 million europeans that the strong europe we want to build together is theirs.
mr nattrass, for your information, your group has five minutes today, divided as follows: one minute for mrs krupa, one minute for mr bloom, another thirty minutes for mrs krupa and one thirty minute for you, not two thirty minutes. if mr. farage sold you five minutes, he sold you something that didn't belong to him.
mr president, i will be very brief in saying that the postal services are not like other services. they have a human dimension, as has been mentioned, but also a social and territorial dimension, which means that their benefits vary greatly from one country to another. there is a big difference between serving a very dense population, like that of the netherlands, concentrated in a very flat area, and serving, under the same conditions, the same population, spread over thousands of islands, as in greece, or in a very diverse area, as in france. i therefore hope that the commission's assessment will be objective and not based on the assumption, shared by some in this house, that we do not need a framework because the market, the whole market, the market alone is sufficient for postal regulation. i also hope that this evaluation will help to ensure that the opening up of the postal market, which is necessary for europe, is carried out in accordance with the principle of what the post office is: a universal service with an irreplaceable territorial and social dimension.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the report by jacques toubon, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive laying down the rules on nominal quantities for prepackaged products, repealing council directives 75/106/eec and 80/232/eec, and amending council directive 76/211/eec (com (2004) 0708 c6 0160/2004 2004/0248 (cod)) (a6-0412/2005).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the proposed directive on pre-packaging seems to be a very technical dossier. however, in reality, it is part of the major policy initiative strongly supported by our institutions on better regulation and simplification. there is community legislation on pre-packaging, but the current legal situation is neither satisfactory nor clear. in the european union, we have a stable legal framework for wine and spirits, where, throughout the community, products are sold in agreed quantities. for around 70 other products, current legislation has introduced voluntary harmonisation to which member states have adopted different approaches. member states such as belgium or the netherlands have deregulated package sizes altogether. in other countries, for instance sweden, community legislation on package sizes has been made optional for manufacturers. other member states have made regulation mandatory but only for home producers. some national rules are entirely based on the existing optional community directives, but in other countries, such as germany, national rules are different from community provisions. from a legal point of view, the situation is therefore quite confusing, to put it mildly. at the same time, products freely move from one country to another and consumers find a wealth of products on the market. until now, no consumer has ever complained that there was an excess of choice. the proposal of the commission intends to simplify the legal situation whilst leaving the benefit of free choice to consumers. the commission is proposing a single legal framework to be implemented throughout the union by all member states. in substance, the commission proposes to leave the free choice that consumers currently enjoy and to regulate package sizes only for a very limited number of sectors, in particular wines and spirits. the commission notes that the committee on the internal market and consumer protection endorses this approach in principle. however, we have different views on the number of sectors that should become subject to the community regulation fixing nominal quantities. as far as the commission is concerned, and based on a wide consultation of consumers in all member states and european trade federations, only the wine and spirits sectors should be regulated. however, on the basis of a prior commitment to parliament, the commission has also included in its proposal the regulation for soluble coffee and white sugar. whilst supporting the overall approach, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection suggests that additional sectors should become subject to regulation, including drinking milk, butter, roasted coffee, dried pasta, rice and brown sugar. the commission questions the justification for regulation in these sectors. european industry, with the exception of the coffee sector, is not in favour and consumers have not requested regulation that limits their choice. the proposed amendment would imply that a number of products that are placed on the market today would disappear. furthermore, it would also mean that member states that never had regulation or had abolished it would have to re-introduce regulation on package sizes. this is contrary to the political aims of better regulation and simplification and does not protect consumers. the commission appreciates that the parliament has carried out an impact assessment of these amendments. this initiative reflects the commission’s common concern for better regulation and simplification. to conclude, in the commission’s opinion, consumer protection today should not be based on limiting consumer choice, but should concentrate on providing correct information to consumers and on the prohibition of misleading practices, allowing consumers to make a well-informed and deliberate choice. it is fair to say that the commission, as well as the european court of justice, takes as the benchmark the average consumer, reasonably well-informed and reasonably observant and circumspect. vulnerable consumers do not become less vulnerable with rules on nominal quantities, but by better implemented existing community law on consumer protection, such as labelling and the prohibition of deceptive packaging. the commission is working with national authorities towards the better implementation of these community rules in order to effectively improve the protection of vulnerable consumers.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report i am presenting on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has made a major change to the commission's proposal. it was adopted by 28 votes to none. i propose to accept the liberalization of formats, which is the solution chosen by the commission to take account of the case law in the ruwet cider case. the commission also proposes to maintain mandatory ranges in certain specific sectors: wines, spirits, soluble coffee and white sugar. the commission is asking for this derogation to be limited to 20 years. the members of the committee on the internal market immediately questioned the relevance of the proposal and the quality of the impact study on which it is based. i have therefore proposed that other commodities should be subject to mandatory ranges. these are coffee, butter, rice, pasta and milk. the ranges i propose have quite wide ranges, not to mention that below the smallest size and above the largest, there is total freedom. i also propose that the system be reviewed in eight years, not in 20 years as the commission proposes. why this proposal from the committee on the internal market? firstly, to protect consumers who are far from having fully understood the unit price established in 1998, especially the most vulnerable among them, such as the elderly and the visually impaired. secondly, to take account of the independent impact study commissioned by our committee which confirmed that liberalization entailed risks for the consumer and would not lead to more competition between producers and distributors. finally, because better regulation does not mean no regulation at all. lacordaire said in the 1830s: between the weak and the strong, it is freedom that oppresses and it is the law that protects. you can see that this text, in its seemingly insignificant and technical aspect, allows us to ask important questions. in conclusion, i would like to emphasize three elements: an impact study commissioned by parliament itself and independent of the commission and lobby groups, a first; a concept of 'better lawmaking' inspired by the sole interest of our fellow citizens and not by an ideological attitude; the concern to stick to national cultures because our people are very attached to their food traditions and their consumption habits.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
for the greens/efa group your communication on the white paper started very well, madam vice-president, because on the first page i read that the communication is inseparable from its content. i therefore expected to find a political analysis of the lack of love that we all see, you, us, everyone, between european citizens and european institutions. and i must admit that i am very disappointed because self-criticism does not go beyond the sentence i just quoted. you believe that if we talk more about europe, citizens will naturally regain their lost confidence in their institutions and the community project. but can it be seriously claimed that the liberal objectives fully embraced by mr barroso's team are not to blame for all the worries, rightly, of the people of the union? it is true that in your document you indicate some of the possibilities. it contains attractive formulae: decentralization, participation, culture. but beyond these words, what is there to be concrete about? i think you're confusing communication with consultation. democracy is not just about communication, it is about the concrete involvement of the people through their institutions. when mr barroso, at the end of the summer, tells us: 'i have heard the message, i am withdrawing the texts that are not consensual', and he withdraws several dozen but maintains the services directive, i have the impression that i have not been campaigning in the same way as he did at the referendum level, it is not possible! i thought that the directive on the protection of workers posed no problem, unlike the directive on services, which does pose some problems on the ground. it's not enough to just shade policies, maybe we need to change them. i get the impression that your approach is rather technocratic and elitist. erasmus is a great programme, but as the previous speaker said, it does not reach the masses, we cannot afford it. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. problems that we all know about. is it really necessary to launch a whole series of eurobarometer surveys to find out that the anxieties of our citizens are relocations, social insecurity, insecurity, the health crisis, environmental upheavals? i am quite sure that the eurobarometer will tell you what i have just said in one sentence. what are you doing to deal with these anxieties? when i was rapporteur for the prince programme in the 2005 budget, i remember that the commission proposed that the budget for this programme be split in half, and this after the shock of the double 'no' vote on the draft constitution. it was parliament in this house that then multiplied it by six. commissioner, your intentions are laudable, but once again, unless you define what you want to sell at political level, it will be useless to work on the packaging, on the little knot you are going to put around it: to revise its communication is good, to revise its policy is better.
mr president, the procedure is much faster for texts on competition than for those on social standards, as we are used to. the text before us today has been in force since 2001. it is therefore the culmination of a long legislative procedure which ended in a difficult and unlikely conciliation, given the resistance at member state level. i shall vote in favour of this text which sets minimum standards, which it should be noted are a considerable step forward since in some member states road transport workers used to drive up to 70 hours, 74 hours and will now be limited to 56 hours. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the member states. i hope that this text will be improved. nevertheless, i very much regret what mr jarzembowski said about mr piecyk. he wanted to deal with it in a very unpleasant ideological way. i regret that because mr piecyk has pointed to a problem: the lack of control of driving time and working time at the same time. this means that a heavy goods vehicle can be driven continuously by three underpaid drivers: one conducts, the second takes his break time in the seat next to him in the cab, and the third takes his weekly rest time in the back bunk behind the driver. that is the reality of things and i think we have missed a great social text. i regret it a little, but i shall vote in favour anyway.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join in the thanks to mr markov for having completed this long and difficult legislative saga. like most of my colleagues, i am glad that the european union has taken up the question of harmonizing social legislation in the field of road transport, even though much remains to be done. as you know, although the european union has timidly, too timidly, embarked on policies to promote the transfer of road freight to other modes of transport, something which our citizens are calling for, it is clear that the transport of goods by road is continuing to increase, and this throughout the community. in this context, contrary to what mr mote said, all european transit countries, particularly france, are particularly sensitive to improving the working conditions of road hauliers and road safety, but also to eliminating distortions of competition and combating social dumping. i want to see the serious difficulties facing alsace in reducing the catastrophic effects of transit road traffic. to return to the subject at hand today, it is urgent, and i agree with mr savary, to harmonize the working conditions of road drivers, the rules on rest periods and driving times, with the aim of reducing road accidents caused by driver fatigue, although much remains to be done, and to improve safety for all in europe. even if the agreement reached on this point is still in doubt, which is probably due to the fact that it is a compromise, the markov reports resulting from the readings in parliament and the conciliations are a significant step forward in the fight against social dumping and in simplifying and clarifying the road transport sector. that is why we shall finally adopt this text. in conclusion, i would like the european commission to conduct regular impact studies to ensure that the measures we are taking today are not only sufficient, but also and above all applied and monitored, in particular through the effective use of digital tachographs.
mr president, we are moving at last, at the speed of a fully-fledged turtle, but we are moving. if there is one area where social and fiscal dumping is wreaking havoc and where it is imperative that the legislator intervenes, it is road transport. with the infernal pace imposed by the tense flows, one can rightly speak of the wage of fear. the wage of fear is all too often an hourly wage of misery, which leads to a chain of driving hours and journeys, with disregard for safety, disregard for one's own health and that of others. i am thinking also of the small entrepreneurs in this sector who live in the daily fear of bankruptcy, victims of the criminal dogma of free and undistorted competition, far removed today from the ideals which led them to become independent entrepreneurs. there is only one law, that of transporting a commodity from one point to another, as quickly and cheaply as possible. no matter what the risks, after all, insurance exists. there's a name for that law. it's the law of the jungle. it's time to do something so our roads don't look like the wild west. i regret that, despite the courageous and tenacious efforts of mr markov, the final texts are timid, but they are a first step in the right direction. some of our colleagues are shouting at the big brothers when it comes to using electronic techniques to monitor compliance with regulations. they are crying out for the infringement of individual freedoms. yet, this is about protecting lives. would it not be possible to believe that the big bosses of european companies are the main terrorists, the ones who violate social laws and encourage fiscal and social dumping between our nations, the employers who are directly responsible, every day, for dozens of fatal accidents on our roads? so yes, let us use all the means at our disposal to ensure security and allow the european union to live in peace.
the commission's vice-president mr president, first of all i would like to thank parliament for the excellent work it has done and i would like to thank mr markov again. i would like to remind some members that our aim is to adopt social standards in the interests of drivers and industry which will bring us greater road safety. heavy goods vehicles are involved in only 6% of accidents, but 16% of these accidents are fatal. finally, we will allow the conditions of competition to be harmonized. so there is real progress here. i have heard some speakers, including mr piecyk, who have expressed regret that there is no direct link with the working time directive. that is what the commission had proposed. the council unanimously did not accept it, and i regret that, but we are reacting. i have therefore sent 10 reasoned opinions for non-transposition. and we shall indeed, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, monitor very carefully the application of these texts; we shall ensure maximum coordination between the various instruments. i would point out that, among the member states which have received a reasoned opinion, ireland has already settled its situation. if the other member states do not do so, the commission will still have the possibility of bringing them before the court. i shall now give some more specific answers, mr president. i would say to mr markov and mrs ayala that the study on the use of small trucks is under way, that we are planning a meeting with all those concerned this year and, once again, that we will strengthen the synergy between these texts and the directive on drivers' working time. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. we have committed ourselves to negotiating the alignment of the aetr with our legislation. we also intend to defend the union against social dumping and we intend to apply the digital tachograph also to aetr drivers, drivers from russia, turkey and the balkans. mrs griesbeck referred to the diversion of traffic through alsace. the new eurovignette directive, adopted by parliament and the council, will allow member states to charge tolls on these alternative routes.
vice-president of the commission. - mrs jensen and mrs wortmann-kool have mentioned the problems with the buses. parliament was more open to the requirements of industry, the council was of a different opinion, the commission was open to both solutions, but the conciliation was in line with the council's position. we can still accept that safety will win out. i'm going to use the tachograph. ladies and gentlemen, you will hear about the digital tachograph at some point. the commission is working with member states' officials to ensure a coherent and harmonised deployment of the digital tachograph, both on the road and in businesses. mr romagnoli, i know that the italian workshops have been delayed, as have those in a few other member states. it is a regrettable situation and we have been understanding. but the tachograph is an essential element for compliance with the law and for road safety, and if a member state is not ready by the date that parliament, in agreement with the council, has set, well, i tell you right now, there will be no further postponement. it is a matter of consistency and we will simply initiate infringement proceedings. ladies and gentlemen, i apologize for not answering all the questions, but i would like to point out the many advantages of the legislative package. (the president declared the common position adopted as amended) a clear weekly driving time limit, the impossibility of avoiding breaks, simplified daily rest, regular weekly rest periods, a policy of uniform interpretation and application of the regulation, extraterritoriality of penalties and greater responsibility for the whole transport chain: these are the main advances of the regulation. the directive allows for increased checks, on-the-spot checks, in this case at the roadside, and also at the premises of companies where the checks will be mainly concentrated. all this should improve controls, make them more efficient and ensure better cooperation. i hope that the noise which has accompanied my speech is only an expression of general approval, although parliament may have some regret that it has not been fully followed by the council. i would like to thank parliament for the excellent work it has done on these two texts. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, commissioner, for your courage. you have been warmly applauded by all the speakers.
i agree with you completely. i think it is a matter of self-discipline for members of parliament who should have the courtesy, and i would add the intelligence, to listen to the debate to the end, especially when the commission is careful to reply in detail, as mr barrot has just done. so i share your regret. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m.
i would like to welcome the presence in the official gallery of mr norbert lammert, president of the bundestag. mr lammert made his first visit to the european parliament since the last bundestag elections this morning. i would like to extend a very warm welcome to him on behalf of all of you. (applause) i would like to thank
the agenda now calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details, see minutes)
the rapporteur. mr president, i would simply point out that the commission's proposal to maintain mandatory packaging ranges for a number of consumer products, in the interests of consumers, is a coherent proposal. on the other hand, the position of accepting that the commission should maintain certain mandatory sectors, while rejecting the commission's proposal, is not consistent. i therefore recommend, in the interests of consumers and in accordance with the independent study which has been commissioned by the european parliament for the first time in its history, to vote in favour of all the amendments proposed by the committee on the internal market, which adopted them by 28 votes to one.
the english version is authentic. we'll check all other versions and correct any errors. - before the vote on amendment 1:
we had voted for the oral amendment in the previous vote, but it was rejected.
these are technical corrections that will be made.
that goes without saying, mr wynn. the role of the presidency is to ensure, as far as possible, that parliament's decisions are implemented and respected by the council. the request will therefore be forwarded to the council.
we have now finished with the votes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, mrs edite estrela, on equality between women and men in the european union and i am pleased that it was adopted by the european parliament almost unanimously. equal opportunities are one of the main principles of the french republic and i am campaigning for their respect at european level, in particular in accordance with the treaty of rome establishing the european community and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. every inequality based on the sex of people is a source of injustice, social violence and incomprehension among our fellow citizens. the european union has a duty to ensure that people are treated equally, which is the source of harmony, peace and progress. it will be an example to the whole world of the lucidity of the human values we defend, which are one of the pillars of the european construction.
we are finished with the explanations of vote.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 11.45 a.m.)
we can only express ourselves on the three requests at once if we want to be logical. it would be illogical to accept one request and refuse the others. i therefore ask you to open the debate on the three requests at the same time because they are linked. i personally will speak against all three requests because there is a logic to be respected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. now that the two major groups have established that everything is connected, we can also represent everything in a connected way: firstly, mr pöttering is right, the liberals opposed both a wider debate and a resolution at the conference of presidents. we have put forward the wish for a resolution in the conference of presidents. we do not care about the number of speakers, but we are right in all cases that if the groups need more speakers to speak, this will of course be handled in this way. we are always in favour of resolutions. we think it is important that parliament should adopt a resolution. however, we are absolutely against excluding the issue of bosnia-herzegovina, because the question of the constitution is now being discussed in bosnia, and the opinion of parliament is of the utmost importance, after several initiatives by the americans. that is why it would be absurd to postpone this subject. so we are against it! if we cannot get a resolution passed now, there is an intermediate option: we will hold a debate now and then take up the resolution at the next partsession.
i am not going to go into that. i am against it, and i want to explain why. this week the whole of parliament is dealing with this service directive. i do not see any sensible resolution with a compromise in these three days. that is why we proposed it last week! i therefore consider mr swoboda's proposal to be reasonable. yes, it is true, this parliament needs a resolution on this issue! but this parliament also needs the opportunity to produce a sensible resolution. that is why we should start the debate here and then vote on this resolution at the next plenary session on the basis of the debate. that's a sensible thing to do. in these three days you will only be passing general positions, and i think this matter deserves more than general positions. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would simply like to draw the attention of our colleagues to the dramatic and tragic situation of the winegrowers of southern europe and, more specifically, of languedoc-roussillon, who on wednesday will be in the streets of the major cities of southern france by the thousands, by the tens of thousands, to express their distress. the average turnover of a winegrower is 20,000 euros a year. the fixed costs are 15,000 euros, and he has 5,000 euros left to live on for the whole year. we know who is responsible for this tragic situation: unreasonable free trade agreements, as was the case in november 2005 with the united states, south africa, etc., that is to say with countries in which the climatic, environmental, social and fiscal conditions are different. so it's unfair competition. i thank you, mr president, for your awareness of the tragic situation of wine growers, including those in spain, italy, greece and france.
mr president, mittal steel has launched a hostile takeover bid for arcelor, threatening almost 50,000 jobs in europe. arcelor, which emerged from the ecsc, has made it possible to adapt the steel industry to the new world situation at the cost of unprecedented financial and human efforts, which may involve losses and profits. i am concerned about the social consequences for the protection of workers and the preservation of jobs, but i am also concerned about the ability of european industry to cope with the concentrations and changes brought about by globalisation. however, beyond national positions, it is europe's steel workers who are waiting for a response. the commission will continue to support the development of the european research area, with a view to promoting the development of new technologies and the creation of a european research area. this case shows that in the key economic areas of the union we must provide long-term responses and in particular be the driving force behind international regulation. the european construction began with steel, and this is quite a symbol, it must be able to continue without abandoning arcelor and its employees.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many employees and citizens of the european union do not understand the european commission's passivity in the face of the hostile takeover bid affecting the arcelor group, and they were deeply shocked by the remarks of commissioner nelly kroes, who believes that there should be no strategy to defend european groups. it is satisfied with the presence of international groups in europe. it is to forget our past, namely that europe was founded on the economic community of coal and steel, it is to neglect any idea of industrial policy, it is to believe the words and commitments of the mittal steel boss, which we know well will not be respected in the long run. i want to see proof of this in the closure of one of the group's factories in ireland, despite the commitments made to the local authorities. finally, i would like to say that in this industrial policy story it is clear that the mittal steel group is essentially aiming to take the equity capital of the arcelor group, which is largely the result of the work of the employees; he also wants to encourage relocations in the future and threatens to do so...
mr president, on 20 october 2005, the general conference of unesco adopted the convention on cultural diversity by 148 votes to 2, with 4 abstentions. this convention recognises the specific nature of cultural activities, goods and services which can under no circumstances be regarded as mere commodities. article 20 of the convention stresses that states take the convention into account when they enter into other international obligations, for example agreements concluded within the framework of the world trade organisation. the convention must be ratified by 30 states before it can enter into force. to date, canada is the only country to have done so. the european union, represented by its commission, played a major role in the adoption of the convention. should not our president and the president of our committee on culture and education send a letter to the council and to all the heads of state and government to ratify this agreement?
mr president, last year the region of alsace was rightly outraged by the desecration of a jewish cemetery in herrlisheim. this desecration was, without a shadow of evidence, blamed on a national front activist, an honest young employee of the forestry office, his mother's only support. based on a simple graphological analysis that revealed that his zeros were a little smaller than the other digits, he was immediately taken into custody. today, it seems, we arrested the two perpetrators of this crime. they have nothing to do with mr lezeau, the innocent victim, but neither he nor the national front received an apology. the national front was of course completely unaware of this action which repulsed it as much as the rest of the population. this is a real judicial scandal that d.a. schultz is responsible for in colmar.
madam president, we are all in favour of protecting farm chickens from the barbarism of factory farming. here i have repeatedly denounced the shame of factory farms, where up to 80 million male chicks have been burned alive to heat the farm. i denounced the electric stunning of the chicken, which is not actually stunned so much that it is immersed alive in hot water: it is boiled to plume it! so we need rules, we all agree. but when european farmers read the directive, what do they see? the farmed chicken shall be subject to two medical examinations per day by a veterinarian who shall be within 3 metres of the chicken; the chickens shall be illuminated by a non-flashing light of 50 lux, 20 lux, 100 lux, not known, measured at eye level; the indoor temperature of the farm shall not exceed the outdoor temperature measured in the shade by 3 degrees; the litter of the chicken shall be 5 centimetres; a certificate as a chicken farmer, a certificate as a caster of chicks less than 10 days old is required; the footpads must be examined and the concentration of chickens limited to a density of 28, 30, 35 or 42 kilograms per square metre, without specifying whether this is a kilogram of live weight or metabolic weight. meanwhile, thousands of chickens are being slaughtered in nigeria, and avian influenza is going to wipe out 1.1 billion african chickens. all this because the 800 million euros that would have enabled each african chicken to be given the two necessary vaccines at a cost of 40 cents a dose have not been found. i could also do dark humor. in the face of this extravagance of precautions for the white chicken while black children die of leprosy, aids and tuberculosis, the little african will finally say: i, when i grow up, will not be a fireman, i will be a farm chicken in europe! in the meantime, our breton farms, for example, are being moved to brazil, the world's leading poultry producer, where not only the chicken is not protected, but the children are not protected either. these are treated like slaves to keep brazilian farms running, not to mention banana plantations, where eight-year-olds sleep exhausted on cardboard boxes and are exposed to pesticides that give them balance disorders, all for two dollars a day! so, each one has his own hierarchy. some people choose white chickens, i choose african children, asian children. this is what the unreasonable leads to when we try to make an angel, and with this directive we are making the beast!
mr president, animal welfare is certainly a noble cause, and we support it and we also welcome the work of the rapporteur, mr berman. i would simply add that the welfare of farmers is also a noble cause and, for us, a priority cause. the sector is already seriously threatened by competition from outside europe. i was hearing a colleague say earlier that there was no closure of farms. but yes, this phenomenon is already very widely engaged in the european territory. i shall simply mention my region, brittany, which accounts for 35% of french broiler production and above all 18 000 jobs, 11 000 of which are in the agricultural and food industries. this is a region where there are currently closures. it is clear that if the current distortions of competition, which are already very serious, are reinforced, we will see a massive influx of products from third countries and a fall in our exports. we are told that 'quality production' is a good thing, but we know that adaptation or conversion is very random and in any case takes a lot of time. a great deal of work has been done on this subject, but there are still real gaps in the justification of the text under discussion. i shall mention the thresholds which seem to give rise to a virtuous competition with the fixing of the lowest possible levels; the indicators for evaluating livestock competition; and above all, the impact study on the repercussions in terms of the disappearance of livestock and jobs in the sector. i would like to end by asking commissioner kiprianou a question. commissioner, in the present context of the threat of avian influenza which is on the doorstep of europe, or even already in europe, how can we deal with the paradox between, on the one hand, high european standards of animal welfare and, on the other hand, the necessary national measures for the containment of poultry? your answer would oblige us.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr gunnar hökmark, and all our colleagues. it is a non-legislative report and i think the committee on economic and monetary affairs has done a good job of making a strong position of the european parliament known. we have come to a fairly clear view of things on the whole. i am one of those who think, with the pse group, that it is indeed necessary to review the state aid system. it is more than ever at the heart of the commission's powers, since europe remains essentially a europe of the internal market and competition until further notice. i am not sure that the 'no' vote in the french referendum will give us any other prospects for a long time to come. we are therefore truly at the heart of community competence and it is true that with the enlargement of europe, the european union and the commission are threatened with thrombosis if the system and the system of state aid are left in their present configuration. parliament first insisted that the internal market and competition should not be seen as representing the whole of european society. we are not just a market company; there must also be room for public action, whenever the market is failing, as the texts say, but also whenever we need to reduce social or territorial inequalities, manage externalities, promote innovation and possibly provide industrial impetus. we sometimes find ourselves in certain liberal slides asking ourselves: would we be able to make an airbus today or would we be able to make an ariane, given the prevailing ideology? i think we must keep this possibility of intervening very strongly in the industrial landscape and public research. i would like to draw the commissioner's attention to the fact that parliament's main contribution is, on the one hand, that the evaluation of state aid should not be carried out solely on the basis of cost, but should be balanced, that is to say, that the negative aspects - distortions of competition - should be considered, as well as the positive effects. we have asked the european parliament to ensure that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are clearly applied and in particular that state aid which has no obvious impact on the internal market is regarded as compensation. we also wanted to have a better understanding of market failures. finally, i would like to mention the remaining debates, which are contained in the 21 amendments tabled. as regards public services, we need clarification on the aspect of compensation, the aspect of the legitimate financing of public services, the aspect of subsidiary financing and, above all, the fourth criterion set out in the altmark judgment, which is indeed extremely vague and very difficult to handle, as the commission itself admits. as regards innovation, mrs in 't veld will be presenting her report shortly. we think it is a very good text and we hope to enrich it. the question is whether we should stick strictly to innovation or go a little further in the field of research and development. as far as the regions are concerned, some excellent amendments concern the avoidance of financing relocations through state aid. this is a very serious problem because it gives europeans the impression that they are being put in competition with each other, and with public subsidies. finally, i would like to say that we are naturally in favour of state aid being considered in the context of the lisbon and gothenburg processes: the knowledge economy, but also aid for the environment.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mrs edit herczog, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the effects of globalisation on the internal market (2004/2225 (ini)) (a6-0021/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for the oral question to the commission, solvit, by arlene mccarthy, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (0-0087/2005/rev. - b6-0001/2006).
for the greens/efa group mr president, the clause we are discussing today is the basis and the legitimacy of the european union's action with third countries in respect of human rights. the agnoletto report makes important proposals which, as you can see, have a very high degree of consensus in this parliament. this clause is flawed. first, there is a lack of uniformity. the wording of this clause may vary from one type of agreement to another. i would like to join the rapporteur in calling for an improved clause to strengthen its political and legal significance. for example, it must be clearly established that the parties to such agreements are obliged to comply with international standards and the obligations arising therefrom. secondly, in the majority of cases, as has already been pointed out, this clause suffers from a lack of specific terms and practical applications. the european union, in order to be coherent, must establish such arrangements. we cannot hope to remain credible to our partners if, on the one hand, we claim to want to make respect for human rights an essential element of our policy, but on the other hand we fail to take the necessary measures when these countries systematically violate these same rights. at present, the acp agreements are probably the most advanced model of this, so we must draw inspiration from them. the mechanisms for implementing the clause must also be graduated. we cannot only regard them as instruments for reprimanding human rights violations, but also as means of contributing to the strengthening of human rights in third countries. this is the importance of the positive approach to the human rights clause. as regards the role of parliament, in order to ensure the coherence, credibility and transparency of our policy, it is essential that parliament is involved in the various stages of implementation of the clause. when parliament in its resolutions refers to the clause, calls for appropriate measures to be taken, the council should act on this request and consider whether it is appropriate to do so. the second essential point is the link between the clause and the structures of political dialogue. the link between this clause and the creation of subcommittees on human rights must be made clear, and these subcommittees should also be strengthened. i regret the downward revision of the european union's requirements in this respect, particularly with regard to certain neighbouring countries. if we hope to implement this clause effectively, we must create the necessary spaces for a frank and constructive exchange on human rights. as regards the principle of reciprocity, this dialogue must also be reciprocal at the very moment when a number of member states are being accused of their policies in the fight against terrorism, for example, or of the inhumane conditions in prisons. we must be able to listen to the criticisms that our partners might make. finally, it is important that human rights should not be a concern of our foreign ministers alone but of all government bodies. for this reason, i support the rapporteur's call for a 'essential element' clause in all agreements and, in conclusion, for parliament to no longer give its assent to new agreements which do not contain a clause on human rights and democracy.
mr president, we are talking about the human rights clauses that the union imposes on the countries with which it deals. but before we look for the speck in our neighbor's eye, should we not remove the log in our own? so in my country, in france, as elsewhere in the union, the dictatorship of political correctness is becoming absolutely unbearable. you can theoretically say anything about mass immigration, but if you're against it, you're guilty of inciting racial hatred. if we talk about the islamization of alsace, as we did recently, even as elected representatives, we are subject to indignity condemnations which only dishonor those who pronounced them. in theory, one can say anything about contemporary history, but in practice one can only do so if one adheres to the provisions of a communist-inspired law, or else one risks prison. for challenging this law at a political press conference, i myself lost, at least temporarily, my chair at the university of lyon. if one says that he prefers the natural family to homosexual unions, he still risks being condemned, as was recently the case with a french parliamentarian who belongs to the government majority. a mayor has no right to prefer one of his fellow citizens to a foreigner in the allocation of social housing and an individual cannot exercise this kind of preference in any field. i could give you many more examples. every group, every lobby, every minority, every deviation has developed its means of pressure, intimidation, persecution of the majority of the people, with the active or passive complicity of the authorities. in these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, before you impose on our partners a clause which you interpret in a perfectly unilateral way, you should first sweep outside our door, you will be doing useful work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate mr rothe on his excellent own-initiative report, which clearly calls on the european commission to draw up a legislative proposal before july 2006 on increasing the share of renewable energy in heating and cooling. heat and cold networks and biomass, especially wood, are important outlets for the wood sector, are fully integrated into a sustainable european forestry strategy and can support european efforts for sustainable development, in particular the target of 12% renewable energy in 2010 on total energy consumed. however, there is currently no legislation governing the production of heat and cold from renewable sources and this gap needs to be filled after the publication of the european commission's biomass action plan on 7 december. i would like to emphasize three points which are important to me. firstly, the ecofin council reached a political agreement on 28 january to extend the experiment of reduced vat rates on labour-intensive services until 2010. the important innovation in this case is the inclusion of district heating in the option provided for in article 12 (3) (b) of the sixth vat directive, along with the supply of natural gas and electricity. member states can therefore now put an end to this unequal tax treatment between heating energy sales and renewable energy heating and cooling network subscriptions and the supply of natural gas and electricity. i fully agree with the rapporteur's recommendation on the use of the structural funds, the cohesion fund and the eafrd.
mr president, on the report by my colleague, mr őry, i am divided between three sentiments: satisfaction, regret and a wish. the satisfaction lies in the completion of the work begun in 1994 to carry out a concerted approach to the risks faced by workers. the attitude of our societies towards the risks of life is the key element of the european social model, which differentiates it from many others. the regret is that the european commission, under pressure from the council, did not wish to negotiate with parliament the most reasonable solution, which was to refer to subsidiarity. this would have saved us from the fear that the states might still be obliged to transpose the rules on solar radiation because they are mentioned in the framework directive. the council's disregard for the principle of subsidiarity with the complicity of the commission is a paradox! one wish is that the solar issue can be tackled in the future but in a flexible way, without unnecessary regulation or bureaucracy. the european agency for safety at work, based in bilbao, could thus launch a major information campaign for european workers on the risks of solar radiation.
in writing. for decades, state aid has been authorised or prohibited by the commission solely on the basis of the principle of fair competition. and while it is regrettable that it took until 2006 for people to think about taking into account common sense criteria such as employment, innovation, growth, economic and social cohesion, we must not reject such a policy shift, since we cannot avoid it. i am concerned, however, about the fate of services of general interest, and particularly about the fact that they are not really immune to the nuisance of brussels. the consequences of the liberalization of network activities (post, rail, electricity, etc.), which privatizes profits and socializes losses, should serve as a lesson to all those who ask the commission to legislate in this field. i am also concerned about the primacy of respect for competition over all other criteria, which is characteristic of a policy which continues to give priority to its dogmas over the interests of europeans. finally, i would like to emphasize that many activities, even emerging ones, would not need subsidies or aid if they were to benefit from a favourable fiscal, regulatory and international environment, an environment which brussels' policies are largely contributing to the deterioration of.
in writing. errare humanum is, perseverare diabolicum is. this is the way to go. this applies to each of the many reports this parliament has devoted to globalisation and its effects, deplores its negative impacts but ultimately proposes as a solution only to give more powers to the europe of brussels. none of them has ever questioned globalisation and the way it is imposed on us by brussels. that is the real problem. the european union is sacrificing our jobs, our industries, our agriculture and our social protection systems to global free trade and the dogma of international competition; it does not protect our economies against unfair competition, social or monetary dumping, piracy or counterfeiting. it does not support our companies which face, in competing countries where they want to trade, multiple tariff and non-tariff barriers, whereas they face increased competition in our country, with one of the most open economies in the world; it multiplies the standards and regulations that are handicaps. the inevitable consequence is that europe is the turkey in the globalist farce and the european citizens its main victims. it is time that their interests finally took precedence over the utopian pursuit of ultra-liberal dogmas.
mr president, i said this morning how extremely shocking it is that we are lecturing the world on human rights when the european union is blatantly violating them, particularly freedom of expression, on its own territory. but there are other reasons for the reluctance to accept mr agnoletto's report. the reason for this is that article 60 of the vienna convention is invoked, and in particular the non-adimpleti contractus exception which allows us to derogate from the observance of a treaty on the ground that the other party is not fulfilling its obligations. there is only one problem: the european union is the sole judge of this fact and this seems to me to be a completely abusive conception. we should at least have recourse to an arbitration system, otherwise this reservation is really a power of attorney clause which allows us to discharge our obligations at will or, on the contrary, to maintain them when it comes to states which are powerful and whose retaliation we fear. this is not acceptable.
in writing. it is a good feeling to demand respect for human rights from our economic and political partners. but the european institutions should first sweep their own front door. especially since turkey is at that door. the discrimination suffered by christian minorities, the censored information on the armenian genocide, the occupation by the turkish army of a third of the cypriot territory - all these flagrant violations of the law did not prevent european leaders, especially chirac and villepin in france, from opening the doors of europe to this asian country. does the prospect of accession encourage the turkish authorities to share the values of our civilization? i doubt that. the coming to power of the islamists of the akp in 2002 threatens in particular the few rights previously granted to women. two facts illustrate this: the violent suppression of a peaceful demonstration by women last year and the return of polygamy. at a time when islamist associations are calling into question press freedom in our own countries, the european union, by welcoming turkey, would be denying the values on which it claims to base its foreign policy.
in writing. one of the most important challenges for european countries is their energy policy and their ability to use renewable energy to reduce their dependence on oil and gas supplies and the many fluctuations in oil and gas prices. renewable energy is expected to play a major role in heating and cooling, which currently accounts for almost 70% of energy expenditure in europe. we will therefore support measures which could encourage the use of these renewable energies: user information, removal of administrative barriers, aid for start-ups, encouragement of research, etc. but we will be particularly vigilant about respect for the sovereignty of the states in the matter of energy supply, as well as the tax aspects of any proposals that might be made. we have not yet fully assessed the impact of the liberalisation of electricity and gas markets on national energy balances. and there is no question of giving the commission, by means of tax proposals, additional powers in the field of energy policy, which the treaties do not confer on it but which it has already shown itself to be adept at appropriating by means of roundabout routes.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the commission, mr representative of the council, one could have imagined a more romantic topic for debate on valentine's day than the bolkestein directive. but, finally, given the circumstances, what observations does the gue/ngl group make of the latest version of this emblematic project? firstly, it is a matter of great satisfaction to note that the exceptional social and political mobilizations which have been multiplying for more than a year against this directive have produced a first result: we have both put the supporters of the directive on the defensive. and then, as the commission spokesman, commissioner mccreevy, who succeeded mr bolkestein, has just said, let us be realistic, there was a referendum in france and in the netherlands. or, as john marks, general secretary of the european trade union confederation, put it, "the success of the 'no' vote changed the european landscape because everyone understood afterwards that the social dimension had to be put at the centre of european policies". that is why we do not dismiss the changes which have taken place in the course of the various negotiations on the directive in the commission. the question is whether the directive as amended has become a good directive, whether its essential substance has changed. in short, if, as some claim, workers can now be assured of the future of their social rights. unfortunately, the answer is no, and those who say otherwise bear a heavy responsibility. on the one hand, they seriously underestimate the effects of the current community acquis, into which this directive, if adopted, would be inserted. beyond the treaties themselves, the current case law of the european court of justice, to which commissioner mccreevy has just made insistent and quite significant references, systematically protects companies providing services which are bound by the principle of the country of origin and always opposes the rules of the host country which are accused of hindering the activities of these companies. in the face of such a misuse of sovereignty, i think we must organise a real counter-offensive if we are to stop the machine that is levelling social achievements from below. by abandoning any explicit reference to the principle of the country of destination, the compromise between the epp and the pse is, on the contrary, lending a helping hand to the harassment of the commission and the court. on the other hand, i think that the advocates of this compromise greatly overestimate the scope of the social guarantees which they claim to have introduced in the draft directive. it is sufficient for an undertaking established in a country with less stringent social standards to offer its services throughout the union through so-called 'self-employed' workers for the host country to lose any right to require it to comply with local rules. another example: it is said that the provisions on the posting of workers now incorporated in the draft directive make it possible to guarantee that employees from other member states comply with the maximum working time. what a deal! i would remind you that the maximum working week is 48 hours in the union and even 65 hours in some countries. these same provisions are also intended to ensure compliance with collective agreements. in fact, nothing is less certain. this is a grey area of community law, as the spokesman for the commission's directorate-general for the internal market recently acknowledged. in such a precarious situation, any ambiguity, any half-measure, any room for interpretation left to the commission and the court must be avoided. the right message to send to them is clear: reject the directive as soon as we vote on thursday and, if we do not achieve this now, this will remain our objective throughout the process. in the meantime, my group will at least try to make explicit the primacy of the rules of the country of destination in the directive and to limit the scope of this text as much as possible, in particular by excluding any public service. from the atlantic to the baltic, from lapland to the peninsula, we say yes to equality, yes to solidarity, yes to the promotion of the rights of each and every individual, and therefore no to the bolkestein directive. in this spirit, i join you, mr president, in warmly welcoming to strasbourg the tens of thousands of workers who have come to defend their rights and the idea of a europe in which they can once again identify themselves. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as with the five-year plan and the reduced vat rate for restaurants, jacques chirac has lied for the third time about the bolkestein directive. it was not withdrawn in march 2005 as he had promised but only put to sleep the time of the referendum on the european constitution. it is now before the european parliament, a year later, amended and modified, but still contested. judging by the large number of amendments tabled, 404 of them, it cannot be said that the consensus sought by the rapporteur for the services directive, mrs gebhardt, has been reached. we are told that an agreement has been reached in extremis between the two main groups in the european parliament to remove the principle of country of origin, the main stumbling block of the directive. this is not the case, since this compromise was signed only by the delegates of the groups but was not submitted to the groups. this is a strange conception of representative democracy, which is conveyed complacently by the media. let us not be swayed by these false rumours but stick to the text of the report. it is a complex, unclear, ambiguous, contradictory and, more than that, dangerous report. not only are services of general economic interest, i.e. market public services, still included in the report, with a few exceptions, but a number of safeguards have disappeared. for the sake of simplification, the prior authorisation system has been abolished and replaced by the highly bureaucratic european one-stop-shop system. bolkestein is in fact the fake nose of the wto with the general agreement on trade in services which will impose on the states, happy to throw away the geneva machinery, the principle of the country of origin. the risk of social dumping is not excluded, especially since the european commission can rely on a majority of liberal states wishing to benefit from their comparative advantages. since all our powers have been transferred to brussels, particularly in competition matters, it is not surprising that our public services are being called into question, our professional orders are being challenged and our specificities are being flouted. the new world order cannot tolerate national resistance. everything must be standardized by law or by the market; in the absence of time, the market will destroy the flower of our industry, our commerce, our craftsmanship, our liberal professions, while waiting to attack our health service, education and culture. that is what we are fighting against.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i have the privilege of speaking in this debate because of the unfortunate outcome of the consideration of the report by our colleague, mrs sahra wagenknecht, by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. she finally withdrew her name from the report after the committee vote. in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, our rapporteur, sahra wagenknecht, wanted to propose the rejection of this directive on the grounds that article 16 proposed the principle of country of origin, which is incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity, jeopardises services of general interest and risks leading to fiscal, social and environmental dumping which jeopardises the very foundations of the european social model. our rapporteur also proposed that we oppose this principle of country of origin and the so-called 'bolkestein' directive, which we should now call the 'mccreevy' directive', on the grounds that it puts 25 legal systems in competition, creates legal uncertainty and risks unfair competition between companies which would no longer be subject to the same conditions. unfortunately, the committee on economic and monetary affairs did not follow through with its vote. the principle of the country of origin in particular, our committee thought, should be the rule, even if it is likely to be called into question by the plenary. however, the committee on economic and monetary affairs considered that a number of services should be excluded as they were subject to specific regulations contained in other community instruments. in particular, it was financial services. the risk of inconsistency in such a basis for exclusion has fortunately been eliminated by the vote of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i hope that the same will be true in plenary. however, in the committee on economic and monetary affairs we also ruled out the liberalization of services of general economic interest, the privatization of public entities providing services and the idea that this directive should not affect community rules on competition and state aid.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, as far back as 1957, the six founding countries of the european economic community had committed themselves to the creation of a single market in which people, goods, capital and services would move freely. almost 50 years later, the only thing that has not yet been implemented is the free movement of services. the proposal for a services directive, which is part of the process of economic reforms launched by the lisbon european council to make europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010, constitutes, as proposed today, a major political advance for the european union. for eighteen months the european parliament has been working to rewrite the commission's original proposal to a profoundly altered version. it is a balanced version of the treaty, which seeks to reconcile economic efficiency by opening up the services market with social justice by preserving the social acquis which protects the citizens of the union. this version also recognises the specific nature of certain services, in particular cultural and audiovisual services. these services have an identity and value and, in this sense, cannot be considered as consumer goods or market services like others. in addition, audiovisual services are already the subject of a sectoral approach at community level through the 'television without frontiers' directive. the latter fulfils the objectives of the services directive, namely to guarantee the freedom to provide services while allowing the pursuit of other objectives such as the promotion of european content, respect for cultural diversity and the promotion of programme pluralism. in view of these principles, the committee on culture and education, followed by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, voted by a large majority in favour of inserting a cultural reserve clause and excluding audiovisual services from the scope of the directive. it is essential that the 'television without frontiers' directive, which is currently being revised, remains the only reference text in this field. but a directive on services is also needed to enable a genuine internal market for services to be achieved within the european union. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate evelyne gebhardt on the quality of her report, but also malcolm harbour, marianne thyssen, jacques toubon and othmar karas who have worked very hard to achieve a text that we can vote on thursday with no emotion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing the bolkestein masquerade, which is back in the european parliament. this compromise, this disguise, this deception is both a lie and a scandal. it is a lie because they are trying to make us believe that the bolkestein directive is devoid of substance, of content. nothing is more wrong! the principle of the country of origin is there, and right there, with the freedom to provide services, especially for self-employed craftsmen. the principle of the primacy of national law over european law is absent, and we have heard several speakers explain to us on several occasions that all this is being dealt with by the european court of justice, whose case law we already know. this is a scandal.
madam president, i find it obviously very regrettable that this mistake should have happened by chance at the time when one of the main french spokesmen for the 'no' vote was speaking. so you interrupted me, you can protest. the french people said no on 29 may 2005, no to the bolkestein directive. and i regret that i am being interrupted by cutting off a third of my speaking time, at a time when i am saying that the bolkestein directive has gone out the big door of universal suffrage with a kick in the butt, sent by the french people, and now it is back here in the european parliament. it is purely and simply a provocation for the french people who will be watching the images on all the television channels tonight, because the french people heard jacques chirac, the president of the republic, say last may: 'bolkestein, it is over'. it wasn't over, it's a provocation!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as members of the liberal and democratic group, the members of the union for french democracy are of course strong supporters of the free movement of services. we must put an end to the discriminatory and protectionist practices of the member states, and that is why we are in favour of a directive on services drawn up here and not by the case law of the court of justice. but we demand that a balance be struck between this freedom for the economic development of europe and respect for labour law, environmental protection and consumer protection. it is true that we would have preferred genuine harmonization to the clumsy and imprudent text proposed to us. we should all have known that this project would lead to a massive and justified rejection of european opinion. at the present stage we could have avoided this further blow to the image of european integration. i must say, madam president, that the commission's lack of political judgment has been matched only by that of the french government authorities, who have proved to be an unexpected partner in this waltz of blunders. but to get to the bottom of it, i would like to congratulate the progress that has been made in our debates in this parliament. my dear colleagues, we can achieve the protection of labour law by abolishing articles 24 and 25. we can reject the principle of the country of origin by adopting the compromise on article 16 which has become amendment no 293 and which also opens the way to the harmonization we are calling for. i hope that we can get the social services and economic services of general interest excluded from this directive by voting for our amendments. we have been with the rapporteurs, mrs gebhardt and mrs van lancker, throughout this process, and i thank them for their listening and their openness. if parliament is willing to go along with this, which we hope it will, we will be able to support this text in the final vote because it will be profoundly amended.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as a new member of parliament, i should like to say that during this debate, now eighteen months into it, i have discovered the richness and quality of the work that is being done here. i would like to pay tribute to our committee on the internal market and consumer protection, its late chairman, phillip whitehead, its rapporteur, evelyne gebhardt, and the rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, anne van lancker. i would like to thank the leaders of our group, to whose work we owe the project we are discussing today: malcolm harbour, fictitious rapporteur and coordinator of our group; marianne thyssen, our vice-chair; and our tireless secretariat. i also welcome the work of marie-hélène descamps and roselyne bachelot, members of the french delegation. thanks to all of them, we have achieved a considerable result: the compromise is a new text. it first established the internal market in services. this project takes away from the court of justice the de facto monopoly it has had for 50 years on the implementation of the principles of the treaties. the internal market in services is based on mutual trust and involves cooperation and administrative simplification, the abolition of protectionist barriers, both for the establishment of service companies and for temporary provision. it applies to services of general economic interest for the sole purpose of freedom of establishment, while excluding many essential services such as audiovisual and cinema, games, health, legal professions. the compromise therefore proposes that parliament should vote on a framework law geared to economic growth, innovation and employment, which is what the people of europe want. but compromise also brings us respect for our model and our collective national preferences. will the directive lead to the dismantling of our social acquis? is it going to cause a leveling at the bottom? the commission's original proposal was undeniably risky. that's why we refused it! but the compromise proposed to you is a barrier to social dumping, is based on subsidiarity, implements the freedom to provide services in a pragmatic and limited way. the compromise explicitly excludes social and labour law. social competition is prohibited. in the area of freedom of establishment, many national regulations are respected. and freedom to provide services goes hand in hand with the guarantee for member states to be able to apply their national rules when the public interest so requires. it is a compromise, and it is being criticized on both sides, which shows that we are in the middle. i therefore hope, on behalf of my french colleagues, that you will support it by voting for it by a very large majority. it would be a victory for the european parliament, it would be a victory for the european union.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office, completing the internal market is one thing, it is a goal we share. the dismantling of the european social model is another and we are fighting against it. we are fighting it because it is contrary to the interests of the citizens, the workers and the european consumers, but also because it jeopardises the citizens' commitment to the european project. the original bolkestein proposal for a directive was deeply rejected because it sought to base the completion of the internal market on the weakening of social rights, environmental standards and consumer protection which had reached a higher level in some of the member states than in others. by seeking to base the internal market no longer on competition between firms but on competition between the social systems of the various member states, the bolkestein proposal gave the impression of playing the interests of the member states against each other. it has created a state of distrust between old and new members, which is contrary to the european commission's mission of uniting all europeans around a common project. by including many social services and part of the economic services of general interest in the scope of the directive, the commission has sought to subject activities essential to social cohesion to the logic of competition and the market alone. with the country of origin principle, it has turned its back on the community method of sectoral harmonization; the commission has always tried to bring the provisions in force in the member states closer together, thus seeking to promote mutual recognition and economic integration without jeopardizing the european social model and - i repeat - the sometimes higher level of protection achieved in certain countries. it was about tuning up. with this draft, for the first time, the european commission has proposed legislation which, on the contrary, encourages the disparity of national rights and gives a premium to the least demanding states. the commission is not the originator of the original proposal. it has a responsibility, however: after having recognised that this text was badly designed, badly put together - as you said, mr mccreevy - it was your responsibility to withdraw it and propose another, more in line with european social principles and of a nature to restore the confidence of the citizens. that is why the french socialists will vote against the amendment. you said, mr barroso, that the commission was ready to take up amendments which would help to move towards the internal market in services, but you did not say what you would do with amendments which would guarantee social rights, environmental standards, consumer rights. nor have you said anything about what you will do with amendments which exclude social services and certain services of general economic interest from the scope of the directive. mr mccreevy even said this afternoon that he wanted to keep some services of general economic interest within the scope of the directive. you give the impression that you do not hear parliament or that you only hear it when it is in favour of liberalization. i would like to conclude, commissioner, mr president, by saying that this afternoon's demonstration was an expression of the expectation of a europe which is, on the contrary, more socially protective. we shall vote on the exclusion of the whole of the public services directive from the scope of the directive, the removal of the country of origin and the establishment of clear legal rules on the applicable law. unfortunately, this is not the case in the compromise which is currently being proposed and we have therefore tabled amendments to that effect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i ask you, on behalf of the green group, to allow for a break in the sitting on thursday, just before the final vote. parliament and the commission should erect a statue to mr bolkestein, the best-known european of 2005 and 2006, to remind everyone that we do not want any more of this kind of proposal on the initiative of the european commission. it is true that today we are no longer dealing with the original bolkestein directive: our parliamentary committees have worked and worked well. but is that enough to accept this compromise? i don't think so, and we don't think so, to be honest. there are still too many areas of confusion in this text, particularly as regards the possibilities of control in the areas of labour law, environmental law and consumer law. it is not possible to accept that economic services of general interest such as social services or social housing are covered by this directive. if we want to restore confidence to all our citizens, who are increasingly doubtful about the role of european integration in improving their daily lives, we must move quickly towards genuine social harmonization from the top, in particular by drawing up as a matter of priority a directive defining the notions of a european public service.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us imagine what we are going to do next. it is time to remember that we are in a codecision procedure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the tour he made of the capitals of europe confirmed what we know. the compromise reached with evelyne gebhardt, which i welcome, is the only compromise possible within the council and between parliament and the council. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the internal market. to insist on this version would be a pyrrhic victory. the main finding is also that the divergence between us has become an east-west divergence. and through this observation, the logic of enlargement is now being called into question. let us not forget that the failure of the services directive would take place after the wreckage of the constitution, the worries about the financial outlook and the doubts about the lisbon agenda. the european union must now be part of a strategy of reconciliation to maintain a community ambition. i have identified a real problem in the sense of discrimination felt by the new member states in the face of the restrictions imposed on the free movement of workers. i would like to say to them in a friendly manner that it is not by rejecting the compromise and therefore, in the end, the services directive, or by calling into question the secondment directive, that they will overcome this discrimination, quite the contrary. that is the spirit of the work we have carried out under the aegis of anne van lancker in the committee on employment and social affairs in deleting articles 24 and 25 from the original text. we must now make a solemn call for the moratorium to be lifted and for all restrictions on the free movement of workers in the new member states to be lifted. it would also be interesting if these issues were linked when the services directive was discussed in the council. but the examination of the text also revealed the many shortcomings of the community's legal arsenal. some have expressed legitimate fears, and these need to be addressed. let us take the undeniable advances of the text, our work as legislators is only just beginning.
mr president, as many have pointed out, the european commission's original proposal is socially dangerous, badly made, legally complicated, in short, exactly the opposite of good legislation, that is to say legislation which is useful to the european project and its citizens. we are the representatives of the people here. there were tens of thousands of them in the streets of strasbourg that afternoon. i believe that this is a healthy democratic exercise by the fictitious rapporteurs and the rapporteurs in rejecting the directive as it stands and proposing substantial changes to its content. the greens want a european market for services, but they are categorically opposed to the competition between national laws which is implied by the principle of the country of origin and which would in fact result in harmonisation from below. that is why we shall vote in favour of the proposal. we have also proposed amendments which break with the principle of the country of origin and exclude economic services of general interest from its scope.
commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by paying tribute to the work of our rapporteur, evelyne gebhardt, who has in fact done a complete rewrite of the text. how can we tell you, commissioner, that the european citizens no longer want this europe that is at least social? perhaps in the language of the country of origin? despite great progress in excluding health care, services of general interest, the preservation of the posting of workers directive, i regret that sgeis and social services are still not excluded. i refuse to see these public service missions subordinated to the rules of the competitive market. similarly, the exclusion of labour law in article 2 would be very desirable in order to avoid generating a random litigation. finally, even if the country of origin is no longer mentioned, the proposed compromise will leave the effective power of the legislator to the community judicature which will determine the direction of european social policy. it would have been preferable to apply the principle of the country of destination to the exercise of service activities and the principle of the country of origin to the right of access alone. as for those who falsely claimed that voting no to the draft european constitution would mean the death of the bolkestein directive, the events of the day show them that the directive is very much alive and that it requires our utmost vigilance and a sustained fight.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission was asked last week by the european parliament to make a statement on innovative sources of financing for development cooperation. commissioner michel cannot be here tonight as he is travelling to eastern africa to previous engagements which could not be rescheduled. he is extremely sorry not to be able to share with you the commission’s views on this topic and has asked me to step in for him. aid needs to be substantially increased if the millennium development goals are to be achieved. the european union has not shied away from its responsibilities towards its partner countries. quite the contrary: the european council of june 2005 forcefully restated its support for the millennium development goals with ambitious commitments on both the quality and the quantity of aid. in particular, the european council has committed itself to increasing official development assistance with the aim of achieving a target of 0.7% of gross national income in 2015. to that end, a collective target of 0.56% of gni has been fixed for 2010. however, more aid will not be enough. we need to ensure that current and promised increases in financing are provided in ways which actually help countries meet their commitments to achieve the millennium development goals. in the recently approved joint statement by the council, the european parliament and the commission on the european consensus for development, the european union commits itself to the more predictable and less volatile aid mechanisms. the commission believes that innovative mechanisms for financing development have a useful role to play. for this reason during 2005, at the request of the council, the commission produced a series of staff working papers providing technical analysis of innovative sources of financing for development. in addition, in april 2005, the commission adopted a communication to the council and the european parliament, ‘accelerating progress towards attaining the millennium development goals – financing for development and aid effectiveness’. amongst other things, this communication discussed innovative sources of financing and new delivery aid mechanisms and invited the council to ‘agree to accelerate work on the most promising options for innovative additional sources of finance’. the commission noted that any innovative sources of financing must be assessed in light of a number of criteria. for example: how much would each proposal raise? to what extent would the funds be additional to existing commitments? how stable and predictable would they be? what are the competitiveness and sectoral impacts? what would the launch and administration costs be? which proposals can go forward fastest? is universal support required or can proposals be implemented at regional – that is eu – level? the commission notes france’s readiness to start implementation of one of the proposals emerging from that debate, namely, the imposition of a solidarity contribution on all air tickets sold in france as of july 2006. this initiative may have a positive effect on other countries’ readiness to carry forward initiatives in the area of financing for development. the commission would also like to inform the european parliament that, to support the debate and preserve the momentum on these issues, a technical workshop between the commission and member state representatives was held on 9 february 2006. the workshop touched upon the existing initiatives, as well as possible alternatives with respect to innovative financing. the commission, however, also looked at ways in which existing aid arrangements could be modified and complemented so as to deliver resources in more predictable ways. finally, the commission would like to note that, during the workshop, the french representatives gave an update on the high-level conference to be held in paris on 28 february and 1 march. representatives of the commission will be present at that event.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, the european union must be a spearhead in the achievement of the millennium development goals. since the monterrey conference in 2002 and the un summit in september 2005, the international community has understood that the challenge of development must be met by a common policy that integrates the millennium development goals. at a time when the north-south divide is widening and the growing prosperity of the industrialized countries is reflected in the poverty of many countries in the south, it is high time that the international community's mobilization translates into concrete action. if the european union is the main donor, it must do more, it must do better and it must do it faster. the european consensus for development and the new strategy for africa are in this direction, as is the recent announcement of the creation of a european fund to finance african projects, and i welcome this. despite the increase in traditional public support, current figures show that the achievement of the millennium development goals requires the adoption of complementary financing mechanisms. at the initiative of several member states, innovative and complementary financial instruments are being created. the european union must work towards their implementation in order to raise stable and predictable resources to meet the unmet needs of developing countries, particularly in the health sector. several member states are already supporting these initiatives. some of them, including france, as you mentioned, mr commissioner, have committed themselves to setting up international solidarity contributions, particularly on airline tickets. at the next ministerial conference, member states will deepen the international consensus on the need to establish innovative and concrete sources of funding. this meeting should be an opportunity to continue the momentum generated in new york at the last united nations summit.
mr president, commissioner, for thirty years now the rich countries have been unable to fulfil the commitment they made to the un to raise their development aid to 0.7%. it's a scandal and we're all here to seek new ideas. i find it very regrettable that the commission has so few of them and that the communication you have been asked to read is so hollow. you have not even mentioned the british idea of taxing capital movements. you have just mentioned a french idea of taxing aircraft movements. in this quest for new ideas, let me offer you one more. the commission, in its document of last april, i believe, put forward the idea of a world lottery. commissioner michel, when i questioned him, here in the chamber, acknowledged that this was a possibility. you didn't even take it back. i think, commissioner, that it is easier to achieve than many others. the world food programme, which took this idea and studied it, concluded that with four drawings a year based on an estimate of at least 1% of the revenue from gambling in our countries, we would raise $400 million a year that the world food programme proposes to allocate to the fight against hunger among children around the world. why has the commission not adopted this idea? i have no pleasure in looking for a solution outside our budgets: our countries should be serious enough to live up to their commitments, but since they are not capable of doing so, this new idea has at least the merit of not disturbing anyone and of being free from any constraint, except the legal authorization, in each of our states, to allocate this share of profit to the world food programme rather than to the local state. it's easy to do. i therefore suggest that the commission take the initiative and strongly encourage our states to implement it.
mr president, i am speaking on the agenda. the issues we're going to be addressing this morning are absolutely essential. i am glad that our house has the opportunity to do so in a calm and mutually understanding manner. however, other items were proposed for inclusion in the agenda, including an analysis of the impact on the whole of the european union of the hostile takeover bid by mittal steel. i think it would have been right for this house to have spoken on this matter. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. hannah arendt said, "freedom bothers and hurts". people may even flee from it, because it can be heavy and unpleasant at times. i think that there is one thing that we cannot do as politicians and as people in politics, and that is, for example, try to formulate for the press what their limits are. this is something politicians cannot and must not do. only a society knows what common sense is. we politicians can of course talk about where we hurt people with our actions when we make laws for foreigners, like in denmark, that hurt and do not respect immigrants. we can criticize this here, as the council of europe did with denmark. we can also criticize the fact that a questionnaire for muslims is being drawn up in the german länder, for example, and that it is clearly not respectful of muslims. we can criticise and discuss this as politicians. i beg you . this whole border debate is a social debate. mr barroso is right: one has the right to publish caricatures, against us politicians, against me, against hans-gert pöttering and anyone else. we have the right to say in public that we don't like it. the muslims have the right and we respect that to demonstrate against this. as members of the jewish community demonstrated against a play by rainer-werner fassbinder. this is a social issue. we cannot formulate a code of conduct for the press. the press must do this or not, that is not our job! in the world conflict it is always said that religions must be respected. yes, but religions are in the public domain, and as such they will be the targets of blasphemous caricatures. it's part of religion and democracy, like the air we breathe, that's what it is. that doesn't mean that you have to think these cartoons are good, tasteful. freedom is neither tasteful nor tasteless. freedom is something we have fought for, and it has not yet collapsed because there was too much freedom, but it has always collapsed because there was too little freedom. far too little! that's why i say i'm not in solidarity with the cartoons. i can tell you which ones i smiled at, which ones i laughed at, which ones i found repulsive. i am in solidarity with all the people who are victims of violence in this conflict. i find it appalling that, for example, large european companies - carrefour, nestlé - have put up ads in saudi arabia saying: 'we are not danes, we are french!' this is tasteless, we can attack it! but please, no self-righteousness! let us not exclude religion from the social debate, because religions too have the right to say what is right or wrong. on the abortion issue, on the homosexuality issue, we cannot caricature them when they say nonsense about it - that's our freedom. we want to defend that freedom too. if we were to respect immigrants more in our world, if we were to respect them more with our laws, they would have the opportunity to discuss our freedoms differently. let us give them the freedoms we claim for ourselves and they will use that freedom responsibly! (applause from the green group)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, of all the peremptory judgments that have been made so far in the so-called mohammed cartoons case, few have seemed convincing to me. the subject is open to all kinds of manias and i think it is a trap that must be avoided at all costs. i think that a calm and nuanced reflection on the various aspects of the problem we are facing is urgently needed. firstly, there is the question of freedom of expression, which is obviously the cornerstone of democracy and also the cornerstone of the existence of a secular public space to which we attach legitimate importance. in this space, critical thinking, a personal relationship with one's faith and tolerance are supposed to prevail. we must not compromise on these gains, but at the same time we must agree that defending these principles cannot be accommodated with insult, amalgamation and stigmatisation, let alone justify them. we keep saying that we are all living in the same world, which is getting smaller and smaller, where everything is interdependent and where europe, the west in general, or any other region is not the centre. well, we have to learn the hard way. we now act continuously in the eyes of all mankind. we must therefore strive to promote a kind of global civility. the freedom of each individual is exercised with respect for all. on the other hand, what can be said about the totally disproportionate reactions of some arab states to these incidents, if they are not aimed above all at reinforcing the somewhat tarnished image of the leaders among their populations because of their submission to a great power that is otherwise more culpable than the peaceful denmark? elsewhere, it is the radical islamists who are competing with the european right-wing extremists in exploiting such affairs to galvanize their respective troops and silence the reasonable, courageous and progressive voices that are vying for their ground. the worst thing we could do is to add water to the body's defenses instead of trying to break the cycle. let us instead look behind this cyclical frenzy and beyond the absolutely reprehensible excesses it engenders at what it reveals most essentially, namely the exacerbated expression of identities wounded by a deep sense of injustice, domination and humiliation, for which the west, from palestine to iraq in particular, is held responsible. as the great palestinian poet mahmoud darwich has more generally pointed out: "arabs and muslims feel that they are being pushed out of history". i think that this is where the essential role that europe could play is to be seen: to build bridges between civilizations. but for such an ambition to be credible, it requires a clear emancipation from those who, by behaving as masters of the world, are in reality leading it - we see it every day a little more - to the brink of conflict. it also means applying the same international law to all states without exception, in order to put an end in particular to this open wound in the middle east, which is the endless source of the poison of despair. may the unfortunate cartoon affair serve as a warning of the strategic choices that lie ahead of us! (applause from the left)
mr president, first of all we must remember that it was europe that sold this nuclear technology to iran. we tend to forget that, which doesn't put us in the best position to protest today. secondly, we must bear in mind that there is a very large difference between the degrees of enrichment of uranium for civil or military purposes. thirdly, as regards nuclear weapons, is it not shocking that our international community has allowed several countries to the east and west of iran to acquire nuclear weapons without any reaction? finally, speaking exclusively about the external aspects of the iranian revolution, i would remind you that the most radical and hostile forms of islamism come to us from countries other than iran, contrary to what has been said by some speakers. in conclusion, we have been fed so many lies in the past that we have a right to be better informed. we must ensure that the rules of law which we claim are the same for all. it's the condition of our credibility.
mr president, i cannot help but draw a connection between president mahmoud ahmadinejad's statements calling for the removal of israel from the map and iran's decision to resume its uranium conversion activities. i don't think the coincidence of these two events is coincidental. nor do i think that our institution can reasonably ignore the correlation between these two events. many countries are developing their nuclear power. yet the only concern of the international community is the proliferation of those who pose an immediate threat to world peace. i believe that if we do not trust iran today, it is because, among other things, its president is making bellicose, anti-semitic and anti-semitic statements. it is the malign intentions of this president that make the resumption of the uranium enrichment program so disturbing to the peace of this world. that is why i welcome this resolution.
in writing. the report on the community air traffic controller licence which we are about to vote on is of great importance in the construction of the single european sky. the european harmonisation of national licences will allow inspectors to work throughout the territory covered by the single sky. in addition, the licence will provide for improvements in traffic management safety and ensure the harmonisation of the training of future controllers to a high level of competence. this report proposes the adoption of the council's common position, which takes up the agreement reached between our two institutions a few months ago. the compromise we have reached with the council takes account of both the legitimate concerns of increased safety and the requirements of freedom of movement of air traffic controllers. at a time when europe is sometimes misunderstood by our fellow citizens, it is important that we rely on projects such as this one to restore their confidence in the european construction. i would like to conclude by thanking the european commission for their cooperation.
in writing. once is not customary, but there are several ways in which we can commend this text. the introduction of a common air traffic controller licence can only contribute to the safety objective that everyone hopes for in this sector, which has unfortunately given us too many examples of air disasters. in this connection, i also welcome the fact that a complementary system of blacklists of airlines considered to be dangerous has been established and can be imposed on all the member states of the european union. i also think it should be noted that europe is moving in the right direction with regard to the harmonization of the training and professional qualifications of air traffic controllers. we are not seeing them being levelled from below, quite the contrary. in particular, relatively high levels of social, technical, linguistic and professional standards are laid down as regards the conditions for entry into the profession, the qualifications required and the content of initial training. this is all the more important as, unfortunately, too often, air traffic controllers are required to deal with extreme and dangerous situations such as hijacking or a crisis. so let's protect this profession because the safety of passengers in an entire industry depends on it.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it will not surprise you to hear that the council is very concerned about the negative developments in belarus, especially with regard to the forthcoming elections on 19 march. the question of belarus has been discussed repeatedly in the council recently, and we have noted with concern that the regime of president lukashenko is becoming increasingly repressive, increasingly isolated and, above all, isolating itself. we have of course taken note with satisfaction of the invitation to the osce and odir to observe the elections. this is certainly a good step, and one which we are quite prepared to welcome. but our concern about the deterioration of the situation in belarus remains, and we have a legitimate concern about whether these elections will be democratic. the council of ministers also adopted a resolution on the situation in belarus. these send a clear signal that it is necessary to ensure that the osce can carry out its election observation mandate fully and unimpeded. at the same time, it was also warned that further restrictive measures could be taken against individuals responsible if the presidential elections do not meet recognised international standards. the european union's policy towards belarus was last reviewed in the council conclusions of 7 november last year. these conclusions represent a balanced mix of engagement with the population and civil society on the one hand and a tougher line towards the regime on the other. they also referred to the intention of the high representative, mr javier solana, to appoint a close collaborator to his contact point for belarus. we are all aware that work on belarus must be done in the longer term. it is not a bold prediction to assume that the elections on 19 march will not bring real change. there was also a real effort to convey our messages in the run-up to the elections and to make them clear. the plan was to hold a high-level joint meeting between the representatives of the european union and the united states at the level of the director-general for external and political-military relations of the council, robert cooper, and the u.s. assistant secretary of state for europe, dan fried, at the beginning of february. however, the belarusian authorities have refused to give these two personalities visas for a simultaneous visit, which is why this approach will not be possible. we have made it clear and expressed our disappointment that the belarusian authorities have failed to take this opportunity for an open and free dialogue with the international community. in this context, i should also like to mention that on 30 january, the day of the last council meeting, the candidate of the belarusian opposition, alexander milinkievitch, visited brussels and met informally with representatives of the member states. there were a lot of ministers present, more than half the member states were represented by ministers, and there was also a meeting with solana and commission president barroso and commissioner ferrero-waldner. this was undoubtedly a clear and unmistakable sign of the european union's support for the democratic process in belarus, even though we, as the european union, do not support individual candidates. i would like to say very clearly, despite all the criticisms that can and must be made, that the aim of the european union's policy is not to isolate belarus. we want to see - and this is our goal - a democratic, stable and economically successful belarus. a belarus which can become a member of the council of europe and which maintains correct, good and strong relations with the international community, including and in particular with the european union. for this reason, we have made it clear that if belarus develops sustainably in the right direction, it could of course also benefit from the european neighbourhood policy. we want to make it clear that we are ready to lend a hand to the people of belarus and help the country to integrate into european structures. we want to maintain normal and friendly relations with that country. but under the present circumstances this is not possible. the council will not turn a blind eye to the continuing violations of human rights and civil liberties and will continue to express its concern about the negative developments in belarus. in order to promote democracy in belarus, the council remains ready to engage intensively and to cooperate and coordinate with international partners, and in particular, at the meeting with mr milinkiewicz, which i have already mentioned, we discussed ways of helping civil society which is working for democratic development in its own country and ways in which we can directly influence those circles in belarus which are working for democratic development. regardless of the likely outcome of the election, we must make a joint effort to preserve the presence and influence of the european union in belarus. the european union's involvement is, as i said, a long-term project, but we should not be discouraged by the current difficulties and we should not lose sight of our objective!
member of the commission. mr president, commissioner ferrero-waldner had very much hoped to be with you to discuss belarus. she has been intensely engaged in developing the commission’s activities on belarus since we took office and i am convinced she will not miss the opportunity to discuss belarus with the russian foreign minister at their meeting that is being held in vienna today. on behalf of commissioner ferrero-waldner and the commission i am pleased to have this opportunity to exchange views with you on the situation in belarus in the run-up to the 19 march presidential election and on the commission’s work to support democratisation and to support civil society. let me start by saying a few words on the overall situation in belarus. the commission is still deeply concerned about the absence of democracy and the lack of respect for human rights in belarus. this situation has further deteriorated as the election date is nearing and has resulted in a severe quashing of the voice of the opposition and the stifling of the independent press over the last few months. the fact that an osce mission has been invited to observe the presidential election and that a number of contenders to president lukashenko are likely to be allowed to contest the presidential race is a welcome move, but not sufficient evidence of a functioning democracy. at this juncture, when the osce observers have started their work on the ground, it is important that the european union and the commission contribute to the smooth functioning of the mission. the european union’s opinion and reaction will be based on this mission’s report. in terms of the european union’s response, you are well aware of the unequivocal message that the european union conveyed to belarus and reiterated in the general affairs and external relations council of 30 january: the european union has stressed the importance it attaches to a democratic election process and has also clearly voiced its resolve to issue targeted sanctions in the event that these elections prove to be fraudulent. to balance this message with a positive note, the european union has repeated its offer to have closer relations with belarus, provided that we see convincing progress towards democracy. let me now turn to the commission’s specific action and underline that the commission has made good on its pledge to raise its role in belarus. faced with growing repression and restrictions by the government of belarus on foreign assistance to non-governmental bodies, the commission has stepped up and speeded up such assistance to belarus. in 2005 alone, up to eur 8.9 million have been dedicated to democracy and civil society projects. creative tools have been developed to overcome the hurdles to assistance delivery. we have thus shifted part of our support to ngos located outside belarus. the eur 2.2 million we granted last december to the european humanitarian university in exile, as well as our support to independent media, are vibrant examples of this novel approach. in the field of independent media, i am delighted to say that the commission has been at the forefront of donors’ action. we have started with support to the radio broadcasting of daily news reports to belarus in both russian and belarusian. however, our main achievement is a eur 2 million media project which is now being launched. it includes radio and television broadcasting, internet activities, support to the belarusian independent press, and the training of belarusian journalists. the project will allow the broadcasting of specific tv and radio programmes as from february, well ahead of the elections. we believe this high-quality project, which is supported by a europe-wide team and sharply factors in belarusian sensitivities – that is, no propaganda, straight news and sheer entertainment – will rightly reach out to large segments of the population. in addition, the commission has decided to open a delegation in minsk but unfortunately the belarusian authorities have not yet given their agreement. pending progress on this front, we will post a chargé d’affaires to kiev who will travel frequently to minsk. finally, last monday the commission brought together all international donors to belarus in order to plan ahead. this meeting has set in motion a common reflection on assistance beyond the election date. this meeting was a signal that assistance and coordination will not dwindle after the election date. in conclusion, let me emphasise that the democratic process in belarus is likely to be a long process that will eventually succeed only with the support of the population. this is why we must continue our efforts to raise awareness among the belarusian population at large through support to civil society and facilitation of contacts between the people. as belarus stands at the crossroads, it is more crucial than ever that we all pool our efforts to implement a common strategy and be ready to react to developments in belarus as they take place. the commission remains committed to doing its part.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, as usual, i can only express in a few words my disagreement with the remarks just made by the council and the commission. i find it a little easy, here as elsewhere, to reproach a sovereign country for not fully meeting the standards we have set for recognizing this or that government, whether we like it or not, in fact, for any other reason. after the collapse of the soviet empire, belarus was left to a few bands of predators who were certainly no more legitimate because they served the interests of this or that multinational, to the point that we saw ministers selling public property, so to speak, by apartment, for their own account, often to european companies. it was called liberalization. and we also see, of course, belarus being used by a few western powers, too happy to turn it, and with it the bases it offered, against the great sister nation, russia. let us not be blinded by a propaganda which is a little too easy. if we are asked today to condemn the authorities in minsk, it is not for the good of the belarusian people, but simply to serve as a stealthy relay for an american strategy which aims to contain russian power within the narrowest possible limits, depriving it of its most natural alliances, those of history and those of geography. this is the work of sorcery apprentices, as we have seen in ukraine over the past year, and it is not for the good of europe, of the real europe, which must include russia and all its allies in its balance, and sooner or later it will do so.
president of the council. i now turn to the council to conclude this debate. the council of ministers shall adopt the measures necessary to implement this decision. mr president, my very sincere congratulations to you, ladies and gentlemen! let me first state something quite clear, because it was mentioned in the debate: the concern for human rights anywhere in the world is the right of every state, the criticism of human rights abuses is not interference in internal affairs. this was recorded at the latest in 1993 at the vienna world conference on human rights. it is therefore the european union's right, and the right of each state, to take care of the observance of human rights in another state. the european union does so, and i thank the european parliament for this commitment and for the clear statements made yesterday in this debate. they also make it easier for the council and the commission to work, because it is important that the european institutions have a say in the matter. i may perhaps add to the contribution of mrs schroedter that it is hard to see that the instruments available have not been used efficiently to date. we're better off without you. i would like to say in this context that the creation of the new external aid instruments on the european neighbourhood policy will improve the situation and we also want to help ourselves in this sense, so that the use of the funds in a more efficient manner is ensured. i may also say in this context, because it was mentioned several times in the debate, that the troika meeting of foreign ministers in vienna with the russian foreign minister is taking place today, because commissioner borg has said that commissioner ferrero-waldner is also taking part. the agenda of this important meeting will of course also include the issue of belarus. it is of course important that russia too speaks the right words. we all know that russia has a certain influence on the events in belarus. we want to take yesterday's speech very seriously: in fact, it is necessary to promote contacts between scientists, young people and members of civil society by giving them the opportunity to travel. that is something we really have to watch. it would not be right if we did not make it possible for these people, who are using their freedom to establish democratic conditions, to establish themselves together with our institutions for a democratisation in belarus. the presidency elections were mentioned. they would be an opportunity for belarus to take the right path. as most speakers have said, these chances are not very great, and the european commission and the council will have to consider how to react to the irregularities in the elections. we are naturally prepared to take measures to deal with this. we must however ensure that we do not, as is often the case, meet the false sanctions. we don't want to meet the civilian population. we also want to meet the civil society. on the contrary, we want to promote it, and we want to do everything so that the basis for longterm change in belarus can be reached. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank honourable members of parliament for all their comments, which, in general, reinforce the commitment of this house to seek democracy and respect for human rights in belarus. as i stated in my opening remarks, the commission, for its part, has played an active role in belarus through its support for ngos and media organisations and action to help raise awareness among the belarusian population in the hope that this may bring about democratic change. the european union has stressed the importance it attaches to a democratic election process, and we are ready to offer closer relations if and when we see convincing progress towards genuine democracy and respect for human rights. in response to what mr wiersma and other members said concerning the presidential election scheduled for 19 march, the commission regrets that the european parliament has not been invited to observe the elections. this is indeed disappointing, but not a surprising decision, given the situation in the country. we will be following closely what the osce/odihr mission will be reporting on the elections. meps could possibly form part of the national allocations from member states to the osce/odihr mission. regarding the point raised by ms schroedter and other meps, i should like to repeat that the commission is seeking to address the situation in a novel way through support for the european humanitarian university in exile and for independent media. regarding what ms záborská said, i would again emphasise that a good part of the commission strategy is to support independent media in both the russian and belarusian languages – deutsche welle in particular – to ensure that they can truly act as a catalyst for change. concerning the emphasis placed by mr muscat on youth, i thank him for his comments and assure him that the commission is indeed focusing its efforts on civil society, including the youth of belarus, who are the hope for a better future. on the point raise by ms vaidere, i should like to state that discussions are under way at council working group-level with a view to finding some practical solutions to the common approach on visa facilitation. with regard to mr pavilionis’s point, i cannot agree more that we need to support any action in favour of the youth of belarus and, in particular, in favour of the european humanitarian university in exile. the eur 2 million media project involves not only partners from germany and russia, but also a polish radio station, a lithuanian radio station, german and dutch ngos and belarusian journalists. it is therefore a europe-wide project. the russian television partner, rtvi, has demonstrated its fully independent stance from the russian government. as a matter of fact, rtvi is made up of journalists who have escaped government-controlled media outlets. all television and radio programmes will be in both russian and belarusian. television programmes aired in russian will systematically be subtitled in belarusian.
i have received six motions for resolutions at the end of this debate, pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 4.50 p.m. pending question time to the commission and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, the report by the committee on agriculture and rural development is balanced. it does not advocate a common forestry policy but shows the need for coordination. the report acknowledges that member states have very different definitions of what they mean by forest, which only allows for an incomplete evaluation of important community measures in the forestry field. i personally find it regrettable that the proposal for a european forestry observatory has not been accepted. this observatory would have provided reliable, valuable data. if not, i support the proposal that calls on the european commission to improve coordination between the different directorates-general responsible for forestry and calls for a stronger role for the standing committee on forests. i had suggested that the commission should be invited to propose to the member states mechanisms, including taxation-based mechanisms, to encourage forest owners to plant native species for the maintenance of biodiversity and to control fire risk. the spirit of this proposal is echoed in the report which recommends measures to prevent fires and combat desertification, reforestation with indigenous species, the promotion of diversity, the sustainable management of natural forests and the promotion of environmental services, in particular for the protection of water systems and the fight against erosion. these actions by forest owners require investment on their part. as they are a benefit to our society, they should be properly compensated. in conclusion, this report reflects my fears and hopes for the sector. it defines the lines of action for a global policy, but also for a specific policy for each region, taking into account the economic, social and environmental potential of the forestry sector. thank you, mr kindermann, for your work, which i think will receive broad support in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr heinz kindermann, on the excellent report he has presented. it is essential, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to take account of the importance of forests in the european union, whether in terms of the area they occupy in rural areas, their place in the rural economy as a sector of activity complementary to agriculture, or their role in land use planning, in particular to prevent and limit the consequences of natural phenomena such as floods or erosion. a forestry strategy for the european union must enable the implementation of sustainable forest management for several reasons. firstly, its contribution to climate change mitigation and a sustainable energy supply, with particular reference to biomass. in this connection, i welcome the agreement reached in the ecofin council which authorizes the application of a reduced vat rate for the production of heat and cold from wood. in practice, this reduction should encourage the development of this renewable energy production mode and new opportunities for the wood sector. secondly, forestry activities are also wealth and employment creators, whether it be in the... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. mr president, i have been greatly encouraged by the very engaged and highly interesting debate on this important issue, and i should like now to refer to some of the questions that have been raised during our discussion. on vertical integration in the commission, two main points must be noted. firstly, the commission has very recently set up a new unit in its directorate-general for agriculture and rural development with a much stronger focus on forestry. this unit is presently coordinating the preparatory work on the eu forest action plan and chairs the meetings of the interservice group on forestry. secondly, the interservice group on forestry, which was established in 2002 to facilitate cooperation and coordination of forestry-related work between relevant commission services, has proved to be an effective tool of coordination and is working very satisfactorily. its membership has increased and now comprises 11 commission services. it is very actively involved in the preparation of the action plan and will have a very important role in its implementation. regarding the legal basis, several legal studies have been carried out in the member states concerning the creation of a separate legal basis for forestry in the treaties. in our opinion, unless the position of the member states changes, the added value of further legal studies on this issue is questionable. regarding the concerns raised about the establishment of a european forest observatory, i believe that this should be discussed primarily among the member states, which have the main responsibility for our forestry policy. they can assess the added value of such an initiative in the light of the current structures and existing international institutions. i am aware of the importance of the problem of forest fires in the european union and the need to continue to prevent these situations from arising. i had the opportunity to see the horrible consequences of these forest fires last year during a visit to portugal. the current rural development regulation provides support to the member states for important forest fire prevention measures, such as fire breaks, water points and preventive sylviculture, as well as for the restoration of the forestry production potential in forests that have been damaged by fires. i should like to indicate that these actions will be continued during the period 2007–2013 under the new rural development regulation, and member states will, therefore, have the possibility to include forest fire prevention measures in their rural development programmes. the rural development measures will be complemented by the actions that will be undertaken under the life+ programme for the next financial period. in this respect, following an initiative of the european parliament, the commission will launch a study to examine the main causes of forest deterioration in europe, including forest fires, and the efficiency of the current measures, as well as possible future options to improve the situation. quite a few honourable members mentioned state-owned forests. it is clear that the main objective for rural development is to revitalise rural areas and not to finance public authorities’ activities. this is why the main target group of beneficiaries of the rural development measures related to forestry is the private sector, notably farmers, foresters and, under axis 3 in the rural development policy, the broader rural society. however, there are derogations concerning the exclusion of state-owned forests from support under the new rural development regulation in order to take into account the specific situations of certain regions and the characteristics of particular measures. finally, i shall make two comments on the content of the action plan. firstly, the action plan will be designed in accordance with the key principles of the european union forestry strategy. the main responsibility for forest policy lies with the member states, and actions at community level will continue to be based on the principle of subsidiarity. our intention is to concentrate community actions on those areas where there is a clear added value. the second point is that the action plan will also identify community instruments that can be used by the member states for the implementation of the proposed actions, for instance, the new rural development regulation, the life+ instrument or – as was also mentioned here – the seventh research framework programme. in this respect, the action plan will strengthen the overall visibility of forestry and increase the complementarity of different community actions in support of sustainable forest management. concerning the specific proposals in the report, the commission welcomes the recommendations contained in paragraphs 1, 4, 7, 11, 12, 14, 19, 20, 21, 24, 26 and 29. there are a number of recommendations, notably paragraphs 3, 5, 6, 8, 10, 15, 16, 17, 18, 22, 23 and 30, which are addressed also to the member states, and the commission will discuss these specific proposals with the member states when we elaborate further on the action plan. the commission has also taken good note of recommendation 9, and we will look into it: coordination is certainly an issue to be addressed. finally, there are a number of recommendations, such as 2, 13, 15, 25, 27, 28, 30 and 32, which will go beyond the key principle of the european forest strategy or may not be completely in line with the regulations already adopted. once again, i thank you for an extremely interesting and very good report and also for this engaged discussion, which has been very supportive. (applause)
the forest action plan will aim to consolidate the basic principles of the forestry strategy, namely the sustainable management of forests, their increasing multifunctional role, emphasising their economic, social, cultural, recreational and ecological dimensions and respecting the principle of subsidiarity. it is healthy to avoid the creation of a common forestry policy. however, it could have gone further by creating a special structure to coordinate national and community policies on the one hand and all the professionals in the forestry sector on the other. forests are also part of the biodiversity. the management of animal species is concomitant with the management of space. the forest has a great capacity for wildlife, and the species that naturally colonize it deserve to exist. the control of forest damage does not necessarily have to involve the wanton destruction of animal populations. a reasonable cooperation between hunters and foresters is essential to respect biodiversity, in order to strive towards a good forestry-forestry balance.
mr president, commissioner, like all our colleagues, i agree with the objectives of the new rural development fund and with the need to strengthen the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. i, in turn, welcome the work of the rapporteur and the contributions of the committee on agriculture and rural development. i would like to thank mrs attwooll in particular for helping to clarify a text which seems to me to be rather cumbersome and not always easily understandable at first sight by those who will have to implement it on the ground. the experience of the current leader programmes provides useful lessons on the dangers of overly precise and fussy instructions. i, for my part, wanted to stress the need to take account of territorial cohesion. for it to really exist, it is important to seek a balance between territories on the basis of the principle of fairness between all citizens of the union regardless of where they live. rural areas should not be defined by differentiating them from urban areas. on the contrary, the urban-rural relationship should be strengthened, in particular by developing public services, such as complementarity and accessibility of transport. the quality of life needed to maintain a working population in rural areas depends on cooperation and the joint implementation of the necessary financial resources. finally, in order to better assess and identify actions to strengthen territorial cohesion, it is important to develop new territorial indicators. in addition to gross domestic product, it would be necessary to take into account, for example, the employment rate, the decentralization index, the level of equipment in public services. we are waiting for proposals from the commission, and not just from you, madam commissioner.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate mrs mcguinness on her excellent work and her listening and open-mindedness. this new strategic approach to rural development proposes a concentration of resources on well-defined priority areas, which i believe will improve the effectiveness of actions in rural areas and the coherence between the different member states. it was also necessary to reaffirm the importance of rural development policy as the second pillar of the new common agricultural policy. however, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the financial perspective, i regret to note that the amounts proposed for the financing of rural development policy are sharply reduced, by some eur 20 billion, compared with the commission's proposal. the solution proposed by the council to deal with this substantial reduction is an optional additional modulation of up to 20% of the amounts from the first pillar to the second pillar, at the sole discretion of the member states. this proposal raises a number of concerns: firstly, this modulation is technically impossible for market expenditure. secondly, it would represent huge reductions in direct aid. finally, and most importantly, we cannot accept that this optional modulation is inconsistent with the eafrd regulation already adopted by the council after parliament's opinion and with the strategic guidelines on which we will be voting tomorrow. however, as is the case for the eafrd funds and the funds which are subject to compulsory modulation, national co-financing and compliance with the minimum expenditure per axis and integration into the national strategic plans must be required.
mr president, my group is of course in favour of any measure which allows members to make an informed decision. it is a question of transparency and accountability, even if for myself and my group there is little doubt as to the outcome of the final vote depending on the direction the debate takes. i think it is legitimate for the other members who are still hesitant to consult together to make an informed decision. i am therefore in favour of the suspension before the final vote.
mr president, in accordance with rule 171, it might be appropriate for the epp-pse couple to ask for an adjournment to reach an agreement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. article 150 (5) does not allow for any distinction. so there is no conflict between two possibilities, because there is only one. you have the right - and mrs gebhardt has the right - to amend an amendment which you have tabled. the information provided by the services is therefore correct. whatever you want to do - and it is not the majority that is right, but the law that is right, that is the decisive factor - we have the possibility of adopting an amendment originally tabled on our behalf. that is the fifth paragraph of article 150. it has nothing to do with what you're doing. on behalf of the green group, we accept your original amendment, and so it is back in the race and it must be voted on. that's the law as it's always been applied here. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, i am surprised that there are any hints of corridor discussions at a time when such an important directive is being voted on. i suggest you ask that this never happen again. (applause) i would like to thank
it is a new directive which our parliament voted in favour of this morning. a limited scope, the principle of the country of origin finally abolished, the right to work preserved: we have transformed the spirit and the letter of the draft submitted to us and i am happy about that. the only european institution that has been able to bring about this profound and inspiring change is our parliament. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to the question of the future of the european union. we have done a good job and the commission and the council must finally take account of the strong political signal we are sending today, which reflects our desire to complete the internal market while preserving our social model. we will make sure of that.
in writing. i voted in favour, at first reading, of the proposal for a directive on services in the internal market as rewritten by the european parliament on the basis of the compromise negotiated between the european people's party (epp) and the european socialist party (pse). i welcome the considerable work done by malcolm harbour who has followed the file for the european people's party (epp) with my friend jacques toubon. it was urgent to legislate so as not to leave it to the judges of the european court of justice to "say the law" on the 4th fundamental freedom of the union relating to services. the compromise provides a framework to support the competitiveness and development of service activities, which account for 70% of gdp and have a high potential for growth and job creation, while combating the risks of social dumping. jacques chirac, president of the french republic, was right to oppose the first text presented in january 2004 by the prodi commission and the european parliament has done its duty as a co-legislator. it is a victory for responsible democracy and a major step towards building a social market economy.
in writing. after more than a year of debate in committee and in the european public, the european parliament has today delivered its opinion on the services directive. in keeping with my convictions and the commitment i have made to the many citizens who have asked me about this directive, i voted initially in favour of its rejection with the entire french socialist delegation. the proposal was rejected (153 votes to 486). the french socialists had three basic demands: the exclusion of sgeis from the scope of the directive, explicit reference to the rule of the principle of the country of destination, reference to a framework directive on public services, and the introduction of a system of national rules on the free movement of goods. i therefore supported all the amendments aimed at reducing the scope of the text and clearly excluding public services and sectors vital to our social model, such as education, culture, health, etc. these amendments were also rejected. the epp-pse compromise does not meet my requirements for the preservation of our european social model, so in the final vote i voted against the text. i would also point out that the support for the amendment rejecting the text as amended was wider (215 votes) than the result of the first vote on withdrawal of the text suggested.
in writing. the text put to the vote was intended to make it possible to achieve a genuine internal market in services, while correcting a draft directive whose philosophy, based on competition in the social and tax legislation of the member states, would have dramatic consequences, by levelling down the various social models. the first of these objectives was achieved, but not the second. it is true that parliament has contributed to a major change in the line of the original text, by removing the principle of country of origin, by excluding gis from the scope of the directive or by protecting labour law. yet many shadows persist. the economic component of public services (sgeis) and social services remain under the direct threat of unacceptable social dumping. the legal vacuum created by the abolition of the ppo also presages a new situation in which the judges of the european court of justice will have the power to define social legislation, without any guarantee of the outcome or democratic control. for these important reasons, and although i welcome the progress made on this matter, i cannot endorse the final text submitted to parliament.
in writing. the services directive as adopted today remains unacceptable, because it is only a poor make-up of the original directive. the vast majority of craft activities remain subject to competition, whereas in my country this sector is the largest employer and creator of jobs. even if the overly explicit references to the country of origin principle have disappeared, there are still areas where this scandalous principle will apply, in whole or in part. the remaining ambiguities, shadow areas and inconsistencies will give the luxembourg court of justice the power to interpret the directive. however, it has always ruled in favour of those who considered that certain standards, especially social standards, constituted an intolerable barrier to competition. the commission will have a pretext to push downwards harmonisation in areas which are not within its competence, such as social protection and labour law. amended or not, i say no to the bolkestein directive, no to the aberrant principles underlying it, no to social and legal dumping, to free competition that is unfair and generates unemployment, no to the announced relocations, no to this eurocracy that refuses to take into account the opinion of the people, to continue to impose policies on them that they do not want.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amended proposal. i hope that the vote on the services directive will break the widespread misconception that the european commission decides everything. the fact that a text is proposed by the european commission does not mean that it will apply as it stands. for political arrangements dictated by electoral circumstances, the french were led to believe that this was the case. the so-called "bolkestein" directive is a symbol of popular manipulation. the european parliament has shown today that the power to legislate belongs to the representatives of the citizens. the european commission's proposal was not a good one. we have therefore amended it to strike a balance between the economic benefits of liberalising services on the one hand and the absolute need to avoid social dumping on the other.
in writing. the bottom line is that services now account for 70% of value added in the eu, but only 20% of intra-eu trade. so, because we cannot move most of the service companies, we move the minimum wage and to do that we have invented this bolkestein directive. its aim: to break down wages, to pull down social protections, to limit consumer rights, to dismantle public services. it's not even ultraliberalism anymore, it's full liberalism. the compromise between the epp and the pse, far from solving the problem of the principle of the country of origin, far from protecting public services from the ruthless law of the market, only places the commission and the court of justice in the position of supreme arbiter. given the ultra-liberal orientation of the commission and the court of justice, this is like putting foxes in charge of a chicken coop. accepting the services directive would be tantamount to signing the death warrant for the protection of employees and consumers in europe, and for public services. the people of europe do not need a directive which competes with the social and fiscal policy choices they have made democratically. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. since the lisbon european council in march 2000, when france was represented by jacques chirac and lionel jospin, and since then by the work of the internal market council and the berger and harbour parliamentary reports, adopted with the full support of the epp and the pse, the european liberals, conservatives and socialists have been the real initiators of the so-called bolkestein directive. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is still waiting for the council to decide on the matter. the surge of social self-defence by the dutch and french peoples who rejected the draft european constitution has fortunately put a stop to the infernal machine of wild liberalization of services. the left, which has taken its place on the carpet of liberal europeanism, is now drowning in pathetic confusion and internal contradictions. the amendment to the services directive which is being put before us merely changes the form without touching the substance. this directive is wrong, whether it is amended or not, because the internal market strategy that is proposed is inherently harmful. we therefore oppose the gebhardt report as a social and national 'no'.
in writing. the vote on the european constitution on 29 may 2005 was a real political and social trigger. the real plan b was actually the withdrawal of the bolkestein directive. indeed, without the negative referendum in france and the netherlands, the socialists, greens, ump, udf, all in favour of the european constitution, of increased competition in europe, would not have been so determined to denounce the principle of the country of origin and the attacks on market and non-market public services. this political and media staging is only intended to make people forget the idiocy of the socialist party which, with lionel jospin, helped to liberalise the post office, edf and france télécom. in this case we are throwing back the liberals and the archaeo- or post-marxists and internationalists, all responsible and all guilty. only the national structure we defend can protect us from bolkestein, mittal steel or hostile takeovers by multinationals or us pension funds. europe is torn apart over the services directive while waiting for the general agreement on trade in services at the wto to bring everyone together in the name of free competition and the 'king' market!
in writing. the services directive, the infamous bolkestein directive, is a machine for producing unemployment. the french referendum on the european constitution had given the french people a glimpse of the plight of its ultra-liberal and job-destroying philosophy. today, after some alterations to the facade, the interior remains unchanged. the abolition of the concept of country of origin does not mean that the concept of freedom to provide services has disappeared. the whole thing is a farce to force through what the liberals, the conservatives and the left, all equally pro-european, have been cleverly concocting with their respective national governments for almost two years. whether it is the bolkestein directive, the services directive or the gebhardt report, all these texts, which are the subject of polemics and compromises drawn in extremis by the political groups in the european parliament, are the same and must be rejected forcefully. we are firmly against this ultra-liberal and anti-national vision of the internal market in services, whose sole purpose, under the guise of 'free and undistorted competition', is to destroy our craft industry and our small french businesses.
in writing. i voted against this text which, despite some progress in relation to mr bolkestein's proposal, poses serious threats to our social model. the principle of the country of origin is only formally abandoned and not actually abandoned. the legal vacuum of the text makes it enter through the back door - (application in fact of the rome convention and the principle of proximity) - and leaves to the court of justice the arbitrations which the legislator should assume, with the principle of the host country. services of general economic interest remain within the scope of the directive, which threatens public services that are already badly undermined in europe. the votes confirmed an ultra-liberal orientation. the member states are deprived of the means to regulate certain professions and to control effectively the application of directives such as the one on the posting of workers, a fragile barrier to social dumping. the european union needs an alternative project that includes upward harmonization of social, environmental and consumer protection rules and excludes public services that require a framework directive protecting the environment.
in writing. for the last 50 years, the freedom to provide crossborder services has been one of the four fundamental freedoms of the common market. this was confirmed by the court of justice in recognising a ppo, a principle of the country of origin. for the blind, the general agreement on trade in services, signed in marrakesh in april 1994, established, at the global level, a "mode no. 4 of service provision, in the form of cross-border provision of services, that is, temporary immigration to the social dumping conditions of the country of origin. this is the old principle that european leaders are pretending to discover, while this ppo has been devastating european economies for decades. the french social model, with its pensions, health insurance, free schools, post offices, trains and hospitals, must not only be rejected if workers are to be paid the lowest possible wage in the most socially backward countries, but also the idea of a market without customs protection, which is the real cause of social dumping, of which the ppo rule is only a symptom. the starting point of the social cancer, the first mad cell, is the idea of the single market without the tariff locks. the country of origin rule is just a metastasis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague mairead mcguiness on the proposal for a council decision on the strategic guidelines for rural development for the period 2007-2013. in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy, rural development will become a key issue for 90% of the territory of the european union and 50% of its population. these guidelines are, for the most part, good and i am pleased that the european parliament is gradually recognising mountain areas as a privileged area for intervention. the commission will be very vigilant about the means, especially financial, that will be used. i regret that there is no greater emphasis on the need to ensure that rural areas have a level playing field in the current economic and social competition, in particular through a policy of major infrastructure works such as motorways, high-speed rail, air and port access, and the development of new information and communication technologies. the european union must guarantee equal opportunities for citizens and businesses wherever they are in europe.
in writing. can we have rural development without rural people? are there villages and landscapes in the wine-growing south, if our vineyards are torn down, if our cooperative and private cellars are closed, and if the mas of the vine growers are replaced by housing estates? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. rural development in the second pillar is just a smokescreen. it is the elegant name for the disappearance of our agricultural products, for the benefit of producers in brazil, australia or the south pacific, with, as a consolation prize, a modest function of landscapers for the survivors of the peasant people of france and europe. rural development is the same hypocritical concept as "multifunctional agriculture". it is a painkiller, a palliative care applied to the women and men of the countryside who are being knowingly and ignobly sacrificed to the great "planetary deal". in the south pacific, agriculture, in europe, the illusion of the service market. europe has foolishly sold out its peasants and is inventing a farcical policy of 'rural development' in the human and economic desert that brussels has created in our countryside.
in writing. the eu has a unique responsibility and opportunity in this area. only this can meet the two conditions for the establishment of these new mechanisms: critical size and political will. the text before us does not live up to this expectation. the resolution does indeed provide support in principle for new sources of development finance by insisting that these funds should be in addition to traditional public aid and not replace it. but this parliament's position is very timid. support is lip service and the central concept in this debate, a "world tax" for development, is silenced. the various projects currently on the table (taxation of financial transactions, co2 emissions, arms sales, etc.) are not mentioned. no reference is made to the "global public goods", which these mechanisms should finance as a priority. because it is a first step in the right direction, i shall vote for this motion for a resolution. but i want to see it as an encouragement to move faster and further towards the practical implementation of these new tools at european level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the very interesting report on the implementation of a forestry strategy for the european union prepared by my colleague heinz kindermann. at present, the issue of forests and wood in the process of creating wealth and social progress, while respecting our environment, is not sufficiently taken into account in european public policies. it is time for the european union to give significant support to projects based on the forestry sector at the relevant site level. the link between a forestry strategy and rural development must be established and i regret that mountain areas have not been given special attention in this respect. similarly, in the context of the lisbon strategy, it is important that the union focuses more on supporting research programmes related to the recovery of wood, particularly in the construction and energy sectors. finally, a study should be carried out on the transport of wood, which is a heavy product, in order to bring together forest areas, consumption areas and road, rail and sea transport infrastructures.
in writing. it is time for a forestry strategy. especially in a france which had succeeded in creating one of the most beautiful forests in europe, in the landes, in the 21st century, and which has since failed to manage its forest commercially. we must not forget that the european union is a major player in the world economy, and that it is the world's largest exporter of wood and paper. it is necessary to have the will to create a large timber industry in europe and in france in particular. this also implies smart taxation, favourable investment, trained and unpenalised professionals, and a long-term political vision.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i consider the report which parliament is debating today, drawn up by mr hamon and discussed by the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, to be very timely, given that the international monetary fund is in the midst of a debate on the strategic review based on the document presented by its executive director. the commission does not have a direct and formal presence, as you know, in the international monetary fund, nor does the european union; it is the member states. but we must be aware that the member states represented in the european union and in this house represent more than 30% of the shareholding of the international monetary fund. i therefore find this contribution to the debate on how to ensure greater economic and financial stability in the global economy, including in this concept of stability the development of the least developed countries and the eradication of poverty, extremely useful. and to achieve these objectives, we must certainly have the help of institutions with the capacity to act on a global scale, such as the international monetary fund. the first thing that strikes you when you look at the role of the imf in the global economy at the beginning of the 21st century is the relevance and relevance of the objectives that were assigned to it when it was created in 1944. while the objectives of promoting international monetary stability - facilitating the expansion of international trade, promoting exchange rate stability and reducing balance of payments imbalances - remain fully in place, the economic context in which the fund operates today is radically different from that of sixty years ago. this is of course recognised by the fund in its strategic review when it declares the centrality of the challenge of globalisation in order for the institution to be able to fulfil the tasks entrusted to it. the new approach of the fund is therefore to consider its essential tasks of monitoring and lending through the prism of globalisation. to do so, the fund takes into account both risks and opportunities. for example, in its strategy paper it recognises that the free movement of capital allows for a more efficient allocation of resources, but at the same time it also points out that it produces greater volatility and risk of extreme reactions of markets in the event of a crisis; it also notes the push of emerging economies, which are helping to a large extent the high growth rates in the world economy, but also that the power of these emerging economies is creating greater difficulties for the poorest countries to get on the train of global exchanges and global growth. the commission shares the fund's view of globalisation in its strategy paper; we convey our views to the international monetary fund in the fluid and frequent contacts we maintain with the institution's managers. in particular, as you know, we collaborate with the monetary fund in defining our policies and taking our decisions for the macrofinancial assistance which the european community gives to the countries of the western balkans or to some of the states which were part of the former soviet union. macro-financial assistance, based on resources from the community budget, is always subject to a number of conditions which are complementary to the assistance provided by the fund in those countries. in the field of development aid and poverty eradication, the imf, together with the world bank and the european union, are undoubtedly the main global actors and here too there is close and fruitful cooperation between the different institutions. all these aspects are in one way or another covered in the report we are debating today and the commission can perfectly well express its agreement with the positions taken by the rapporteur and supported by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the report also stresses the need to adjust the distribution of quotas and votes in the governance structures of the fund, in order to reflect more evenly the relative weight of the different economies of the member countries, which will lead to giving a greater voice to the least developed countries and, in particular, to african countries, whose current share of representation and capital in the fund means that they are very poorly represented. as the imf notes in its documents, this reform of quota and voting distribution is the responsibility of the countries with shares and requires a strong political will to understand that increasing the quota of some at the expense of others can be beneficial to all in the medium and long term, because it will enable the fund to better fulfil its functions and the objectives it has been entrusted with. a final point i would like to make, mr president, is the external representation of the euro area and the european union in economic and monetary matters. i am grateful to the rapporteur and all the honourable members for including this point in the report we are debating today, although i do recognise - as i think i had occasion to say in this very house last year - that the commission would prefer a clearer and more direct formulation of the objective of a more adequate external representation of the euro area and the european union as a whole, such as that proposed in amendment no 5 tabled by mr purvis. the commission has started, together with the eurogroup presidency, a reflection on how to move towards this more effective external representation of the euro area and, in time, of the european union. progressively, with determination and realism, we will try to outline a consistent path that will allow us to make progress towards better coordination between the members of the euro area when they take their stand in the international financial institutions. in the short term, the aim is to identify points in the programmes of these institutions where a coordinated position of the member states can be achieved, for example in the area of budgetary surveillance. in the long term, the objective remains to achieve a single euro area constituency in the fund, enabling it to have an influence equivalent to the economic weight of monetary union. this will undoubtedly require strong political support from the member states. the commission believes that parliament can and must make a significant contribution to this endeavour by making its views as clear as possible. i would like to conclude, mr president, by expressing the commission's readiness to examine the way in which parliament can participate in shaping the positions which representatives of the euro area or the european union are called upon to express in the international financial institutions and bodies. the question certainly needs to be studied, and it is not easy to find a way of doing so, but i can assure all honourable members that the commission and i are fully prepared to look into this matter further when they consider it appropriate.
the rapporteur. mr president, i thank commissioner almunia and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the positive reception they have given to my report. i would like to stress one fact which is important enough to be mentioned: the unanimous vote in favour of this report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i would also like to welcome the work of the committee on development and the committee on international trade, and in particular their rapporteurs, mr wijkman and mr bourlanges, who have contributed a great deal to enriching this report, which comes at a time when the international monetary fund is reflecting on its strategy and how to assess the evolution of its mission, the impact of its policies and the way it operates. i would like to return to the spirit in which the fictitious rapporteurs and the whole committee worked, namely to ensure that our parliament's report makes a useful contribution to the strategic review of the international monetary fund while taking into account the major challenges facing the fund: first the question of its governance, then the question of its economic doctrine and the impact of its choices on the millennium development goals and finally, more generally, the way in which, today, through its role of monitoring and crisis prevention, it remains the guarantor of global macroeconomic and financial stability. on the question of governance, let me remind you that the member states are now divided into nine constituencies, which means that today the european union, if one can speak of european union in this context, has no representation for the whole union. the european union therefore expresses itself through nine constituencies. the report also stresses the lack of coordination between the member states within the international monetary fund. that is why this report is in favour of better coordination of the european chairs and of a step-by-step approach to representation for the whole of the european union in the international monetary fund, with the single chair as a prospect, of course, and the single chair for the euro area in the meantime. today the report does not specifically mention the question of the single chair but sets as an objective the unity of the european union's vote and representation in the international monetary fund, which seems to me to be a very fundamental step. why is it essential? because that would give the european union the blocking minority it does not have today, namely 15% of the voting rights in the international monetary fund. the united states is currently the only country with this blocking minority, and we know the impact it can have on the major policy and strategic choices the international monetary fund has made. there is a key element here that is very important. i would add that the evolution of the representation of the european union may also help to unblock part of the question of the distribution of voting rights and therefore the weight of emerging and developing countries in the international monetary fund's board of directors. we believe that the representation of the emerging countries should be more proportionate to their economic weight. it is also necessary that the countries with the largest populations but the weakest economies, the developing countries, should have much greater voting rights than they do today, for the simple reason that they are the 'beneficiaries' of the policies of the international monetary fund. for this reason, this report is in favour of an increase in the allocation of basic voting rights: this is at least one of the options to be explored in the immediate future. the second point we wish to stress is the question of the legitimacy of the international monetary fund's interventions, especially as the scope of these interventions is becoming ever wider. we are in favour of improving the transparency of the international monetary fund and its operation. i am thinking in particular of the recruitment of experts and the need to diversify their profiles so that they can adapt their recommendations more easily to the diversity of situations encountered. the last point, which is not the least difficult, concerns the way in which structural adjustment policies and the recommendations of the international monetary fund for many years have been assessed. the fund is now being heavily criticised for the implementation of a number of its recommendations, for its macroeconomic doctrine and for its somewhat too rigid application of the washington consensus. this is why we asked the commission to be more flexible and to look at the best way of ensuring that local authorities and the countries concerned take ownership of poverty reduction strategies. we think this is a very important step. we have also pointed out that a number of fund interventions have not been infallible in terms of the results achieved, the social costs of structural adjustment plans, or the contagion of crises, or even their recurrence. these are the points we insist on in order to encourage the fund to change a number of its choices in the context of its strategic review. i would add, and i would like to stress this point, that we should not find ourselves in the future, in terms of global governance, faced with a form of implicit hierarchy of standards which would like the fund's recommendations to rise to the top on the pretext that they no longer only concern macroeconomic stability and growth policies, but also concern labour market policies, the financing of social programmes, education and health. the hierarchy of standards should not therefore place the fund's recommendations at the top of all international organizations, to the point of sometimes creating strong contradictions between the fund's recommendations and those of the major international conventions of the ilo or the world health organization. in conclusion, we would like the european parliament to feel more concerned, particularly in view of the prospect of a single representation of the european union, with the responsibility of the european union's directors in the international monetary fund. we want the fund to have regular relations with the european parliament, just as it has regular relations with the american congress, and to be accountable and responsible for its actions to the assembly of the peoples of europe.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, the committee on international trade has delivered an opinion which is very close to the excellent report by our colleague, mr hamon, and i think there are indeed very similar views, very similar concerns. we have three main concerns. firstly, like the rapporteur, we want to see better coordination of all development policies. we are pointing to a contradiction: the imf is part of a whole, it has a particular responsibility, but at the same time it is much more than part of a whole, because as a lender of last resort it enjoys, as mr hamon has just mentioned, a kind of de facto preeminence which is not without problems, which leads to the search for better coordination with other international organizations, in particular the wto, the ilo and the world health organization. we must think about these forms of coordination. secondly, we are concerned about the rebalancing of powers. we do not want to give in to a few excessive demographic dizzinesses that would cut us off from the world economic reality but we believe that at the present stage the emerging economies are not sufficiently represented and that a rebalancing of powers is needed in favour of these same economies. finally, we share the rapporteur's concern that europe should speak with one voice and act in concert. it is the height of desolation to see that europe, which has almost twice as many votes in its member states as the united states, has so little in the organization. can we now move on to the single chair? perhaps not, but we must move towards informal forms of action comparable to shareholder pacts, starting with the euro area and setting ourselves the objective in the second stage of making the whole of the european union speak with one voice. these are our concerns, and i do not think they contradict those of mr hamon.
author. mr president, it is crucial to recall here the importance of the union's engagement in the south caucasus region, still undermined by frozen conflicts and yet highly strategic and resolutely european. we know that mrs ferrero-waldner is currently on an official visit to the region, but i would like to make an appeal to the members of parliament and to the people of the region to take responsibility. while the european union is negotiating action plans with each country to promote regional stability, armenia and azerbaijan have entered a fragile but hopeful phase of peace negotiations on the nagorno-karabakh conflict. president aliev and president kocharyan met last sunday in rambouillet under the auspices of the osce minsk group. the success of this process is the priority because it can, by ricochet, lead to a resolution of the other conflicts in the region. it is therefore an essential precondition for the overall stabilisation of the region. in this context, ladies and gentlemen, do you feel in your heart and soul that it is really time to add fuel to the fire by deleting, as the amendments suggest, paragraphs which allow a balanced approach to the joint resolution which we all negotiated together the day before yesterday? we condemned the destruction of the julfa cemetery in the tannock report last january and we continue to condemn it. but we cannot ignore, ladies and gentlemen, the overall context of the frozen conflict between armenia and azerbaijan, which has caused thousands of deaths and refugees. the wounds are still open. can we also ignore the fact that 20% of azerbaijani territory is considered by armenia as a buffer zone for nagorno-karabakh and that many elements of the cultural and religious heritage of these occupied territories have also suffered major destruction? it's high time we stopped this dangerous escalation. to deny the shared responsibility of the parties to a conflict and to mention the destruction on one side alone would be irresponsible and would even be contrary to our commitment to support our armenian and azerbaijani friends in their desire to resolve their differences. finally, this resolution comes at a time of heightened sensitivity between the muslim world and the western world. fragile shortcuts could reduce these events to a simple clash between the christian and muslim worlds. i therefore solemnly ask you not to give an argument to the extremists of all stripes by voting a resolution which, if reshaped according to certain proposals, would be unfairly partisan. it is a matter of personal conscience, but it is also the credibility of the european parliament and, more broadly, the action of the european union in the region that is at stake.
on behalf of the pse group. the city of julfa in azerbaijan is home to a significant armenian necropolis, which is architecturally unique. this necropolis bears witness to the history of this region inhabited until the first quarter of the 20th century by more than 80% of armenians. the soviet era left the site abandoned, and beginning in 1998, local authorities began demolishing it. unesco was obviously very concerned at the time, and the bulldozers were temporarily stopped. the organization is in contact with the relevant authorities to protect this heritage, as the damage caused to this memorial site was very significant. consistent evidence and recent testimony tend to support the idea that the destruction resumed in december 2005. it is therefore appropriate to ask azerbaijan to allow a mission to visit the site as soon as possible in order to assess the measures to be taken now and in the medium term to preserve this historical site, but more importantly, the memory and culture which constitute the heritage of a people.
author. mr president, the guantanamo detainees are in a situation of lawlessness and legal vacuum due to the absence of a charge for the past four years. we are alarmed by the continuing allegations of ill-treatment. thus, hunger strikers whose only means of protesting against their complete lack of access to justice is to be deprived of food would be tied to chairs for hours to be force-fed until they vomit blood. i would remind you that the un special rapporteur on torture, manfred novak, has said that if this is true, it would be inhuman, cruel and degrading treatment. we are asking that the un and ngos be allowed access to the guantanamo detention centre and its detainees. guantanamo should be closed immediately and the detainees should be heard by an independent tribunal. finally, the united states must at least allow for an impartial investigation into allegations of torture.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i do not quite understand your reaction, especially when we take into account the applause, which is not customary, from all the seats of this house following what mr schultz, the president of the great party of the european socialists, said. in fact, we are asking you to negotiate to limit the duration of the commission and council's interventions on the lisbon strategy. they've explained it to us three times already, we know it. so they can each limit themselves to 15 minutes to present their views on the lisbon strategy, leaving us time for a debate. don't take people for fools! we know the problems of the lisbon strategy: mr barroso has already raised them three times in this house and i would be surprised if he came up with something new this time. a quarter of an hour of speaking time, therefore, for the institutions and the rest for parliament, seems to me to be legitimate.
mr president, i should like to inform you that for several years now lg-philips has been closing jobs in the dreux constituency, but also in aachen, the netherlands and hungary. the pattern is classic. however, it should also be noted that the company was set up in 2001 so that the problems encountered on the market for cathode-ray displays would not be a handicap for the philips holding company. this is extremely serious because it allows our large companies to evade their economic, social and industrial responsibilities. promises were made to the workers of these three factories, but to date no facts have confirmed these promises. in addition, this report recalls the events of hp in isère and also recalls that the large groups are doing as they please and are gradually dismantling europe's industrial policy.
mr president, the chikungunya epidemic currently affecting réunion is placing this outermost region of the european union in a state of extremely worrying health and economic crisis, and the scale of the long-term consequences is very difficult to assess. the mosquito-borne virus has already infected 200,000 of the island's 760,000 inhabitants and is believed to have directly caused the deaths of five people. the disease, whose intensity was unknown until the beginning of this year, is now directly threatening some of the most vulnerable groups, including the elderly, young children, pregnant women and patients with pre-existing conditions. as the european union is concerned with fighting another health crisis, and quite legitimately, the one that is hitting the agricultural sector, but which only potentially threatens the population, i would be infinitely grateful to you, mr president, if you would express your solidarity and that of the european parliament, as of today, with citizens of the union who live in real fear of chikungunya. i thank you in advance on behalf of all the people of réunion.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the questions put by president záborská and the other honourable members require a detailed answer: it is right and proper for me to give concrete answers. the various questions raised 16 different points, with very specific questions to which i shall try to give an answer. more generally, i think it is unthinkable that a sporting event, which should in principle be a celebration of positive values, could be used to tolerate or encourage forced prostitution. i've heard a very sad reference to this, that football and sex go together, as if forced prostitution is the inevitable consequence of a major sporting event. but that would be a denial of the healthiest values of the sport. it is therefore necessary to start with legislation, specifically with the relevant european legislation adopted in this regard, which provides for the criminalisation of those who contribute to the coercion of persons, women and children in particular, but it must be said, also men, into prostitution. as you know, there is a european framework decision, and currently, as far as germany is concerned, a national law has entered into force in 2005, which is a fully applicable law. we will also prepare a report to the council and parliament by the end of april on the application of the framework decision on trafficking in human beings and criminal penalties to ensure that all member states have adopted national laws transposing this framework decision before the world cup football championship. among the most important rules is one which requires member states to prosecute those responsible in the country of origin and not in the country where they committed the crime. the framework decision provides for this in order to ensure the effective conduct of a trial and the imposition of criminal sanctions. after the report has been submitted by the end of april, the council, and if parliament deems it appropriate, will be able to discuss in depth the subject of further measures which could be taken at european level, at european legislative level. in my opinion, in connection with these measures, we should think, even without giving a definitive answer today, about the punishability of those who, as customers, take advantage of the services of people, knowing that they have been victims of coercion and even in some cases of a real trafficking that has reduced them to slavery. of course, the question of the legality of prostitution is dealt with in very different ways in the member states, but in my view, if the client is aware that the person with whom he is dealing is a victim of trafficking, coercion or coercion, then further consideration must be given, including from the point of view of possible criminal sanctions. the role of europol and eurojust must obviously be strengthened in this context. one of the priority topics i raised when i met the president of eurojust and the director of europol was precisely that of strengthening the capacity of europol and eurojust to implement the action plan against trafficking in human beings which we presented, as this parliament recalls, at the end of last year. europol can play a very important role in coordinating action at european level against these heinous forms of crime. we have already done this successfully to tackle paedophilia, with europol's action dismantling a network of paedophiles in 13 european countries. this is another path to be pursued. then there's the specific issue of the world cup in germany: i had promised this parliament, when the subject was first discussed, that i would formally involve the german federal ministry of the interior. i have of course done so, and minister schäuble, to whom i have written, replied a few days ago and formally assured me that the federal law which has come into force will not only be strictly enforced, but that it will also follow up specifically on prevention initiatives on the ground in all the cities in germany concerned by the holding of football matches. i can therefore say with confidence that the german federal government, through its minister of the interior, is not only assuring full cooperation but is also urging the council of ministers of the interior to consider the matter in april in order to develop an operational strategy, in this case not legislative but operational prevention on the ground, in order to prevent the sporting event from being used to transfer a huge number of victims of this odious trafficking. i should like to make two comments on the concrete measures which i, as the commission's representative, intend to put forward at the april summit of the council of ministers of the interior. first of all, as regards the issue of visas, i would like to confirm very clearly to mr groener in particular, but also to those who wrote to me after the seminar on 8 march, that i never intended, wanted or thought of introducing visas for women. visas are not issued for specific categories of persons, they are issued for specific countries and for specific nationalities. i had announced my intention to assess whether certain third countries, considered to be at risk, are still visa-free and therefore whether it would be appropriate to extend the visa period temporarily for a country of origin of a likely traffic; i'm sorry if i was misunderstood at the march 8th seminar. i've been digging into this, and i can even give you the answer. there are no third countries outside the european union from which, according to police data, visa-free flows of human trafficking originate. it will not therefore be necessary to introduce changes to the current visa regime simply because all the so-called third countries at risk - according to statistics - are already covered by visas. in any case, it would never have been a visa for women, it would only have provided for greater control over certain countries. the problem is not there, but it is clear that there is a need - and i will make a proposal to the council to that effect - for greater control by the consulates over the actual purposes of visitor groups' trips, since it is clear that sex traffickers give or cause to be given false reasons. so control is the responsibility of the borders and the consulates - this requires cooperation between all the member states of the european union - and there will have to be a reinforced control of the veracity of the stated objectives. as you know, it is often claimed as a pure and simple tourist purpose which is not true. a thorough check is necessary. it is also clear that, as some of you have suggested, concrete measures to support the victims are indispensable. i am personally in favour of the idea of promoting dedicated telephone lines, that is, telephone lines which can, through a simultaneous translation service, offer immediate help in as many foreign languages as possible. obviously this applies both to the period of the football world cup and the period afterwards: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. these immediate and operational support measures can be considered in the european action plan itself, thanks to the projects and the funds that europe can allocate to concrete proposals of this kind. another measure which i think is necessary is a comparative study of all the laws of the member states relating to prostitution and the relationship between prostitution, where it is permitted, and human trafficking for sexual purposes. the link between the increase in demand and the incentive for traffickers to engage in this despicable activity is clear. there is a study that this parliament has sponsored, namely a study on transnational crime. i would like to propose that a comparative study be carried out to get a clearer picture of the link between the increase in demand and the increase in traffic. of course, within the framework of the daphne programmes, the european union will be able to co-finance initiatives in this field in order to raise public awareness of the need to reduce the demand for prostitution, since reducing the demand for prostitution limits or helps to limit the trafficking of people for sexual purposes. another proposal that can be made is for closer contact with local governments, with regional governments, with city governments. it is clear that such phenomena are widespread in the territory and, as you know, there is a european network for crime prevention activities. we will see whether this european network or other formulas can make it possible to involve local governments more in prevention on the one hand and in helping victims of trafficking on the other. in addition, the rules for assistance to victims, which are the last mentioned, are applied, and they guarantee a status to women victims and to those who are generally victims of trafficking in human beings or forced prostitution. in this european legislation there is in particular the european directive of 2004 which guarantees a residence permit, as someone has recently urged, and you know that the member states can transpose the european directive by 6 august this year: fortunately some member states have already done so, and to give some encouragement to those member states which have not done so by spring, that is, well before august, i will convene a technical meeting with representatives of all the member states to find out what problems have prevented the national transposition of that directive so far and to formally ask, before the deadline expires, that all the member states by august guarantee the victims of sexual exploitation and human trafficking the preferential status that european legislation has sought. other important issues remain, such as the need for effective statistical data on the phenomenon. as i have already said, we intend to promote a reflection in a few weeks' time by means of a special publication and we will present a european communication on a type of european statistical data relating to crime, with particular reference to this type of crime, in order to have at least a certainty of reliable statistical data on the phenomenon, its victims, the complaints lodged and the sanctions imposed. it is obviously not an initiative dedicated solely to the world cup in germany, but a necessary medium-term initiative. madam president, i am going to close and i apologize for the length, but there were 16 different points and i would not like anyone to say that i did not give any answers. we will promote a programme to raise awareness of the phenomenon at european level. i am personally in favour of the idea of a european day against trafficking in human beings and against forced prostitution, and i intend to promote in the coming weeks a technical seminar, open to all, of course, to exchange best practices in preventing this phenomenon. thank you, sir.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it took the civilized world millennia to eradicate the slave trade, the inhuman conditions of work, the subjugation of women, not to mention the death penalty, but these battles are still not over. the century that has just begun must be the century in which the new form of slavery, forced prostitution, which kills thousands of women and children every year, will be banished from our societies. that is the message of the oral questions tabled today by our committee on women's rights. the european parliament - i am pleased to say - is known throughout europe and beyond as a tireless defender of the universal values of the human person and human dignity. by adopting the christa prets report by an overwhelming majority on 16 january, we have already sent a very strong signal which you, commissioner frattini, were very welcome to hear, and your remarks just now have confirmed this if need be. today our oral questions are part of the continuation of our vote in january and of our action on 8 march, and they mark our indignation once again. we are outraged that the forthcoming football world cup is being prepared by tolerating not only the construction but also the commercial promotion of a place that some even dare to boast of being the world's largest brothel. it is intolerable, and you have said it very well, mr frattini, that international sports competitions have thus become the calling-chambers of forced and organized prostitution. commissioner, our protests, however strong, are not enough, and you have understood that. we thank you for your answer to our questions, which were largely answered. with the world cup in germany so close at hand, there is urgency. all the initiatives you have just mentioned are excellent, but i would draw your attention to the fact that they must be operational in time. that's why we need to keep a close eye on it. the european parliament, for its part, will contribute to this with all its strength.
madam president, in many countries thousands of women are exploited, forced into prostitution, and those who are subjected to this forced prostitution are mostly young and in precarious situations. the most vulnerable are supervised by pimps, who monitor them, subject them to physical, financial, moral sanctions; death threats are often made. you might wonder why they don't turn in their pimps. sometimes they're held by love, but more often by fear. these women, helpless, take on this nightmare because they have no choice. for some, there is an almost amiable phase of prostitution. yet, we are seeing more and more of these new kinds of slaves walking our streets, without really seeing them. if the girl does not work hard enough, she suffers a flood of abuse. the pimp is putting constant pressure on her to get her to do the job. if prostitution is legal, the pimp defends it, connects her with the owners of the establishments, and forces her to conform to the demands of her community. he uses seduction, threats and violence to achieve his ends. the victim is forced to hand over his winnings directly or through an intermediary. as victims of violence, these young women are forced to pay large debts to cover the cost of their travel and their identity documents. in the underground, often without their money, they have no prospect of improving their situation. when they resist the pressure of traffickers, they, their children, or their families are put in danger. this situation is hopeless and the nature of the environment in which they work often leads them to fall into drug addiction. no one can wash their hands of such a tragedy. we have a duty to fight this disgrace, as others have fought against slavery, against racism, against arbitrary imprisonment. this debate concerns all of us in all european countries.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mr hutchinson, and the committee on regional development for this excellent report, which deals with a sensitive subject which has been the subject of extensive debate in the various member states in recent months. without overlooking the sensitivity of the subject, i would like to recall that the right of establishment anywhere in the community is part of the fundamental freedoms and a cornerstone of the single market. it is harmful to encourage or prohibit investment decisions. specialization and changes in the location of economic activity are part of economic growth and are necessary if we want growth and more and better jobs. the commission is well aware, however, that the relocation of businesses, as mr hutchinson has pointed out, and the loss of jobs within the union are very worrying phenomena. we cannot interfere with the decisions of companies or the business of entrepreneurs, but we are determined to deal with the social consequences of these decisions. the structural funds, both in the current and the next programming period, are designed to create jobs, growth and further economic progress. they are flexible and perfectly capable of mitigating and reducing the difficulties caused to regions and their citizens by the decision of an undertaking to close down or to relocate part or all of its economic activity to another state or outside the european union. both the current and future regulations, which have not yet been finalised, provide that any undertaking financed by the european union's structural funds that relocates within five years of receiving the grant must repay this grant. this rule will put an end to the practice of 'subsidy hopping'. in conclusion, i would like to assure you that the commission will carefully consider any specific proposal which parliament might wish to put forward in the context of the discussions on future regulations.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to see that after the long hours of work on mr hutchinson's report, we have, as my two colleagues have just said, if not absolute consensus, at least convergence on most of the elements. i think that we must of course take into account what motivated alain hutchinson, namely the shock of relocation for the employees concerned, for the region concerned. the relocation of large numbers of workers is a real trauma, both for the employees and for the region. as the rapporteur has also said, it is not acceptable for certain company managers to use blackmail. but we must recognize that in an open economy, within our own regions - because relocations sometimes occur within our own country - there are differences in wages, differences in technical competitiveness which mean that a company may actually be forced to move some of its production tools, whether it is the production of goods or services. finally, let us not forget that with the single european act of 1986 we must facilitate the free movement of goods, persons and services within our states. before we talk about offshoring, the basic question is: if a company that has to face competition and provide a service to its customers does not offshore, what is it doing? i'm not talking about the crooks. i am talking about a number of companies that have faced this choice. the fact is that a number of them have been very successful in setting up and developing their r & d department, in creating new markets and in successfully carrying out a partial relocation operation. so in conclusion i would like to stress that it is important that our european union, as mrs krehl has said, does not use its funds to support relocations in an abusive way, but that we must instead use the funds that are available to support workers and the regions that are in difficulty on this occasion.
mr president, as the elected representative of the french region of nord-pas de calais, whose industries, particularly textiles, are losing thousands of jobs every year, i naturally support the proposal to require the reimbursement of european aid granted to companies relocating their factories. this is a sensible economic and social proposal that the national front made in the 2004 regional elections with regard to subsidies paid by the regional councils. this is a necessary measure, but it is no more sufficient than the creation of a european globalisation adjustment fund on 1 march. the european commission is only repairing the damage done by its ultra-liberal hand with one hand, which appears to be social. the relocations are not inevitable but the consequence of the commercial ideology of the european union which, by destroying economic frontiers, puts our companies in competition with groups whose labour costs are extremely low. and this social dumping is being carried out for the benefit of countries outside europe, but also within europe itself. many european directives, for example, actually encourage relocations between member states and put downward pressure on social legislation. to preserve our jobs and our way of life, we must re-establish our trade frontiers, introduce a social vat on imported products. we must choose between the re-establishment of a policy of national and european protection and your policy of liberal fundamentalism, which leads to widespread social regression.
mr president, under pressure from the french and dutch voters who voted against the constitution, parliament is finally taking up the matter of relocations. i can only approve the measures proposed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment. i would regret it if we were to stop at homeopathic doses where a horse's medicine is needed! but the relative timidity of the report illustrates the major contradiction that runs through the union's economic policy: competition can never be both totally free and undistorted. companies use blackmail to force employees to accept social conditions below the laws of their country. this social blackmail is doubled by a tax blackmail. the threat of relocation is systematically used to obtain tax relief. effective action to combat relocations requires rapid and upward harmonisation of taxation and social legislation at european level. the independence of the european central bank, which always favours pension interests over labour interests, must also be brought to an end.
mr president, the phenomenon of relocations is of concern to the european union as a whole, but in particular to the former member states. we know the reasons for this, as the honourable members have said: globalisation of the economy, distortions of competition in social and fiscal terms, etc. the report is therefore very welcome, and i for my part welcome the work of our rapporteur and the improvements made by the committee on regional development. we now have a balanced text. it can make a real contribution to the fight against relocations and to preventing the negative effects that may result from them. i would like to stress one particular point, and we are obviously dealing here with regional development: the report stresses the importance of the proper use of the structural funds to avoid the risk of relocations in the short, medium and long term. this mainly concerns aid granted directly to the economic sectors to be supported, but it is known that a key factor in the risk of relocation is the isolation and poor accessibility of production units. it is therefore important that the new generation of structural funds allocated to competitiveness and employment should include in its priorities the improvement of accessibility in regions suffering from significant handicaps in this respect. this would be the best guarantee of the sustainability of economic activities in these regions. i hope that the commission will not only pay attention to the requests and recommendations contained in the report, but also welcome this particular request, which will certainly be reflected in the new regional development programmes.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the world water forums are a unique opportunity to bring together all the global water actors, be they un agencies, development banks, states, professional organisations, ngos or local authorities. these meetings help to define a more just and supportive global water policy and to ensure respect for the right to water as an essential element of human dignity. the organisers chose to orient the discussions in mexico city by raising the theme 'local actions for a global challenge': this is the main theme of this forum. the aim is to establish local authorities as central actors in water management. to achieve this, developing countries must be encouraged to delegate budgetary resources and the management of water policy to their local authorities. water policy should always be defined on the basis of the specific features of the land, as close as possible to the needs of the users. the resolution calls on the commission to recognise and make greater use of the tremendous human and financial expertise of european local authorities. with their successful experience and technical skills, the northern cities are eager to help their developing counterparts. in order to promote such decentralized city-to-city cooperation, the commission is asked to encourage and give priority to financing projects submitted by northern cities. in particular, for the allocation of the european water fund, the commission could limit eligibility for such funding to operators best able to help the communities of the south. the results of the first call for proposals of the acp-eu water fund show that only 3% of the projects selected are projects submitted by local authorities. this is far from sufficient in view of the added value they bring to this area.
mr president, one billion two hundred million people do not have access to clean water, so that 15 people die every minute in the world, half of them children. so it is a real race against the clock that we are engaged in. the world forum must therefore put forward proposals of three kinds. the legal question first. water is a common good of mankind and access to water is a fundamental human right. this right must be enshrined in an international treaty. the next issue is the means: halving the proportion of the population without access to water by 2015 is an ambitious goal. we just have to find another $100 billion a year. this requires the mobilisation of all resources: increased official development assistance (oda), increased resources under the 10th edf, support for innovative public/private partnerships or debt-for-investment swaps. the management issue, finally. water policies must be defined through a participatory, democratic approach involving users, civil society and the role of women and be managed at local level, with the establishment of tariff policies that guarantee access to water for the poorest at affordable prices. i hope that the commission will defend such guidelines at the world forum in mexico city.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank the members of the european parliament for their very constructive speeches. you have tabled a number of very important amendments aimed at strengthening civil protection capacities at european level and relating to prevention, the need to ensure the financing of civil protection operations in third countries and effective early warning and alert systems. the commission supports most of the proposed amendments. i would like to make a special reference to prevention. it is worth noting that its specific aspects, such as the prevention of forest fires or floods, are already covered by specific community financial instruments. the commission does not want overlapping with existing financial instruments. we are, however, aware of the need to strengthen the general aspects of prevention in the context of protection policy and so we are happy to include the proposed amendments in the proposed financial instrument. however, although the commission can accept most of the proposed amendments, there are some which are problematic and cannot be accepted as they stand. first of all, mr papadimoulis, the commission considers that replacing the legal basis with article 175 (1) of the treaty is not appropriate for a financial instrument for civil protection. since there is no specific legal basis for civil protection in the treaty, article 308 of the treaty establishing the european community has always been used for this purpose. the existing financial instruments for civil protection, the action programme and the social mechanism for civil protection are based on that article. in addition, the proposed legal basis refers to the protection of the environment and public health, while civil protection actions should also cover the protection of people and property, including cultural heritage. as regards the inclusion in the financial instrument of emergency interventions outside the european union, the commission agrees with the european parliament on the need to ensure the financing of such actions. the commission decided to separate the financing of internal community actions from external actions by adopting separate legal instruments. in this way, civil protection operations in countries participating in the civil protection mechanism will be covered by the rapid intervention instrument, while civil protection operations in third countries will be financed by the stability instrument. however, in order for the stability instrument to provide a clear basis for financing such actions outside the european union, it is necessary to make explicit reference to civil protection. the commission's position differs from the european parliament's report on these issues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we fully share the european parliament's ambition to develop a stronger european capacity for civil protection interventions, both within and outside the european union, and the need for increased funding. on this subject i would really like to thank you for your support. i would like to stress, however, that with the means, the capabilities and the powers at our disposal, the civil protection and the mechanism we have in the european commission have responded very well to the crises of the past year, namely the various fires in portugal, for example, or the floods in countries such as bulgaria or romania. we have had fourteen such interventions and, of course, the two very large crises in south-east asia with the tsunami where the european union was, through the civil protection mechanism, the first to send its representatives to the region. the european union also responded to the devastation caused by hurricane katrina by providing aid, which it had proposed three days earlier to the competent authorities in the united states, and for which we have, of course, received a very good report from the european council. it is not a bad thing to remember and to emphasize certain things which are well done with the always existing, i stress, possibilities. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i would like to put to the secretariat of the european parliament the full list of the commission's position on the amendments. see annex to the commission's position. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the honourable members for their comments.
the violence of recent natural disasters is a reminder of the vulnerability of our societies to natural hazards: in 20 years, natural disasters have killed 1.5 million people worldwide. to be effective, the treatment of this problem must integrate prevention through risk assessment, prevention, education and information of the population. the eu has made prevention and emergency assistance a priority, creating echo in 1992, the dipecho programme in 1996 and the european solidarity fund in 2002. it also decided in 2005 to set up a european coordination structure, which could rely on a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps. the commission proposes to set up a new instrument for preparing for and reacting rapidly to major emergencies for the period 2007-2013, and we can welcome it. however, the legal basis of this instrument should be modified using article 174 which would involve codecision? preventive measures should be extended to civil protection in third countries and to marine pollution. finally, the budget for this instrument must ensure greater efficiency in emergency aid, both in terms of flexibility and responsiveness, and better visibility of community solidarity inside and outside the eu.
on behalf of the pse group. the knowledge society can only be conceived with the absorption of the digital divide in all its forms. the digital divide between rich and poor countries also exists within the union. to combat this problem effectively, it was necessary to address its various dimensions, both technological and socioeconomic. knowledge of ict is the best answer. the i2010 strategy aims to develop the good use of ict goods and services and the interactive and critical participation in the information society for all and for the benefit of all. this action plan is therefore particularly welcome. we wanted in our amendments to ensure that vulnerable groups such as the elderly, the disabled, the isolated and those in social difficulties were not forgotten. an analysis of the economic, cultural and social effects of the transition to the information society would also seem to me to be very useful for our proper understanding and follow-up of this plan, because i believe that there is no competitiveness without the sharing of knowledge and skills.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, innovation in the field of ict is so fast that we can fear that the european union, which invests only 80 euros per capita, compared with the equivalent of 350 euros for japan and 400 euros for the united states, will be quickly overtaken. the eu must therefore increase its investment in research and urge member states to do the same. on the other hand, in the face of this rapid innovation, we may fear a widening of the digital divide and, consequently, social disparities, to the detriment of the social and territorial cohesion we seek. it is therefore essential to build an information society based on inclusion, on a wide use of information and communication technologies in public services, smes and households. the success of the i2010 strategy requires the european commission to make proposals to make technology accessible to all citizens, taking into account the crucial role of the regions, to guarantee the principles of media freedom and pluralism, to define clear actions in the field of protection against illegal and harmful content, protection of minors and human dignity, while ensuring the protection of privacy. the commission will also have to focus on the good use of ict in public services, especially in health and education. finally, while i am in favour of opening up markets in the medium term after a transitional period towards the implementation of the general rules of competition, i would point out that the treaties define the rules of free competition, while calling for economic and social cohesion and territorial cohesion. free competition in the field of ict must not result in private sector refusal to invest in unprofitable infrastructure. the role of the states and regions will then be decisive in encouraging the necessary infrastructure. it is up to all of us to make icts real tools for economic development and for the social and territorial cohesion of the european union. i thank mr paasilinna for the quality of his work and my colleagues for their contribution to the debate.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank my colleagues for their confidence in me in the preparation of this report. one of the methods i used to prepare for this work was listening. i met all the social partners - employees, employers - and i met with the economic and social council and the committee of the regions, and i had a meeting with commissioner špidla and the commission's partners. we have also done a great deal of consultation with the fictitious rapporteurs and i would like to thank mrs bachelot, mrs mcdonald, mrs schroedter and mr beaupuy here for their sense of compromise and the quality of their work. when we hear about restructuring, we always feel that we are being taken by surprise and confronted with something new. yet, the phenomenon has been around for centuries and is inescapable. society is changing, moving forward, modernizing. it is only natural that its economic activity should follow the same trend. the technological advances made by man over the centuries have generated restructuring. i will take an example, which will not offend anyone in this house: from hunting to farming, our ancestors have undergone many important restructurings. it is true, however, that these restructuring phenomena have taken on a new face with the acceleration of progress and the now global dimension of the market. every new decision we take can be a generator of restructuring. i would therefore like to congratulate the commission here, if i may, for having recognized in its communication that the union, sometimes, as in the textile sector, being at the origin of restructuring movements, had to bear its share of responsibility by supporting them as best it could. as you have seen, i have insisted throughout my report on the need for restructuring, because i believe that it is the key to maintaining the economic competitiveness of our companies and, therefore, to safeguarding employment. but in studying this matter we cannot ignore restructuring based on false pretexts, behind which lies the simple pursuit of immediate profit. we are right to regard such behaviour as immoral, because it is unacceptable in europe today for an employed father of a family to find himself on monday morning outside the closed door of a factory which has been hastily emptied during the weekend. the role of our institutions, as well as that of the social partners, is to intervene as far as possible upstream, in order to better anticipate restructuring and mitigate its consequences in terms of social costs. indeed, whether justified or not, restructuring often leaves people stranded. restructuring is not a phenomenon affecting any one member state in particular. we must not give in to the siren song of trying to turn us against each other as soon as the subject of employment is raised in this house. there are no two blocs with the old member states on one side and the new member states on the other. no, there are 450 million europeans who, from tallinn to lisbon, could be faced with this situation overnight. in my report i try to define three fields of action. first, a field of action to support, say, citizen enterprises, with the strengthening of the tools for analysing the phenomenon, to prevent them upstream, increased aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, the encouragement of lifelong vocational training, which is a right for employees and an undeniable asset for companies, a reform of state aid to support growth and, above all, the establishment of a fund for adjustment to globalisation. secondly, a field of action to punish the 'gangster' companies - allow me to use the term - which are by far the fewest, but also the ones we hear the most about. this type of action requires better control of the use of european funds, to discourage subsidised tourism, to challenge certain restructuring measures whose motives are questionable, and to ensure that the community legal acquis is respected and properly applied. thirdly, a field of action to support those who are the first to be affected by the phenomenon of restructuring: employees. the aim is to set up permanent retraining units so that the time between job loss and new recruitment is as short as possible. it is a question of strengthening the role of the social partners, who are our real asset in dealing with these phenomena, and that is why i ask my colleagues once again to imagine the revision of the directive on european works councils. the aim is to encourage employees to participate in the capital of their enterprises and to set up a single point of contact to enable all citizens of the union to have equal access to health care. finally, i believe that we can help, together with the social partners and without political bias, to support the restructuring process in order to win the battle for employment. let us think about it when, in a few seconds, it is possible, on the other side of the planet, on the simple decision of a board of directors, to reduce to nothing, here, on our territories, the fruits of several decades of work. this series gives us the opportunity to make a difference in the lives of our citizens, because that is what all our technical terms are about: men and women who are only looking for happiness. in the spirit of the founding fathers who made europe a peaceful europe, it is our task today to contribute to the cause of social peace.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. restructuring is necessary to enable the economy to develop, to move away from less productive activities and to strengthen in key areas. however, jobs of the same nature as the jobs lost are usually not created. they get the most services and the most skilled jobs. industry and low-skilled jobs are losing ground. this has a social cost and therefore it is necessary to anticipate restructuring and to provide accompanying measures, with the shared responsibility of public authorities, enterprises and social partners. the restructuring and employment communication of 31 march 2005 was drawn up with this in mind. the commission thanks mr cottigny and all the members who have contributed to the report, which in principle joins the general consensus emerging on the restructuring solution. the commission welcomes parliament's support for the provision of substantial financial resources by the european union for the purpose of anticipating restructuring and providing accompanying measures. more use should be made of the structural funds to support the economic and social transformation of regions and the retraining of workers most affected by restructuring, so as to facilitate their access to a new quality of life base. moreover, the commission has recently adopted a proposal for the creation of a european globalisation adjustment fund, which it has already submitted to you. the aim of this fund is to ensure the future solidarity needed by those who benefit from the benefits of trade liberalisation towards workers made redundant as a result of globalisation. the commission has noted a number of interesting observations in mr cottigny's report, which it will examine in more detail. among them is the idea of a single european administrative seat for restructuring, which i find particularly interesting. as regards better traceability of the use of community funds, the commission proposed that the community funds strengthen the rules on the location of undertakings and that the obligation to maintain productive investments be extended for the period 2007-13. the commission also proposes that undertakings which infringe these rules should be required to repay the aid received and should not be able to receive any aid in the future. in order to take a positive and constructive approach to economic and social change, action by public authorities is essential, both at european, national and regional level. however, restructuring must be addressed first and foremost by those who implement it and bear its consequences, i.e. businesses and workers. this is why last year's communication also addressed the european social partners and called on them to continue to work together to develop and implement preventive and positive restructuring practices. the commission also asked the partners to find ways of strengthening the role of the european works councils. the work programme for the coming years, recently adopted by the european partners, envisages that work on both these issues will continue. the commission calls on the social partners to speed up the achievement of productive results in this area. ladies and gentlemen, restructuring must not become synonymous with social decline and loss of economic substance. on the contrary, they can contribute to economic and social progress, provided that they are anticipated in good time and can be tackled efficiently and quickly by businesses, and that the action of public authorities contributes with appropriate accompanying measures. this conviction, which i am pleased to see is shared by the draft report of the european parliament, must be the guiding principle for growth, social cohesion and a better quality of life.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, restructuring is at the crossroads of two worlds: the economic one, where it is necessary to cope with the changes brought about by globalisation and consumer demands, and the social one, where it is often a source of suffering and anxiety for employees. these restructurings are taking on a new dimension with the emergence of new powers, which are inducing a new dimension of the division of labour, which would end up condemning europe to develop the service sector while renouncing its status as an agricultural and industrial power. we do not resign ourselves to that prospect. the epp-ed group rejects any demonization of the necessary restructuring, but considers that the european market must promote a regulated framework to cushion the shocks of this globalisation. the internal market is not the cause of restructuring, it is the antidote. however, this european model is also a humanistic model and we must take into account the suffering caused to the people and the territories affected by this phenomenon. the question is: how can socially responsible restructuring be promoted? the report by mr cottigny makes it possible to explore several avenues, to which our group has contributed. the first is to review the directive on the european works council and to increase the role of the social partners after extensive consultation with them. the rapporteur has proposed an amendment to this effect, which we support. other avenues, access to expertise and exchange of good practice, which is a relevant field for the open method of coordination; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal is to optimise the support for solidarity policies from the esf/erdf structural funds, provided, however, that the financial perspectives do not compromise them. finally, i would mention research and innovation. i would like to end by thanking the rapporteur, mr cottigny, for his openness, which has enabled us to reach many compromises and should allow our group, if it is not accidental, to vote in favour of his report.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this report is quite exemplary in many ways. i think the first reason is that the report before us does indeed pose the problem. a number of you have pointed out, including the rapporteur himself, that this is not a new problem, that it has existed for millennia. i would simply like to emphasize that these adaptation issues - because restructuring is only one part of the adaptation of companies - are a necessity to better meet the needs of the consumer customer that we are, each of us. i shall not go into the various points raised by the rapporteur in his presentation of the subject. what i would like to say, because i think it is exemplary, is that he has made very pragmatic proposals, which i would group into six categories. this has been emphasized by both sides. the first point is the need to work as far upstream as possible. i would also point out to our colleagues that the vast majority of restructuring decisions are not heard of because they are decided in advance. secondly, we must involve the partners, the partners of the company, of course, but also the regional and external partners. finally, and this point has been raised, it is the support of employees. i would like to emphasize one very specific aspect, however, namely the individual support for employees, because there are not only global responses. it really needs an individualized response. each worker must be able to find an answer by means of information, help in finding a job, etc. as for the companies, we will distinguish, as you said, the fraudulent companies - which are some of the most essential companies - which need to be supported. i would like to mention support for the disadvantaged regions. thank you, mr rapporteur, for the way you have worked. as mrs bachelot said for her group, i would say that as far as my group is concerned, there is a very good chance, a very good chance, that we will support you. in conclusion, commissioner, i would of course like the commission to hear the proposals of our parliament, but i would also like the various actors - in the member states, in the regions, in the chambers of commerce and in the various professional bodies - to hear the content of this report and the spirit of this report, so that restructuring is not a matter of inevitability but rather an opportunity for these companies and their employees to bounce back.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after the hutchinson report, which we discussed last night, the cottigny report raises the question of restructuring and relocation of companies. i would like to thank both rapporteurs for raising these socioeconomic problems, which are among the most worrying and cause social insecurity for our citizens. it is a good thing that parliament is debating this. these questions pose the challenge to the european union of the economic competitiveness of our enterprises and the challenge of the employment security of our employees. in the minds of european employees, relocations and restructuring are linked and almost synonymous because they have the same consequences: the loss of their jobs after years of work in the same sector of activity, sometimes even in the same company, the same questioning of their professional value. this should not be the case, because restructuring is sometimes a sign of progress, of technical progress. restructuring does not cover the same economic causes as relocation and it is up to the legislator to provide a suitable solution to each problem. i would like to emphasize here the question of restructuring companies for reasons of technological change. this is the central question of the cottigny report. this question challenges the european union's ability to adapt to the ever-accelerating changes of our era of technological progress. it really challenges us to anticipate them. they say to govern, you must plan! similarly, to be an entrepreneur, to be at the forefront of economic production and competition, is also to plan. it is not a question of adapting to progress, but of anticipating it, of inventing it. in this area, the responsibility lies entirely with the firms, which must produce and which must help their employees to anticipate by ensuring their continuing training. that is the question of the cottigny report and i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, and the commissioner, to support these proposals.
mr president, one thing is certain: there is no shortage of structures and networks of all kinds devoted to the study and defence of women. the institute for gender equality, the various ngos, ad hoc committees, agencies for fundamental rights, consultative forums on women's rights, the european women's lobby, or our own committee in parliament are among them. so is it really reasonable to create a new european institute for equality between men and women? in this nebula of structures which do not always function in perfect harmony in the exchange of information, will this new organ which is supposed to network all this information have the real means of existing? in other words, can we be sure of it today, even beyond its possible viability, its complete political and financial independence? it seems that it is not, since the commission is not prepared to give too much leeway to this future institute. the fact that the director of the institute is not accountable to the commission but only to the board of directors is very telling in this respect. for all these reasons and more, i cannot support this initiative to create what i would call "another gas plant".
i would like to congratulate the two co-correspondents, mrs gröner and mrs sartori, on their excellent work. the report does indeed make a number of improvements to the commission's original text, which i also suggested in my draft opinion in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i'll give you four. firstly, the proactive role of the institute, particularly through its analytical and expertise missions and the possibility of submitting recommendations and guidelines to the community institutions. secondly, the importance of cooperation with the fundamental rights agency. secondly, the need for a balanced representation of men and women on the board of directors and, finally, the role of the european parliament, particularly with regard to the appointment of the institute's director and the members of the board of directors and the monitoring of their work. such an institution is indispensable for a true europe of citizens and i was extremely disappointed that my draft opinion was rejected in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs by 18 votes to 18, because of the will of a section of the epp and the liberals to prevent such an institution from being established. however, i am also happy to see and to note that the co-colporteurs incorporated the essence of my concerns into their report.
the agenda calls for voting time. today, our voting time will be split into two parts to make way for the solemn session devoted to the address of the president of the federal republic of germany. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
i shall now adjourn the sitting for a few minutes pending the speech by mr horst köhler. we shall resume our votes immediately following the formal sitting. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon pending the formal sitting)
ladies and gentlemen, we shall now resume our voting time.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to propose as an oral amendment to amendment no 9 the deletion of the reference to civil society. the rest of the amendment would be unchanged.
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was accepted)
voting time is closed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, mrs piia-noora kauppi, on the proposal to amend the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the capital of public limited liability companies. while protecting the rights of shareholders and creditors, it was becoming urgent to simplify the procedures for setting and changing the capital of public limited companies in view of the multiplication of the various situations faced by economic agents. in the light of the considerations which have led to these legislative developments, i believe that it is necessary to undertake a broader policy reflection aimed, in particular, at regulating access, direct or indirect, to the capital of companies operating in the european internal market for natural or legal persons not resident in the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation. i welcome the strengthening of the european union's civil protection mechanisms in case of emergency. this community response instrument must be visible, coordinated and highly responsive. it's a race against time that happens when there's a natural disaster. the key to the success of these interventions lies in the perfect cooperation between the various actors. i have wished to emphasize the preventive aspect in my amendments. yes, while it is important to know what to do when disaster strikes, it is even more important to know how to prevent it. prevention is a fundamental element of risk reduction. for example, fires are very often man-made. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. on the other hand, before we can draw up action plans, we need to make an inventory of the existing material and human resources. this inventory should be carried out by the european commission in cooperation with the member states. finally, the primary responsibility for civil protection lies with the member states. these community mechanisms must therefore complement the policies pursued by national, regional or local authorities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on relocations in the context of regional development, because it is essential to reassure our citizens that the european union is the source of solutions in the context of the great economic and social changes of today, not the source of the problems. the seriousness of the economic and social issues linked to relocations warrants a strong european policy to reconcile the necessary changes with the objective of cohesion. i would like to stress with great satisfaction the demand for all objective and forward-looking information on the phenomenon of relocations. this information will be essential to us, particularly in the context of the negotiations before the world trade organisation on economic sectors which are very exposed to these changes, which can be very sudden. similarly, it was urgent to clarify the european aid regime in the light of relocations, in particular by establishing a link between the aid and the obligation to produce within the territory of the union. finally, i welcome the request for the introduction of social clauses in international treaties, on the basis of the priority conventions of the international labour organisation.
in writing. i voted for the hutchinson report on relocations in the regional context after having participated in the committee debate and amended it. this report proposes to avoid the structural funds from promoting measures which contribute to relocations which generate high social costs in our regions. it called for the establishment of a european strategy to combat relocations and the creation of a european relocation observatory to quantify the real impact of european aid on relocations. the aim is not to return to a managed economy or to undermine the free and undistorted competition which is the basis of the common market. nor is it a question of controlling all enterprises or of preventing the development of the new member states. but it is important to remember that the structural funds must be instruments of development and social cohesion and not weapons of war between our regions. even in the richest countries of the european union, there are still poor regions where workers are desperate to see their tools of labour disappear, often without the possibility of a return to work.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr hutchinson's report on relocations which stresses the urgency for the eu to take account of the serious effects of business relocations on people and territories. the evolution of this phenomenon and its consequences must be brought to light, and an observatory should be able to do this. but this also requires a more binding legislative framework within the eu, the inclusion of social and environmental clauses in international trade. the interests of the workers and the preservation of jobs must be at the heart of our political concerns. this is essential to achieve the goals of full employment and the lisbon strategy as advocated in 2000, goals which we will not succeed in achieving without a european industrial policy.
in writing. in calling for the reimbursement of european aid paid to companies relocating their activities, mr hutchinson's report echoes one of the proposals made in the île-de-france regional elections by the front national concerning subsidies to the regional council. the european institutions are beginning to realise the economic and social consequences of their policy choices: many of our companies are being forced to relocate their activities because the destruction of frontiers puts them in competition with producers with extremely low labour costs. to protect our economies from this social dumping, to preserve our social model, we must implement a different policy: to re-establish our frontiers, to make our companies more competitive by financing our social security with a social vat that would replace contributions. this would require national governments to retain their sovereignty in taxation. these are some of the economic and social measures of common sense that could be taken, not by the current europe of brussels, which the french people disavowed last year, but by a europe of free and sovereign nations.
in writing. creating a single market between 25 states with very different wage, social and tax costs was to lead to the relocation of firms to countries with low production costs. that's what happened. the ten new states attract companies from "old europe" and even us companies based in mexico. it is all the more shocking that these states are offering themselves an attractive tax burden and then have their health, social, road and other facilities paid for by the western states, which, by increasing their taxation to finance the ten, are at the same time aggravating their production handicap. there is a substantive solution for relocations outside the union. the new technology tariff must be invented with three characteristics: it must be modulable according to the difference in production costs between two countries. be refundable. the customs duty borne by the exporter would become a 'tax credit' deductible by purchase on the economy of the importer. in other words, the customs duty would give the exporter a drag on the importer's economy, triggering a 'win-win' international trade multiplier. finally, they would be eligible for subsidies where the importer would wish to grant an advantage to the exporter. the customs credit would then become a 'matching credit' as international tax law already knows.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. we must have a firm community strategy on mercury. but being firm also means being realistic. mercury-containing merthiolate is used as a preservative in some medicines, including vaccines. there are approximately 1 million doses of vaccine for which merthiolate is used in the manufacturing process for decontamination purposes. this represents 0.0000003% of the mercury used annually in europe. in view of the tremendous positive impact of vaccination on public health, including in developing countries, there would be no justification for an immediate ban on this product in vaccines. however, the search for alternative methods should be encouraged in order to reduce or eliminate the use of merthiolate in the future. i would also remind you that, in accordance with pharmaceutical regulations, manufacturers must prove that their products do not harm the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a european information model for growth and jobs because i consider access to information and communication technologies to be a necessary condition for economic development and social progress. the use of these technologies affects almost all technical, administrative, commercial, cultural, social, health and other sectors. it is imperative that all inhabitants of the european union have equal opportunities to access these technologies at a cost that corresponds to a normal market price. i welcome the idea of combatting the digital divide and it is good to recall how the european union has missed an opportunity to apply a policy consistent with the licences for the third generation of mobile telephony: the umts (universal mobile telecom system) which were auctioned by the member states under unfortunate conditions in view of the possibilities offered by this technology for policy coherence. we won't have to make that mistake again. i fully support the need to invest in research and innovation in these technologies, which are important catalysts for competitiveness, growth and jobs.
mr president, commissioner, you have given us the figures: today, european shoe production has fallen by about 30%, import prices have fallen by more than 20% and, above all, the sector has lost almost 40 000 jobs. six months after the textile crisis - as we had foreseen at the time - the community market is again confronted with unfair trading practices. we have, as you have pointed out, evidence of state intervention and disguised subsidies for producers in china and vietnam. however, when faced with the finding of such a violation of trade practices, the european union has a duty to react and to correct the injury caused to the community industry, in accordance with wto rules. that is why, as you have shown, commissioner, it is necessary to introduce anti-dumping measures on these imports. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet known whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. the aim is rather to guarantee the conditions for balanced trade, which safeguards the interests of consumers and producers. therefore, intervention to limit the negative effects of dumping should not be seen as protectionism. the european union is committed to harmonious and open trade relations with its asian partners, to lift these populations out of poverty, but it is also committed to fair and equitable trade rules for all.
mr president, commissioner, since the abolition of the quota system last year, imports from china have, as has been mentioned, increased dramatically by some 500%. this has serious consequences for the competitiveness of the european footwear sector, which, faced with this surge of imports at very low prices, is experiencing a number of dramatic bankruptcies, not to mention the accompanying job losses. in addition, our traditional suppliers, the candidate countries and the countries of the euromed zone, have been excluded from the community market. the commission is silent on this and does not seem to want to assess the impact of the damage caused by this liberalization. following complaints from the players in this sector, you opened an anti-dumping investigation. its alarming results reveal undeniable evidence of state intervention and social dumping, with material damage to our industries. to combat this distortion of the basic rules of international trade, you are proposing measures today. i am concerned, however, about the gradual entry into force of these anti-dumping duties over a period of five months, a precedent which seems to me to be ill-timed, legally questionable and not without adverse effects. these duties should eliminate either dumping or injury. the proposed progressive rates do not meet either of these two alternative conditions. finally, the exclusion of children's shoes seems to me unjustified and incomprehensible. your proposals could very soon prove inadequate in the face of the extent of the damage suffered by our companies. other initiatives to counter these unfair trade practices could be taken, for example the possibility of opening an investigation under the transitional safeguard mechanism for chinese imports, which has the advantage of being simple and effective. if the member states were to ask you to do so, would the commission consider doing so? is it possible, commissioner, to assess china's effective implementation of wto trade rules and its adherence to fair and honest trade practices, as opposed to its flagrant violations of wto law? your proposals are neither strong nor enlightened. after textiles last year and footwear today, what other sectors will have to suffer these unfair practices tomorrow?
mr president, in romans, in the drôme, the unemployment rate is 18% - double the french average - because the shoe industry is in disarray and ancestral know-how is disappearing. this bankruptcy stems from the anachronistic application of the ricardian model which underlies your policy. the new international division of labour has pushed low-wage countries to specialise in labour-intensive industries, while high-saving countries focus on highly capitalist industries. today, capital, thirsty for growth, is also going to these countries. the countries of the union, which had high productivity and high wages, are being overtaken by countries with equal productivity and low wages. the european union must be able to take action to protect its citizens, and to protect the union's citizens. without this, all our labour industries will follow in the footwear industry's footsteps.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the opportunity we have today to discuss the european judicial area, on the basis of the report i have drawn up on the evaluation, which is still very recent and therefore necessarily fragmentary, of a year's experience of the european arrest warrant. we have already had occasion to discuss this matter. before i turn to the european arrest warrant, i would like to make a brief reminder that behind this concept of an area of justice, which was born very gradually after the geneva appeal in 1996, there was the ambition to give the citizen a common sense of justice in an environment where the authorities are doing everything possible to prevent this freedom from being abused or their rights violated. in october 1999, the tampere summit marked an important milestone with the introduction of the principle of mutual recognition. this was a radical change. it implies mutual trust, the exercise of shared sovereignty and the recognition of the european space as a common territory. as we have seen since then, difficulties persist and there is a need for greater awareness. the spirit and ambition of the heads of state in tampere, it must be said, did not animate the discussions on the texts presented since then with the same enthusiasm. mutual recognition has inspired many projects, but the most emblematic measure is the creation of the european arrest warrant. it is a sure step forward, but it is faced with persistent difficulties. what was the purpose of this measure, which officially entered into force on 1 january 2004? the european arrest warrant applies to a wider range of offences than those covered by extradition. thanks to this mandate, the handover, and this is an advantage, has become a completely judicial process and no longer political. finally, eu law is becoming readable to practitioners, whereas the current law on extradition is based on a thousand bilateral and national conventions. moreover, it is recalled on several occasions, in particular in article 1 of the framework decision, that, in issuing and executing the arrest warrant, member states and judicial authorities must ensure that the principles recognised in the charter of fundamental rights are strictly respected. the principle of this instrument is laid down, but what about the practical application? we have today an evaluation carried out by the european commission over a short period of time, as i said, and we must therefore remain cautious about the results of this evaluation, which will have to be completed. some of the objectives have been perfectly achieved. for example, recently the arrest warrant was instrumental in the prosecution of an ethiopian man by british authorities who was suspected of involvement in the london bombings. his extradition by the italian authorities was obtained in record time. another success was the arrest of a corrupt magistrate, wanted by her country, greece. the european arrest warrant is a clear success, with 3 000 warrants issued in 2004, 1 000 arrested and 650 surrendered. the figures for 2005 will certainly show an increase but will not be officially available until june/july. the extradition process is very short. with the replacement of the former extradition procedure by the european arrest warrant, the average length of proceedings has been reduced from nine months to 43 days, which is a considerable gain for both judges and the persons subject to them. and, last but not least, the procedure is no longer politicised at all, since it no longer goes through governments but only through the judiciary. however, it is clear that there are several obstacles to its application. for example, last autumn the spanish courts declared the european arrest warrant issued by germany void in response to berlin's refusal to extradite the german-syrian national mamoun darkazanli, a suspected al-qaeda figure. several member states are also trying to recover elements of the traditional system, i.e. double criminality control. in addition to the optional grounds for non-enforcement provided for in the framework decision, some states added other grounds for refusal. more importantly, the issue of fundamental rights has given rise to significant transposition problems in poland and germany. this difficulty must be interpreted as a misunderstanding of the principle of mutual recognition. this principle is precisely the basis for the whole construction of the european judicial area. in conclusion, i would say that the european arrest warrant is a great step forward in the fight against crime, first and foremost in the service of citizens, and in the establishment of the european judicial area. however, the challenges are still many and should not be underestimated. the first difficulty is that our judicial systems are too disparate. the second difficulty is that most states are still too keen to control international mutual legal assistance. even if the judicial system is a product of history, the questions that arise will have to be resolved. conclusion: is more or less harmonization needed? i think we need more. should we go further in mutual recognition of systems? i think so too.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur for his very comprehensive work. this report gives us an opportunity to assess the european arrest warrant, the first concrete instrument of the european judicial area, but also to redefine our priorities for the implementation of a genuine european judicial area. the european arrest warrant, as we have said, has been a great success: 2,600 warrants have been issued throughout the european union since its inception, and judicial proceedings have been considerably speeded up. so borders are no longer an obstacle to justice. this success shows that the member states are willing to work together. we are thus strengthening the principle of mutual trust, which is the cornerstone of the european judicial area. the european arrest warrant has nevertheless encountered obstacles in its application imposed by certain governments, and i regret the delay in its transposition in italy. this delay led to a late assessment of the country by the commission. in addition, member states have different interpretations of the term 'mandate' in their national laws. this also illustrates the lack of political will on the part of the states and the limitations imposed by the way decisions are taken in this area. however, the success of the european arrest warrant shows that it is impossible to limit ourselves to civil law. we must be more ambitious and extend judicial cooperation to criminal law. that is why we believe it is essential to use article 42 and the bridge clause to achieve a minimum of harmonisation of european criminal law. we will thus be able to put an end to the unanimity rule which is a hindrance to the establishment of a genuine area of freedom, security and justice. we must also close the democratic deficit, and only if the european parliament is fully involved in the creation of a european judicial area can fundamental rights be protected. secondly, how can we move forward effectively if we limit ourselves to the safe zone? we have made progress in policing, but we must also be demanding in respect of fundamental rights. the proposal on procedural guarantees must therefore be dealt with in parallel. finally, i would like to ask the commission and the council a specific question: when will we finally be able to move forward with other concrete instruments, such as the exchange of evidence and the exchange of data between criminal records?
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague mr grech for the clarity and rigor of his report, which is as complete as it is pragmatic. the paragraphs on our institution, the only democratically elected representation of the people of the european union, as louis grech put it, have caught my attention, particularly those on visits to parliament. the recent debates on the constitutional treaty and the result of the referendum in my country, which i personally deplored, highlight the fact that too many of our citizens are unaware of the reality and importance of the european union in their daily lives. fears and misconceptions often take the place of information. i also draw from my brief experience as a newly elected european member that whenever i have had the opportunity to receive visitors in brussels or strasbourg, regardless of their age, origin or socio-professional level, they have left convinced, i hope, and at any rate better informed and always interested, i am sure. a well-known marketing rule is that a dissatisfied customer tells eleven people and a satisfied customer tells only four. so let us increase the number of satisfied citizens, because they are better informed, so that we can spread the european idea among our people. but to do that, as the grech report points out, we must increase the number of visitors per member of parliament. i support his request. recently, the european parliament's information office for france organised an exciting european forum in my constituency on the theme 'dialogue on europe: bridging the gap between the european union and the citizen'. many participants regretted that the number of sponsored visits to parliament was not higher. that's a real request. i would also like to say that in welcoming our visitors and in organising our work, our assistants play an irreplaceable role. they share our elected life, they give us their intelligence and their time without counting, but there are great disparities between them and their social situation is often precarious. they really deserve - louis grech points out in his report - that they should finally be given a real and meaningful status.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by congratulating our colleague mr louis grech on his work and the very high quality of his report. in the present context and with the difficulties we are facing in the negotiations with the council on the financial perspective for 2007 to 2013, this report is timely in taking stock of the financial means which will have to be used in 2007 to finance the major institutions of our union: parliament, council, court of justice, etc. i would like to join the calls tonight for the principles of good management and also for valueadded research, but i would like to see these principles extended to all the institutions and, of course, especially to the agencies of the european union. we must make even greater efforts to optimise the means of work, the management of the computer tool, the costs of data transmission and, finally, our human resources policy. i, for my part, would like to stress our communication policy: it must give our citizens real access not only to information, as has just been explained, but also to all the expressions of the union. the citizens of the union must be able not only to understand the decisions we take on their behalf, but also to take ownership of this wonderful project of society which we are building for them, and i hope, with them. we must therefore redouble our efforts to communicate, and allocate resources to implement a communication policy that is modern, effective, educational, in a word, adapted to our times, particularly through tools such as web television. in the same vein, i think it is necessary to stress the importance of also increasing the reception of visitors and the press at the various meeting places. we are clearly lacking sufficient infrastructure in view of this future enlargement. i very often receive delegations in the halls of parliament.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to pay tribute to the work of the two rapporteurs, ingeborg gräßle and borut pahor, and congratulate them on the quality of their report. as members of parliament we had to review the financial regulation for a number of reasons. the need for reform of the financial regulation was becoming urgent. i want to see this in the various problems we have had to face as representatives of the european people, particularly in the field of informing the public. we need to communicate more and better with the citizen. the revision of the financial regulation is one way of achieving this. the procurement and grant packages are welcome as a step forward in improving financial management. the same applies to the protection of the communities' financial interests, inter alia, by the proposed amendment concerning recovery, suspension or execution of contracts and sanctions. i am thinking in particular of the amendments concerning the simplification measures. the challenge for us is to strike a balance between simplification and sound financial management. i welcome the approach of the rapporteurs to make the rules simpler for the beneficiaries, in particular by simplifying administrative procedures, while at the same time strengthening control over how our budget is spent. we must provide the means to sustain dialogue with civil society and not create discrimination between organisations, those which have the means to respond to community programmes and those which do not. the report will preserve the rights of parliament in the future, whether in terms of its power of control or its right to information as a branch of the budgetary authority. in the same vein, i would like to point out that the provisions concerning the financing of political groups or political parties are of paramount importance. this is a matter of european citizenship, to which parliament must contribute if it is to ensure the future of the european public sphere.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the fact that mahmoud abbas was not able to speak here is not dramatic, but politically difficult to bear, because this would have been the forum to show a perspective on the situation in which the middle east is at the moment. the unilateral policy currently being pursued there is leading to disaster, unilateral policies of one side or the other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. we can watch it there. the european union, the council, the commission and mr solana must insist on one thing: there is no longer a policy of unilateralism. israel cannot decide alone what the palestinian state should look like. this is not possible, and the international community cannot tolerate it. the palestinians and their hamas government cannot decide alone how and when to use force against israel. europe, the world, cannot let this go unchallenged. if both powers believe that they can develop a universally valid option of action from their legitimate position, which allows them not to talk to the other or to despise the other, then the international community must prevent this. it also means that the decision on when and how israel takes action in the palestinian territories cannot be left to israel unilaterally, even in the case of security issues. martin schulz, it is quite clear: it's a domestic election. olmert and the kadima had said they would return settlements. that's a left-handed shot. now they wanted to score right, that's why they took this action. let's not kid ourselves, this is just an election tactic. the worst part is that the future of this region is being sacrificed for an election. so i say to everyone here, let's not lie to ourselves. the israelis were unable to act. the prison at jericho was no longer a prison. that's a fact, too. you could hold a press conference with 500 journalists. i would like to see a prison in the world - i was in prison once in a while - where you can hold a press conference with 500 journalists. both are unilateral, unacceptable acts. you just have to see it. if you want to get someone out of prison, you can do it, there are legal means to do it. that is what the palestinians, hamas, should have done. but israel has no right to storm an establishment if something is wrong. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the speed with which president mahmoud abbas accepted your invitation shows the importance he attached to his visit to the european parliament and it illustrates all the more the seriousness of the decision he had to make to return to his country in a hurry. he considered that the situation created by this new and, moreover, deliberately humiliating escalation - you rightly alluded to it - of israeli violence and its inevitable consequences, which are otherwise totally unacceptable, inevitable and nevertheless foreseeable, such as these abductions, could be extremely serious for his country. i think that the european union is called upon to respond to this case in a number of ways. first, because a member country, britain, had an agreement with the united states and the palestinian authority that these two western countries would oversee the prison. israel has flagrantly violated that agreement, and for four years there has been no problem. no prisoners escaped, and none of them tried to do so. and if, nevertheless, daniel cohn-bendit, israel felt that there was a problem, president abbas had proposed to the israeli government to transfer the prisoners to the moukata, under good supervision, including international. so there was no excuse, no basis for israel's decision. can we accept that? the second reason why the european union is being called upon to respond is, i think, excuse my frankness, the systematically complacent attitude of the european union towards the government of ariel sharon yesterday and that of his successor today. how else can we understand that a would-be prime minister would dare to take the insane risk of inflaming the already explosive situation in palestine and the region, just to give a pledge to the most extreme fringe of his electorate - i agree with my colleagues on this point. it's something unimaginable! he allows this because he knows that, on the one hand, the american leaders give israel carte blanche no matter what it does, and on the other hand, european leaders have accustomed this power to impunity. the question we must ask ourselves today is: in view of the outcome of this policy, will we continue to accept without reaction that this new torpedo against peace is weakening more and more those palestinians who are most committed to peaceful solutions and, in the first place, president mahmoud abbas? these are the questions that i think we should be asking ourselves. for my part, mr president, i shall make three specific proposals to the conference of presidents tomorrow morning for an immediate reaction by our parliament, in order to express visibly and solemnly our attachment to the rule of law and to a just peace in the middle east. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the commission, mr representative of the council, the commission has, as a rule, the knack of finding evocative patronymics for its programmes: erasmus, socrates... well, she could have called her lisbon strategy "janus", after the famous roman deity, usually depicted with two faces, one facing the future, the other the past. exactly like the lisbon agenda! one of the aspects of the lisbon strategy for the decade 2000-2010 is positive. he referred to the conclusions of the european council of spring 2005, which i quote, 'the need to invest in human capital, which is europe's most important asset'. it calls for more jobs, even full employment, and better quality jobs; stresses the importance of research, education, innovation and a strong industrial fabric throughout the union; it even sets out the objective of, quote, "stopping the loss of biodiversity by 2010". this face of the european janus is facing the future. it seems to herald such an era of social, economic and ecological progress that it is hard to understand, at first sight, that the commission considers, and i quote, 'that much remains to be done to convince citizens that the reforms will contribute to the advent of greater and shared prosperity and to involve them in it'. why the hell? the other side of the lisbon strategy is that it is geared towards the liberal obsessions of the eu leaders. i quote the latest commission communication: the need to make europe more attractive to business; reform of pensions, the health sector, the labour market; fiscal consolidation; increase the effective retirement age; increase labour productivity; ensure that there is genuine competition in the services sector; promoting increased competition in electricity and gas markets, etc. the commission even expects the trade unions to play, i quote, 'a role as a multiplier of this liberal strategy'. it expects parliament to join in this communication effort. well, do not count on us to explain to german public servants who are protesting against longer working hours and lower wages, to italian employees who are demanding the repeal of law 30, this machine for manufacturing precariousness, to young french people who are protesting against the draft of a two-year employment contract allowing employers to dismiss as they please, to british female employees who are opposed to the project of raising the retirement age from 60 to 65, to employees from the new member countries of central europe who do not want their countries to be considered a low-cost zone and claim their rights to social progress, or to all those who oppose the strategy of compression of public expenditure and social policy under the stability pact of the lisbon treaty, do not dismiss us, explain to us, that they are preparing for their happiness, then, as opposed to the strategy, they are preparing for their happiness, then, that they are deceiving themselves, then, that they are preparing for their happiness. the truth is that the two parts of lisbon are incompatible. you have to fail the second to keep the first alive. that is our choice.
mr president, 2005 was the first year of implementation of the revised lisbon strategy. the strategy is better known, it has been discussed in the member states, and the national reform programmes have been adopted. it's an improvement, but it's pretty much the only one. the president of the council was bold enough to say earlier that the lisbon strategy was being revived. actually, it's rather stuffed. as martin schulz said, it is embedded in the financial outlook of lithuania, in anemic growth within the euro zone. it is marred by a flagrant lack of investment in research and innovation, in universities, in lifelong learning, whether it be investment at european level or at member state level. the transeuropean networks are also in the process of being completed, renewable energies and biotechnologies are still a poor relative of our investment and research efforts. let us move to higher gear, you said, mr barroso: let us put the first gear on, that would be good enough, i would like to answer you! for the lisbon strategy to be a success, it will need the means, a coherent financial perspective with defined priorities, investments at the level of each member state, a macroeconomic framework that really supports growth. but it will also require the citizens to take ownership of it, as you mentioned, mr president. adherence to the growth strategy that the european union has defined is a condition for its success. the social dimension of this strategy should therefore be abandoned, and we should be dragged along the path of all-round liberalization, precariousness and the weakening of social rights and public services. this would be to weaken the foundations of the union's future competitiveness, to turn away from europe of excellence, and to turn away the citizens of the european union and its policies. social is not the enemy of competitiveness! the nordic countries, as we have often mentioned in this debate, have been able to carry out reforms because they have negotiated them and have brought with them not only new economic flexibility and substantial benefits for workers in social matters, in lifelong learning and in the protection of rights, but also a collective effort to invest in research and innovation. this implies, however, that a high level of redistribution and levying is maintained, both in fiscal and social terms. similarly, germany has regained all its export strengths and, like other countries in the european union, has demonstrated that even with high wage costs, even with a social protection system that is one of the best in europe and one of the best in the world, it is possible to maintain its place in international competition. so let us stop using global competition to belittle the european social model. let us call on it to invest more in europe's assets, in human capital, in research and innovation. the recovery of growth today depends mainly on strengthening domestic demand, consumer confidence, the recovery of purchasing power and a more equitable distribution of income and value added between what goes to shareholders and what goes to the remuneration of employees. in conclusion, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i would like to say that the european council will be judged on two points: on the one hand, the lessons it will learn from parliament's vote on the services directive - do not go back to bolkestein! - and, on the other hand, the freedom of movement of workers from the new member states within the union - it is time to grant them this fundamental freedom! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, will the next spring summit be able to meet the challenges of our time and the environmental challenges, the challenges of energy policy, the expectations of our young people, the duty to acknowledge our elders, who are increasing in number, and this requires appropriate infrastructure? our society is changing and that is what worries our citizens. we must therefore go along with them, and anticipate the difficulties of the coming decades. the welfare state of the '80s is no longer the answer. we must reconcile flexibility and security, find other ways of giving priority to employment, restore confidence to our citizens, confidence in their policies, confidence in europe, a europe that is organising itself. this trust that makes, spontaneously, growth develops, birth progresses. birth rate is a good barometer of the state of our society. this is the confidence that makes immigration a great opportunity, a confidence that, instead of stifling private initiative, liberates it, encourages it, supports it. this newfound confidence allows us to better train and retain our researchers for a better knowledge society. but when we see what is happening to erasmus, there is really cause for concern! finally, a europe which has no taboos and therefore dares to speak of nuclear energy and energy independence. there are many more examples. but without adequate budget, what are the speeches for? today we are told that we must choose, mr president of the commission, between the large transeuropean networks and galileo. is that possible? i say no. we need galileo and we need to complete the internal market with better communications. and let me support the lyon-turin rail link project. so i would not like this morning to be the ninth occasion to talk about the lisbon strategy. talk and talk. it's time to act! courage, gentlemen of the heads of government! the lisbon strategy is the only antidote to national protectionism.
the themes of competitiveness and growth have always been at the heart of the lisbon strategy. today, and i would like to say that this is an excellent thing, the resolution we are going to vote on introduces the social dimension. it should not be seen as a hindrance to the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy, since it allows, among other things, all citizens of the european union to have access to high-quality education and lifelong learning. i would like to recall the importance of a european exchange programme for apprentices. i would also like to emphasize the role played by smes in achieving the lisbon objectives: they are one of the main sources of jobs of the future. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the cip. as you will have understood, i regret the lack of a budget that meets the ambitions set out in the lisbon strategy, and i hope that we will be able to improve the financial perspectives in this respect.
mr president, i would like to put forward an amendment for greater clarity. a fund to support workers affected by restructuring is to be set up. it is called, in mr cottigny's report, the growth adjustment fund and i propose to use the name of the european commission, namely a european fund for adjustment to globalisation, to avoid confusion.
in writing. like european immigration policies, the european arrest warrant is very dangerous and has consequences for everyone. it covers both serious and minor offences (terrorism, theft, deliberate humiliation, insulting an officer at a meeting, racist and xenophobic remarks, etc.) and, in all cases, the rights of individuals are less protected than under the previous extradition procedure, which allowed the political power to make or refuse extradition. today, the arrest warrant has become a purely judicial procedure because of the abolition of the administrative and political phase and of the control exercised by the administrative courts. this arrest warrant was hastily issued in response to the attacks of september 11 and the heads of state and government of the european union did not hesitate to sell out individual freedoms and the rights of the defence of everyone, more for the sake of media image than for the sake of wisdom and responsibility. ideally conceived by our eurocrats as an asset in the defence of fundamental human rights, the european arrest warrant is now seen in its true light: a tool of totalitarian repression and potentially dangerous for each of us.
in writing. a financial regulation is the financial constitution. so this is important. we must reform this regulation, which is blocking the european administrative machine, because it is the thermometer or record of the european bureaucratic metastasis. if it takes voluminous manuals to understand this regulation, if it has been necessary to create a 'help desk' to come every day to assist officials lost in the maze of its procedures, if companies, institutes, organizations, farmers, citizens cannot benefit from all the subsidies or participate in all the markets, it is simply because the financial regulation is based on the fundamental philosophical principle that runs through the whole of european construction: the principle of the smoke gene, which the italian financier puviani called in 1905, the principle of financial illusions, which consists in hiding the european truth behind the complexity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the fourth world water forum to be held in mexico city from 16 to 22 march 2006 because i believe that water will be one of the major issues for the well-being of our fellow citizens and for peace in the world. the european union could not be absent from this global challenge of enabling human beings to have access to this precious natural resource of water. we have a collective responsibility to ensure that this issue is taken care of, since it concerns the fundamental rights of human beings, animals and plants. at the same time, i wonder if the time has not come to consider whether the union should not consider a major european water policy in order to guarantee in a sustainable and renewable way the supply of sufficient quality and quantity to the inhabitants of the union wherever they are in the territory of the european union. i believe that the commission should anticipate the presentation to the european parliament and the council of the report provided for in article 18 (1) of directive 2000/60/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 23 october 2000 establishing a framework for community water policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on restructuring and employment because it is necessary to demonstrate to our citizens that the european union is the source of solutions in the context of the great economic and social changes of today and not the source of the problems. the serious economic and social issues linked to industrial restructuring, in particular, call for a strong european policy to reconcile the necessary changes with the union's competitiveness. i welcome the proposal to set up a european fund for adaptation to globalisation. it was becoming urgent to be able to reconcile, on the one hand, the inevitable industrial restructuring linked to economic changes and, on the other hand, the protection of the first victims, which are the dismissed employees and the economic activities dependent on the restructured sectors, in particular subcontractors. finally, i fully support the idea of having the european union intervene in favour of regions which, having undergone restructuring, must be reconverted.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on restructuring and employment which proposes financial means, an increased role for the social partners, and tools for analysing and anticipating restructuring. the reasons for restructuring are varied, defensive or offensive, but they always have the same effect on employees, who are the variable for adjusting the strategies of industrial groups. the european union's approach to this problem with the objective of anticipating the consequences of restructuring on employees is commendable and necessary, but it is the eu's duty to define a dynamic economic and industrial policy, concerned with the preservation and creation of jobs for european citizens, as well as social and territorial cohesion. i therefore regret that the eu itself is promoting competition between member states by allowing social and fiscal dumping to take place.
in writing. industrial restructuring is an old and ongoing phenomenon, generated by technical progress and improved productivity. they are often unavoidable to ensure the maintenance of competitiveness and thus employment in the long term. the social cost of these jobs is still high, especially in regions with traditional industries where low-skilled and low-mobility workers have difficulty in converting. the social consequences of these must therefore be reduced. that is why i voted with great conviction for the cottigny report on restructuring and employment. i hope very much that his proposals will be taken up by the council and the commission and turned into concrete action. the european union should put in place tools to better anticipate restructuring, adapt responses and strengthen the role of the social partners. increased attention to smes, the creation of a fund for adjustment to globalisation, the right to lifelong learning, etc. are all ways of showing citizens that the european union is close to their concerns and shares their concern for genuine social cohesion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on restructuring and employment, which proposes financial means and an increased role for the social partners as well as tools for analysing and anticipating restructuring. the causes of restructuring are varied, defensive or offensive, but the effects on employees are always the same, namely the variable of adjustment of the strategies of industrial groups. the european union's approach to this problem in order to anticipate the consequences of restructuring on employees is commendable and necessary, but it is the duty of the european union to define a dynamic economic and industrial policy, concerned with the preservation and creation of jobs for european citizens as well as social and territorial cohesion. i therefore regret that the european union itself is promoting competition between member states by allowing social and fiscal dumping.
in writing. i'll be at syndicat in the vosges this afternoon. it is an emblematic event of the consequences of the policies decided in brussels. the seb group is closing a production unit there, as competition with low-priced chinese imports has become unbearable. more than 400 employees are still on the hook, not to mention the subcontractors who lose one of their main clients and will also have to lay off. it's a job pool that's been destroyed. however, the seb group is doing well. his profits are growing. he's established himself abroad, buying up brands... but closing factories in france. because it is caught between bureaucratic and financial constraints - directly or indirectly european - and the savage global competition negotiated by the eu, it cannot do otherwise. it was not seb that set the rules of the game: it was brussels. today, in an attempt to curb the logical consequences of european competition policies (restructuring, relocation, etc.), the cottigny report proposes a list of bureaucratic measures which will not solve the problem but, on the contrary, will amplify and accelerate it. the whole logic must be changed, starting with the cult of 'unfettered' competition, combined with the multiplication of regulatory and fiscal constraints. it would help the job.
in writing. the lisbon 'strategy', which is supposed to offer us a bright future, will be a bitter failure and it is not a few additional support funds that will save those left behind in an industrial sector which in my region of nord-pas-de-calais, has seen its jobs destroyed for nothing. a sacrifice that will not have exported economic and social happiness elsewhere in the world. in addition to charity, we do not need a second management report which seeks to correct the mistakes of the european commission. the destruction of jobs in france and in the enlarged europe will continue, despite the production of tons of paper, which only expresses our impotence and our submission to the rules of unbridled globalisation and the ultra-liberal approach of the europeanists. europe is also sick of a neo-marxism which wants more state interventionism, adding the european bureaucracy to our national bureaucracy already characterized by its administrative burdens and stifling fiscalism. our livelihoods are fleeing, replaced by mass immigration, the negative contribution of which is an unbearable economic and social burden. we need economic nationalism, the re-establishment of customs and tariff frontiers, community preference in europe, protection and national preference in france.
in writing. the law of the sexes in the resolutions of this parliament on the european councils in preparation is a litany of wishes for the attention of governments and the commission. the common denominator is that they never take on the responsibilities of european construction in the difficulties our countries are experiencing, and always call for more intervention from brussels in the policies of the member states. the european union cannot be saved by brussels, because most of the problems mentioned in this text originate there. we are now at the point where the dysfunctions caused by the liberalisation of the internal energy market, which is the aim of brussels and is based on the one and only sacrosanct competition, are leading members of parliament to call for a common, or even a single, energy policy, whereas this area of intervention does not exist in the treaties, and for good reason: the opposition of governments, aware of the strategic importance of this sector and of their divergent interests. the general impression is that the european construction as it stands today is an end in itself, that it feeds on the negative consequences of its mistakes. we must end this vicious cycle.
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on saturday the union's foreign ministers redefined the european perspective for the western balkans and made it clear that the ultimate objective of the stabilisation and association process currently under way with these countries was full membership of the european union. they have thus gone further than the 2003 thessaloniki declaration, which spoke of the great challenge of integrating the five balkan countries and their eventual accession to the union. the ump meps share this vision and perspective and are convinced that without the balkans, european unification is incomplete. they also share the view that this will be a long road, full of obstacles, but above all they ask that, for the balkans as for any other enlargement prospect, the real questions be clearly asked. what are the real questions? firstly, does the european union have the capacity to absorb these countries? i would remind you that this is one of the copenhagen criteria, a criterion too often forgotten: financial, institutional, but also political capacity. are our member states and their peoples ready to welcome other member states into the union, and if so, when and how? another question: another member of the union, france, has amended its constitution and made it compulsory to hold a popular consultation on any further enlargement, following those of romania, bulgaria and croatia. our partners are free to welcome this or to regret it, but this is now the institutional reality. finally, the ump meps have been calling for years for a thorough debate within the european union on the borders of europe. it is high time that this debate took place! we must face reality and make a mature choice about the future of the european union, in terms of its political content and geographical borders. let's take responsibility for this.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you for this exciting and certainly tense debate, which will also be of importance to the council. ladies and gentlemen, i come from a country which, by all available figures and figures, has benefited very much from the last enlargement. nevertheless, the attitude of the population towards the european union and the enlargement issue is very critical. so let me make a few personal remarks in this context. there will be no europe without borders. europe without frontiers does not exist. but europe has always been a political project. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the common will of the participants in this community of values and rights will be decisive. it is us, and, as in democracies, of course, it is the people. so where are we now? on a more sober note, far-reaching political decisions were taken on 3 october last year. we are now in a period of quiet work with our partners in the world. i would like to make three comments on the geographical aspects of the balkans: what's the point? what are we working on? i am convinced that the european union must be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and i am convinced that the european union must be able to play a leading role in the negotiations on the future of the union. the balkans cannot be left out of the european picture. we must once again make clear where the added value lies for us, for our people, but also for the people of the balkans, an added value in the rule of law, in security, in economic opportunities. on the subject of turkey, which has been raised several times: the commission and the council are not only addressing the progress in the reform process in turkey in the current procedure, but also the specific shortcomings, including the shortcomings in the area of freedom of religion and freedom of expression. we did that at our troika meeting. a word on ukraine: i was recently with commissioner benita ferrero-waldner on a troika mission to ukraine. the same message here as i gave there: europe, the european union wants a stable, a confident, a successful ukraine. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. we have a good and useful tool in the european neighbourhood policy, in the action plan which is about to be reviewed for the first time during the austrian presidency. we also have great potential, for example, through a deeper agreement which could include a broad free trade agreement.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to begin by imparting to you some breaking news: the decisions of late 2005 have created a solid political framework for our enlargement policy for 2006 to 2010, and in some cases even further. for instance, the accession negotiations with turkey are likely to take 10 to 15 years. i do not expect anyone seriously to question our existing commitments in south-east europe because it is really a matter of our own security and stability that we can enhance peace, democracy and increase prosperity in that very sensitive area. we now have a consolidated and sufficiently demanding enlargement agenda. the enlargement train is no bullet train, no tgv, no eurostar; it is a normal train or, in some cases, even a local train, but, most importantly, this train is moving, it is in the process and is thereby transforming the countries that are in the immediate neighbourhood of the european union. concerning the borders of europe, the commission works on the basis of article 49 of the treaty on european union, which states that any european country that respects and applies the european values of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms may apply for membership of the union. that does not mean that every european country must apply or that the eu must accept every country, but at the same time it means that it is not sensible to close the door forever by drawing a line across the map to define europe once and for all, which would seriously damage our possibilities of having a beneficial influence and strategic leverage in our immediate neighbourhood. meanwhile, although no final borders of the union have yet been determined, the eu is developing other forms of partnership and cooperation with our neighbouring countries, for instance in the form of the european neighbourhood policy, which can be further developed and upgraded. a few comments and points have been made concerning absorption capacity. i would like to give a very brief historical overview. that concept was first explicitly mentioned in copenhagen in 1993 when the european council stated that the union’s capacity to absorb new members, while maintaining the momentum of european integration, is also an important consideration in the general interests of both the union and the candidate countries. that concept and its consequences have been examined regularly by the commission. in its agenda 2000 – and i am happy to refer to that because i was a member of the steering group for agenda 2000, which was adopted in 1997 – the commission examined the impact of the accession of central and eastern european countries from two angles: its impact on eu policies such as agriculture or regional policy, and its budgetary consequences. as a result, this work led to the setting of critical parameters in the negotiations that followed, in the decisions of march 1999 at the berlin summit and in 2003, when the countries of eastern and central europe were allowed to join the european union. this facilitated the accession of eu-10 and, by those means, we successfully combined our historic mission of reunifying the european continent and taking care of the practical considerations, which are also of concern to our citizens today. later on, we examined that concept during the accession negotiations, in some chapters in particular, such as that on the free movement of persons and the financial chapters, and more recently the commission also examined that concept in our 2004 issues paper on questions arising from the turkish accession perspective. i would recommend this paper of october 2004 to all members of the european parliament. it is still worth reading and outlines very well the broad consequences of possible turkish accession to the union if, one day, turkey meets all the conditions for accession. thus, the upsurge in capacity is an important concept, and it has also been referred to in the negotiating frameworks for turkey and croatia. i can assure you that we bear this in mind throughout the negotiations, and it is also a leading concept in our strategy document of last november. we base our work on that concept and it is a very important consideration. finally, referring to what mr eurlings said about deepening and widening, i belong to the camp that thinks that the deepening of political integration is indispensable in order to make the european union more effective and democratic. we must make the union function better, and that was and is the purpose of the constitutional treaty. therefore, we need a constitutional debate and, in time – sooner rather than later – we need to decide on how we reform our structures so that they are more effective and democratic and so that the european union can have more clout in external relations, in common foreign and security policy and in preserving the security of its own citizens against international crime and terrorism. that must be done in the near future, not in the distant future – not in 10 to 15 years, for instance, when turkey might be able to join – for the sake of europe, and we need it already for the european union of 25 or 27 member states. therefore, rather than talk about absorption capacity, i would prefer to talk about the functioning capacity of the current european union to ensure that we serve our citizens better in terms of both policies and institutions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on mergers in the internal market.
mr president, commissioner, you want the market to function properly. in that case, you must abandon this frantic liberalism which you are proposing and which is clearly not serving its purpose. what we need is a merger strategy that works, but is also based on a well-regulated industrial policy strategy, which is also based on business strategies that respect environmental objectives and social standards. i think the president-in-office was right when he said that medium- and long-term objectives must also be incorporated, which unrestrained liberalism cannot achieve. moreover, if the apa directive is to work properly, it makes a lot of reference to the member states. well, perhaps we should also consider revising it - it is written in the text - so that the power of the shareholders is not that blind power which, without regard to any interest, or the state in which it intervenes, or the industrial strategy at work, or the interest of the employees, can, here or there, destroy companies which, over the years, have accumulated a know-how and a business strategy which can also be put to the service of a european industrial policy. (applause from the left)
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have not much more to add to what i said at the beginning. i have made a clear statement on behalf of the council on competition in the interests of consumers. mr lehne asked the council to deal with this issue at the beginning of the debate. mr radwan also addressed the council in this spirit. i can only say that the council will of course act where it is called upon to do so, where it has the competence and the power to do so, and in accordance with the provisions of the treaties in force. i'm going to take this opportunity, if you'll allow me, to do a little self-promotion. i would like to draw attention to an event which the austrian presidency is organising together with the finnish presidency and which may be of interest to those present. on the occasion of the now traditional european competition day, austria and finland, the two council presidencies of 2006, will hold an event in vienna on 19 june 2006 entitled 'competition law and its environment: interfaces and new trends'. a focus of this event will be on current trends in mergers and merger control. the theme 'do mergers keep what they promise' will discuss the extent to which the merger regulation has brought a new approach, using examples of a merger and the situation in an economy in transition. we will be pleased to welcome commissioner neelie kroes and minister bartenstein to this event. i can imagine that this will be of some interest.
member of the commission. mr president, i am grateful for the initiative of the austrian presidency in organising, together with the forthcoming finnish presidency, a very important day in june: competition day. with regard to other matters, i am impressed by the priority that has been given to the smes. the issue has been approached in a way that really represents a great step forward. the presidency has not only fulfilled an agenda, but has also been very pragmatic in trying to find solutions. we are aware that it is not only members of parliament who are interested in the issue but others too, especially the smes themselves. i am very grateful to all the members who, in their remarks, gave quite clear backing to the policy of the commission. i also take into account that not everybody agrees on the policy. however, i sincerely hope that we are all aware that open and competitive markets are key drivers for growth and jobs in europe. it was rightly mentioned that this is what we promised to deliver in the lisbon agenda: more jobs, better jobs and economic growth. as many of you have recognised, an internal market has enormous potential. we have to let our businesses and industries exploit it to the full. that is what was decided. it includes, by the way, the process of corporate restructuring. that is looking promising and it is not only a matter of looking at the internal market itself, but also of looking at the position of the internal market outside europe. for we have to be aware that there is a global competitiveness and if we are serious in saying that we want to play that game then we need to be aware that we have to restructure in some circumstances. while the effects of individual mergers must be assessed on a case-by-case basis in accordance – there is no doubt about this – with the relevant competition rules, mergers between companies based in different member states are likely to increase competition. this in turn leads to concrete benefits for european consumers in the form of lower prices and wider choice, and that is why the commission would look with great concern at any unjustified interference in this process by national governments. as regards the free movement of capital rightly mentioned by a number of members, the commission will uphold the single market rules, as you expect us to do. we will be tough against member states which fail to implement correctly the provisions of the ec sectoral legislation introducing competition into markets such as energy, telecoms, financial services or banking. as regards individual mergers, we will enforce the merger regulation in a fair, objective and coherent way. you will recall that under the merger regulation the commission has exclusive competence for controlling, on competition grounds, the effects of mergers with a community dimension. i take careful note of the concerns expressed here about specific cases in the energy sector. i have no information at this point so i cannot discuss them. i say once again that we control mergers on competition grounds only, and that is the basis on which the court reviews our decisions. as you know, article 21 of the merger regulation also gives us a tool for addressing any undue interference by national authorities in relation to corporate restructuring. i would add that i will not hesitate to use this tool wherever it is necessary. regarding the two-thirds rule for mergers touched upon by some members, will that rule for mergers be amended? the split of competences due to the two-thirds rule may lead to inconsistency in the approach to substantially similar mergers. that is basic. i think this seems particularly inappropriate in the energy sector, where an eu-wide policy on liberalisation is currently being implemented – it is not ready yet but it is currently being implemented – and where different players should be treated in a similar way across member states. so, no different treatment in one member state than in another. however, the commission is at a very early stage of its thought process. the first step is a consultation with stakeholders in the member states on the question of whether it is advisable to modify the two-thirds rule. i am aware that we need the backing of the council and i am aware how difficult that will be. that is a possible instrument and i am in favour of tackling it, but that is not my goal. the goal is to ensure fair and equal treatment, rather than one being more equal than another. so, if there is a possibility of arriving at that policy, from whatever direction, then it will be d-day for this part of my policy. the commission has a duty to enforce the rules wherever appropriate. as guardian of the treaties we will do our job fairly but firmly, as was rightly said by the austrian presidency. i thank you again for your support; i am grateful for it. we badly need to do our job as quickly as possible, for it is indeed quite hectic in merger country.
the debate is closed.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i too would like to condemn the attack launched yesterday by the idf forces on the jericho prison. such actions can only encourage the radicalization of hamas's policy and thereby complicate already tense relations in the region. in the light of the violations of international law and human rights and the democratic challenges in the region, it is regrettable that the declarations and commitments resulting from the barcelona summit were not accompanied by a stronger and more concrete commitment to the promotion of human rights and democracy. freedom of expression is a universal right, both vital and essential to the development of any democracy, and the european union should spare no effort to defend and promote it. this is not just about the aftermath of the publication of the cartoons. in algeria, those who attack the president are prosecuted for defamation and sentenced to prison terms or fines. this is the case of ali dilem, the south-west correspondent of algiers, bachir el arabi and hakim laâlam, the columnist of the soir d'algérie. mohamed benchicou, the editor of matin, has been imprisoned in el-harrach prison since 14 june 2004. despite his deteriorating health, the authorities refused to treat him. nearly 50 press offences have been prosecuted or are being prosecuted against him. he is a prisoner of opinion, not a prisoner of the common law, as some claim! in tunisia, whose delegation will soon chair the apem, mr abbou, a lawyer and human rights defender, has been in prison for more than a year following the publication of two critical articles. he had already sewed his mouth shut to signal his disagreement with his imprisonment and conditions. he is now considering going on a hunger strike. in morocco, aboubakr jamai and fahd iraki of the newspaper l'hebdomadaire were sentenced to pay the equivalent of 143 years of the moroccan minimum wage. the february 2, 2006 edition of the spanish daily el mundo was banned from circulation because of an article written by ali lmrabet. the journalists of the telquel weekly were also convicted of defamation. i would like to conclude by calling for greater consideration of human rights and democracy in the discussions at apem, as we are being urged to do by the 2005 sakharov prize, reporters without borders.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, i take this opportunity to congratulate the bureau of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly on the communiqué it has published on the famous cartoons. the figure of muhammad is what we might call the point of communion of an islam which is, moreover, more fragile and more diverse, more divided even than we believe. to aim at that figure was to aim at the heart. we could not help but know this, just as we could not help but think about the consequences of what we were doing, that is, fuelling the conflict between civilizations. it is not clear just who is to benefit from fueling these conflicts. i'd like to ask the question. we europeans certainly do not, and certainly not france, which is the leading power on the mediterranean and whose influence depends on a strict balance between its continental european policy on the one hand and its mediterranean and african policy on the other. this statement is not without a double concern: on the one hand, apem and euromed are still far too fragile ships thrown into the sea. the european union is not only fragile in terms of resources but fragile above all in terms of its intellectual inspiration, because it seems to me that it is itself caught up in a very eurocentric conception of democracy and human rights - we have just had another example - which not only has colonial overtones but, moreover, prevents - as we also saw in barcelona in december - from dealing with the essential issues, namely economic, financial and commercial cooperation and the management of migration flows. i would also like to speak, contrary to what the commission has just said, of cooperation rather than a free trade area, which seems to me to be a very dangerous formula. the second concern is that the theme of civilizations is an old self-evidence, which we have known for our part since charles martel: we have not waited for american thinkers to remind us of it. it is foolish to be lulled into the illusions of globalism to be surprised, all of a sudden, that civilizations are not interchangeable and men even less so and that coexistence between one and the other is not a given. this kind of huntington-style evidence is obviously intended to convey another message, namely that we are all involved in what would be a "west" - between countless quotation marks ... - whose capital would necessarily be washington, with europeans having to follow the war-mongering of the united states. the very theme of the west is, as we know, an ideological fraud. it is precisely because civilizations are in constant collision that we need a policy, that we need policy, that we need a will to live together, in short, as apem and euromed provide the framework. let us begin by strengthening them, because they seem to me to be becoming more and more fragile as they become more and more necessary every year.
mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, it is clear that the work of the barcelona summit has not lived up to expectations in the face of the enormous challenges. we must therefore look to the future with greater determination and achieve results now. in view of the latest events, the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly is the ideal venue to strengthen our partnership, based on dialogue, exchange and mutual understanding. more than ever, apem needs to be strengthened and supported in its action. the establishment of peace and security must be the main objective of our decisions and must be accompanied by concrete action. there is urgency in the face of a difficult local situation and an increasingly uncertain regional context. today i consider that the european union has a great responsibility and i say this as the chairman of the political affairs committee of apem, which, with a palestinian and an israeli vice-chairman, wants to place the resolution of the middle east conflict at the heart of our work. the union must speak with one voice and condemn the perversity of the acts which are fuelling the escalation of violence and undermining an already fragile peace process. it is regrettable that the palestinian president, mr mahmoud abbas, has not been able to speak to this house in the wake of the events in jericho, and i would like to express my concern here about this situation. we have heard you, madam commissioner. we give you a statement of your convictions and your will. we at apem and with president borrell are determined to move forward. i think it's time we stopped disappointing the people.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the european parliament's delegation for relations with the mashreq countries, i naturally agree with what has just been said about the recent events in palestine and, in particular, with the condemnation of the action against the jericho prison, which is certainly not in the interests of peace and democracy. i would like to mention one particular issue which contributes to the dialogue between civilizations and which has been the subject of a working group of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, namely the question of the anna lindh foundation. the institution is already facing a number of structural difficulties. many partner countries have not yet structured their national networks and there are delays in the payment of contributions. the greatest uncertainty is the sustainability of its financing after 2008. it is therefore urgent to remedy the difficulties mentioned by ensuring the financial sustainability of the anna lindh foundation, by ensuring the visibility of the actions carried out by the foundation and their priorities, by relaxing the european rules for financing projects, by creating a european television medium in the arabic language, by ensuring an equal place for the three working languages of this structure in the communication of the foundation. in conclusion, the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, but also the council and the european commission, must take this matter seriously.
the agenda calls for the statements by the council and the commission on the 62nd session of the united nations commission on human rights (unchr, geneva).
for the greens/efa group mr president, i welcome the european parliament's foresight, which organized this debate a few hours after the resolution was adopted and which will itself adopt one tomorrow. we can say together that we are very pleased and relieved to see this resolution adopted. of course, not everything is perfect: the members of the council will not be elected by a two-thirds majority; some groups have seen their number of seats increased; i am not going to go into that. the resolution adopted nevertheless sets up a permanent human rights council with great qualities. the members shall be elected by secret ballot by the general assembly. the council may meet throughout the year, but not less than three times a year; be able to respond rapidly to human rights crisis situations; it shall preserve the special mechanisms of the united nations; it guarantees the special role of ngos, even though, as far as the ngos are concerned, and i stress this, a reform of the united nations is necessary to ensure better representation of independent ngos, including those which are not recognised. the council shall establish a system of ex officio review of the human rights situation in the member states of the council. these are all very positive points. the council also introduces the possibility of suspending, by a two-thirds majority vote of the members of the assembly, a state which is guilty of human rights violations. these were the main demands of parliament and the european union as a whole, and they were very much emphasized by each of us. the 62nd session of the commission on human rights is still to come. it will most likely be a transitional committee, mainly responsible for forwarding the files to the council. i would urge the member states, however, to remain vigilant and to ensure that important issues, such as the adoption of the draft international convention for the protection of all persons who are victims of enforced disappearance, the declaration on indigenous peoples and the renewal of mandates, such as that of the special representative for human rights defenders, are voted on.
i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure, four motions for resolutions. i would like to conclude by saying that i am very pleased with the report. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on the following reports: the report by friedrich-wilhelm graefe zu baringdorf, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation on traditional specialities guaranteed for agricultural products and foodstuffs (com (2005) 0694 c6-0026/2006 2005/0270(cns) (a6-0033/2006), and the report by friedrich-wilhelm graefe zu baringdorf, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs (com (2005) 0698 c6-0027/2006 2005/0275 (cns) (a6-0034/2006). i repeat to the speakers in this debate what i said in the previous debate, namely that we have an extremely long evening sitting and that i shall therefore be absolutely ruthless about respecting speaking time. so spare me the need to take corrective action by holding to the time of speech that you are officially allotted. this is not the case for commissioner neelie kroes, who i shall give the floor to immediately.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and my colleagues in the committee on agriculture and rural development on this report, which has the merit of emphasizing a fundamental notion: european agriculture will only survive through quality. the defence of labels and other protected names, which alone can guarantee the competitiveness of european products on a global market, must therefore be at the heart of all the european union's political action, particularly in international forums such as the wto. i come from a region where there are more than 30 products protected by the pdo, pgi and gst schemes. these names are undoubtedly an asset for the producers who benefit from them. we have always applied this same logic to another sector, which is not directly concerned by this text, but which needs the protection and support of europe. i am of course talking about the wine sector, which represents tens of thousands of jobs in my region, the south of france, hundreds of thousands of jobs for europe and is currently in a serious crisis. if nothing is done, including at european level, europe risks losing its soul.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights on the functioning of the legal systems by giuseppe gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o0003/2006 b6-0005/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 23 march, in brussels.
the agenda calls for the commission statement on the preparations for the cop-mop meeting on biological diversity and security to be held in curitiba, brazil.
i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure, a motion for a resolution (see minutes) to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday.
mr president, i rise to ask for an amendment to the minutes. i did, in fact, fail to sign the attendance list yesterday. of course, as the voting minutes show, i was there and even took part in the debate on the cottigny report. thank you for noting that, mr president.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by welcoming the decision, as others have done, not to merge the 'health' and 'consumers' strands of the community action programme in the field of health and consumer protection. apart from the different nature of the european union's competence in these two areas, health policy cannot be regarded as a commodity for everyday consumption. if i support the creation of an e-health area, it should not be an opportunity to experiment with an information policy that does not say its name. i thank mr trakatellis for proposing a substantial increase in the budget for this programme, an increase which is necessary to achieve our objectives and our actions. higher funding would have been preferable in view of the challenges to be faced, but we will already have some satisfaction if the council agrees to increase health appropriations in the framework of the financial perspective 2007-13. i would like to emphasize two priorities. first, we need to improve cooperation and coordination in the field of health to be able to respond more rapidly to crossborder health threats. if that were the case, we could have prevented the spread of chikungunya today. this should encourage the european union, the member states and pharmaceutical laboratories to have a system of surveillance and research in relation to this type of disease, which is rare in the eyes of the world's population but catastrophic locally. second priority: to achieve the goal of better health for all europeans, the impact of environmental and social living conditions on health must be taken into account. to treat some diseases effectively, we must address their root causes. it is well known that people in situations of exclusion or precariousness are more prone to certain diseases than others. we must help the most vulnerable. if the states made rapid progress in both these areas, our citizens would feel a little more protected by the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank the members for a very interesting debate. i will make a few brief comments. first of all, on the issue of the agencies, i totally agree that both the ecdc and eiss are very important policies, but they should not be at the cost of the other health policies. unless we have increased financing, we will be faced with the impossible choice of either funding fully the two agencies and doing absolutely nothing else, or splitting the money, which i am not sure would be of benefit either. that is an important issue. with regard to funding, i should like to thank the members for their support. given the way that we work in the union in the area of health, which involves mostly non-legislative initiatives, more money is required. when you legislate, it is much easier to send the proposals that have been adopted and expect member states to implement them. but when you want to take other initiatives of coordination, of recommendations, or of exchange of best practices, then you need more money. i agree that we will not expand into the competence of the member states. we will emphasise and target areas where we can have european added value by taking action at european level. that is in fact what the programme is doing. health services fall within the competence of member states. there is no question about that. but in a union of solidarity, i do not believe we can accept the health inequalities that exist today in the european union, where we have a life expectancy variation of more than ten years from one member state to the other. patient mobility is an important issue. it is a reality that we have to deal with. we will produce proposals in that respect. but the target should be that patients be offered a high level of treatment where they live, where their families are, where they speak the language. that can be achieved through programmes of centres of reference, exchange of best practices, coordinating member states, coordinating healthcare systems and working together and achieving the highest level of service. i repeat: that would not interfere with the issues of competence and subsidiarity. we are working not only with ‘blockbusting’ medicine; on the contrary, i would like to remind you that there is provision in the programme for rare diseases, which is also followed by orphan drugs. we are promoting that area as well. as regards tobacco, i could not agree more, and i would be very happy if we ever have the opportunity to have a specific debate on the tobacco area. the issue of subsidies is correct, but i would also like to add that subsidies will eventually be phased out and that is a decision which has already been taken, but the tobacco fund that we financed in european-level campaigns gets money through those subsidies. once the subsidies finish, we will have no more money left for europe-wide campaigns on tobacco, so that, again, is an impossible situation and i hope we come up with a solution in the near future. as regards alcohol, i would like to remind you that by the end of this year, or some time after the summer, we will produce the community strategy proposal for a european strategy on alcohol. i have noted the comments made about pesticides. on financing, i would like to address mrs doyle: i raise an accounting error – or, at least, i hope it is an accounting error – because i cannot really believe that it was intentionally decided to reduce the funding of health and consumer protection. i hope in the overall arrangement that somebody noticed the impact that compromise would have on those two specific areas, which means it can be corrected. if it was intentional, then i very much regret that and i cannot say much more than that. on the issue of complementary medicine, i have noted the comments made. we feel that this is more of an area of subsidiarity. the commission proposal does not deal with specific medicine as such. regarding environment and health – i am addressing mrs ries – we already have measures under the current programme and they will continue under a new programme especially as regards environmental determinants on health. coming to the various diseases, i can assure you that cancer is our priority among other diseases, but we have included a new strand which provides for the reduction of disease burden, but we believed that in a seven-year programme we needed more flexibility, so we do not list specific diseases; however, that can be done through different decisions that can be taken in the course of the programme. by listing some diseases, you effectively exclude others, so we wanted a more flexible approach on this. i would also like to remind the members that i will be bringing forward a proposal on the health strategy, which will be more detailed and will elaborate on the programme based on the funding that we will eventually obtain; so there will be a fully-fledged, broader strategy and that will be done together with the stakeholders and citizens. in conclusion, i would like once again to thank mr trakatellis for the excellent job he has done, as well as the members of the committee. i thank you again for your support in this very important policy area. (applause)
the debate is closed. we all thank professor trakatellis once again for his excellent work. the vote will take place today at the voting time. annex - position of the commission
the agenda calls for the report by marianne thyssen, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing a programme of community action in the field of health and consumer protection (2007-2013 consumer strand (com (2005) 0115 c6-0225/2005 2005/0042b (cod)) (a6-0032/2006) before giving the commissioner the floor, you will note, ladies and gentlemen, that we have only about 20 minutes left for debate before our voting time. you will understand that in these circumstances we will not be able to complete the debate. i would like to say this now: i shall be forced to suspend the debate.
mrs thyssen, your request for a postponement of the vote will be put to the house shortly, at the very beginning of the voting session, by the vice-president who will be replacing me.
i understand your point very well, mr rack, but i should like to point out that it was at the request of the rapporteur herself, who, as i understand it, will not be able to be here this afternoon, that we decided to start the debate on this report this morning. we shall now hear the rapporteurs' views.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, just like their health, which we have just discussed, the four hundred and sixty million europeans want their consumption to be protected more and more. in the context of past and present health crises, or in the context of globalisation, which no longer guarantees the traceability of all products, european consumer protection policy therefore makes perfect sense. the internal market cannot function properly without consumer confidence. by showing citizens that it is genuinely concerned about their health and safety and that it is genuinely empowered to act, the european union strengthens the political legitimacy of its citizens. so i thank mrs thyssen for the quality of her report. the imco committee has proposed a budget of eur 233 million over seven years for the specific action 'consumer protection'. the budget, which is an increase on the current programme, is essential if the ambitious objectives of the programme are to be achieved, given the new needs linked to enlargement. i hope that the budget will not be affected by deep cuts, even if the financial perspective is minimal, because what european consumers need is a budget that is commensurate with the policies they expect in response to their concerns. what a budgetary diet the european union would not allow! i regret, however, that the amendments on information and the fight against counterfeiting adopted in cobu have not been taken up by the imco committee. from an economic point of view, counterfeiting is a real scourge, both for health and for consumers. it affects major brands, smes and all sectors of economic and human activity: tampered medicines, defective household appliances, non-compliant spare parts, dangerous toys, poisoned cosmetics, to name just a few. i think it is important, as part of a consumer protection policy, to inform potential customers of counterfeiters better about the dangers they face; i would therefore like to emphasize once again this aspect of consumer protection, even though the fight against counterfeiting is included in other actions of this programme.
ladies and gentlemen, i am faced with a small problem which i shall briefly explain. we have just heard the rapporteurs' opinions from the various committees concerned. i am supposed to stop the debate at this point, before the speaking time for the groups. however, the speaker speaking for the epp, our excellent colleague mr stubb, who was unable to be here this afternoon, has asked to speak now, given that he has three minutes to speak. in the interests of fairness, i must ask the other speakers on behalf of the groups, namely mrs patrie for the pse group, mrs malmström for the alde group, mrs svensson for the gue/ngl group, mr batten for the ind/dem group, mr kristovskis for the uen group and mr mölzer as a non-attached member, if they agree to allow mr stubb to speak this morning. if any of the colleagues i have just mentioned object to this, i shall not be able to give mr stubb the floor. on the other hand, if there is no objection, our colleague will speak for three minutes. does any of the six colleagues i have just quoted object to mr stubb speaking now? no, they're not, and i thank them for that. mr stubb will therefore be the last speaker this morning on this debate, which will resume at 3 p.m.
thank you for letting the hippopotamus into the river. the debate on mrs thyssen's report is adjourned. he'll be back at 3:00 this afternoon. annex - position of the commission the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission can accept amendments nos 13, 26, 28, 34, 35, 42, 43, 44, 47, 48 and 54. amendments nos 10, 41 and 50 can be accepted in part. the commission rejects amendments nos 14, 17, 36, 37, 38, 39, 49, 56, 57, 58 and 59. the commission rejects on grounds of split amendments nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 15, 18, 19, 20, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32, 40, 45, 46, 51, 52, 53 and 55. the commission rejects/can accept consumer content in: amendments 8, 12 and 16. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 33 as there is a need for reformulation. (amendments underlined are new amendments tabled by political groups on 8 march 2005.)
mr president, even if it is not entirely in line with the rules, i admit, would it be possible to vote separately on amendment no 3 to the first report by mr graefe zu baringdorf? i would also like to say at once that, as regards the second report by mr graefe zu baringdorf, would it be possible to vote separately on amendment no 18? these are amendments which are part of the committee's package of amendments.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. i am particularly concerned about the high level of microbial resistance to antibiotics. this is a real threat. it is therefore necessary to increase research in this area and to develop information to explain to patients the dangers of inappropriate use of these medicines. one of the great assets of the european union is the exchange of data, particularly in the field of rare diseases. i expect that a further effort will be made to promote synergies in this area. this action programme also provides an opportunity to start thinking about patient mobility. there are aberrant situations in europe. i met a patient in strasbourg who, to treat the particular type of cancer she has, has to go to marseille, where the same type of therapy is used 5 km from her home. but this institution is in kehl, germany. in addition, financing to match the changes is essential. finally, there is one point which i cannot support: the issue of complementary or alternative medicine. these practices are not medicine, but an alternative to medicine. the european union must concentrate on the essentials and is therefore not prepared to participate in the financing of such practices.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs because it was becoming urgent to adapt our system of protection for producers of regional specialities to the constraints of the world trade organisation as demonstrated by the negotiations in hong kong (china) last december. we must be very combative on this issue because some countries, notably the united states of america and australia, which are the originators of these attacks, will not give us gifts. we are obliged to improve the access of third country nationals to the european system and to place them on an equal footing with union citizens as regards applications and opposition rights. in any case, the european union must defend geographical indications with all its strength in the world trade organisation, because they are a decisive means of creating added value. finally, in the application and in the face of nearly 300 applications still pending, the services of the european commission must act more quickly in the recognition of these protections.
in writing. inspired by the french aocs, the european legal tool protecting our agricultural products, with labels such as pgi, is at the heart of the agricultural conflict between europe and the anglo-saxon world. for the united states, agriculture must be industrial with logos, brands, including wine. for europe, agriculture is first and foremost a qualitative, family-based approach with protected soils in their geographical origin. the symbol is wine, which is fermented and a sign of civilization, whereas in australia it's an industrial commodity. at the wto, the opposition between the united states and europe, the southern hemisphere and europe, the anglo-saxon world and europe, is a real clash of civilizations between the sickle and the mcdo. in hong kong, the commission has not even brought up the multilateral register of designations of origin to protect our farmers' wines against those of traders. in geneva at the end of april, to continue to lower our agricultural tariff protections and to allow the dumping of 1.2 million tonnes of meat from the southern hemisphere, the australian liquids, industrially coloured, woody, fruity, sweetened and called wines, is to destroy our agricultural identity of which pgi is an instrument.
mr president, the preservation of biodiversity is an exciting subject. my group, the greens/efa, is very pleased with the resolution which was voted by a very, very large majority in the european parliament and is also very pleased that parliament is sending a delegation to the eighth conference on biodiversity, three years after kuala lumpur, to advocate the preservation of biodiversity. in this context, let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of some basic elements that we too often forget here in this parliament. food security depends on three factors: water, soil and plant genetic diversity, and only 12 plant varieties, including wheat, rice, maize and potatoes, provide the bulk of 80% of the world's energy needs. the temptation is therefore great for the industry to secure a monopoly on seeds through the application of biotechnology technologies. we therefore call on the council of the european union, which will be present, to support the current moratorium on the testing and marketing of genetically modified varieties in order to restrict their use. in other words, ladies and gentlemen, the terminator must not be revived in the name of some biotechnological innovation. in addition, to limit the invasiveness of biotechnologically produced varieties to our ecosystems, biological diversity must be protected by protocols that require researchers to carry out their manipulations in a confined environment. in conclusion, it should be remembered that the fight against the erosion of biodiversity involves a conservation approach. of course, this is not about putting biological diversity back in the test tube, but about allowing the indigenous peoples, whom we also support, to continue to exercise their traditional knowledge and their sovereignty over genetic resources. we must finally acknowledge that here too, the nerve of war is money. i would therefore also ask you to support the global environment facility. we know very well that, in the case of natura 2000, if the european union does not allocate money to this network, biodiversity will not be preserved. similarly, if we do not give money to the global environment facility, the preservation of nature will once again be a matter of fine words in the house.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank mrs thyssen for her report and for her spirit of cooperation. although it was adopted unanimously in the competent parliamentary committee, the pes group requested a debate on the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, we should recall our support for the existence of two separate action programmes, one for public health and the other for consumer protection. secondly, as regards the horizontal objectives of the programme, the socialist group considers that the existence of individual and collective redress in some member states is a positive step forward for consumers. that is the meaning of our amendment no 55. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the establishment of a vademecum of existing consumer protection laws, regulations and practices in the member states and an evaluation of the implementation of community legislation at national level; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly, on the legislative measures to accompany this programme, i would like to speak specifically to commissioner kyprianou about the political and legislative measures which he has promised to present to us in the autumn, to specifically accompany this programme. the terms of the debate are known. how can action be taken at european level? should we give preference to european law or to self-regulation by economic actors? how can the emerging european consumer protection law be combined with older national laws, which often offer greater protection for citizens in some member states? for my part, as the mobility of our citizens increases, i believe that the role of european public authorities is to ensure the best possible protection of consumers. i am certainly not opposed to self-regulation initiatives, but these must be undertaken by the economic operators themselves and aim to improve the minimum standards set by the legislator. finally, we must be extremely vigilant about two issues related to today's debate. the first concerns discussions on the common reference framework for european contract law and the second concerns the extension of standardisation procedures to the services sector, including services which are the subject of collective preferences, such as social housing. i would like to make these remarks on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our group received the news about the eta communiqué about two hours ago, and we would like to make the following statement. this statement by eta shows two things. first, that democracies are right to resist terrorism. (applause) secondly, it shows that if we are right to resist terrorism, we must also be able to negotiate and talk. that is what has been done in northern ireland and that is what is being done in spain. i congratulate all the political forces in spain who have been able to resist and negotiate, since it is true that to stop the carnage one must be able to talk to one another. i therefore congratulate the spanish government, i congratulate all those who have had the strength to show that they are resisting, that they are not giving in but that they want to put an end to terrorism, and the end to terrorism always comes through negotiations. we also asked eta to send its ceasefire letter to hamas so that it could draw inspiration from it. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that the grand coalition is beginning to falter. that is always good for parliament. (applause from the centre) the second thing i would like to say is - and there is no need to get upset about it, because i think that mr poettering is simply right, even if he may have only just been enlightened here in the chamber, which would not be a bad thing, martin - that we, the european parliament, must discuss this situation and make a clear statement to belarus and to russia, because without putin, lukashenko would not be in power at all! if we do this tomorrow, we will have earned the stars of the european union.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our debate today is about taking stock and looking ahead, about reaching a consensus on the priority actions for 2007. it is a question of working together to prepare the ground for future action properly. the commission has placed the effective implementation of its policies at the heart of its objectives, but for this we need a real partnership between the european institutions. the 2005 report shows that the caricature of a paralysed europe was far from the truth. we have made considerable progress. the commission has focused on its objectives and has achieved a rate of implementation of close to 90% for its priority actions. the stability and growth pact, the revised social agenda and the sustainable development strategy have been given a new direction. but above all, i think we will see this week that the revision of the lisbon strategy for jobs and growth has marked a real turning point, finally giving it the tools to turn aspirations into reality. the hampton court summit helped to achieve a new consensus on the key elements of union action in a globalising world. it opened the door to the measures that are emerging today. i am thinking, for example, of a european energy policy and the european globalisation adjustment fund. the union has demonstrated its ability to respond quickly to needs after the tsunami or after the london bombings. it has also shown that it is able to work in unison: the european consensus on development, to which the european parliament also subscribes, is the expression of a genuine common approach. of course, our work is not finished. however, as regards the financial perspective, i believe we are closer than ever to an agreement. if we can find a solution very soon, we will still have enough time for most programmes to be in operation by the beginning of next year, which is particularly important for the less wealthy countries and regions of our continent. as for the future of the european debate, we can still take advantage of events and use this period to reach a real consensus on the direction to take. i believe we are on the right track: the annual progress report on the lisbon strategy, the green paper on energy policy, biofuels, the european institute of technology, the roadmap on gender equality are all major initiatives already on the agenda. so what about 2007? i believe that 2007 will be a key year for the achievement of the strategic objectives set by our commission for its mandate. our five-year strategic objectives - prosperity, solidarity, security - and of course their external impact, remain valid. they form a coherent policy framework to guide the action of the european union. they reflect the challenges facing europe and the main concerns of european citizens, which they seek to address. they will remain the cornerstone of the commission's action. i think they are a good basis for a new look at the direction our union should take. with the fiftieth anniversary of the treaty of rome in 2007, attention will rightly be focused on the european union's main values and overall objectives. the main target must continue to be sustainable growth to provide more and better jobs in europe. with a more positive macroeconomic outlook, we must seize every opportunity to accelerate reforms and put them into practice. i know that this parliament is committed to playing its role in a real partnership for growth and jobs. in 2007, several member states should be speeding up their preparations for adopting the euro. provided they meet the necessary conditions, in 2007 we shall see the accession of bulgaria and romania, and i look forward to their contribution to the european union. energy will continue to attract our attention. we will pay particular attention to the promotion of sustainable management and the protection of natural resources. we will make proposals for a european union maritime policy. we will follow up on the green paper on labour law. the year 2007 will also be the european year of equal opportunities for all. in the field of security and freedom, the main target will be the extension of the schengen area, migration and border controls and the fight against crime. health issues will remain central, with greater preventive efforts against pandemics. beyond our borders, we will ensure a proper follow-up to the doha round, progress in the stabilisation of the western balkans in particular in kosovo and completion of partnership agreements with the acp countries. as you can see, we will be very busy in 2007. the year 2007 will also see new directions for the second half of the commission's mandate. we shall be preparing for the future, with intensive work on the comprehensive review of the union's budget leading to a white paper in 2008-09. this review needs to be based on a profound reflection and must take the full range of views into account. this will naturally include the european parliament and i welcome your intention of close association with this process. let me also say a few words on our ability to deliver on these priorities. we need to translate them into practical actions and implement them through the most appropriate instruments. the commission has made progress in this direction. firstly, we have a strategic planning and programming cycle ensuring an effective and timely delivery of our priorities and concentrating our resources on these tasks. the commission states its intentions, consults on them, adopts its work programme and reports regularly on its implementation. however, we need to further strengthen the political relevance and substance of our discussion on our strategic planning and programming. secondly, we have implemented a range of instruments to promote better regulation and good governance, which i believe is having a real impact on the rigour of our work and the quality of our output. we have made significant efforts to carry out impact assessments on our major proposals. we have completed more than one hundred so far, and we will continue to improve their quality and ensure that they make a real difference in our decision-making process. the commission will also carry through its simplification agenda, covering various fields from environment to industry, the modernisation of labour law, the promotion of consumer rights or key internal market sectors. however, let us not forget that governance and better regulation are the shared responsibilities of all the european institutions and the member states. as i have said before, better regulation is crucially important for liberalising our economic potential, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. what our business needs in europe is a red carpet, not red tape. efforts must be pursued at all levels to show that european initiatives are well founded and add real value. in many areas be it at european or national level we do not need so many regulations. as montesquieu said in the best possible way and i shall say it in french: "unecessary laws weaken necessary laws". roughly translated, that means "useless laws weaken indispensable ones". this is the very principle of the good european tradition. so what are the next steps? the annual policy strategy decision forms the basis for our dialogue in view of preparing the commission's work programme for 2007. every commissioner now stands ready to discuss with committees the political priorities put forward in her or his area. it's crucial to take time away from the topic of the day in order to prepare for the future. i very much welcomed parliament's initiative last year to draw together the threads in its report. that had a real impact on this year's work program. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is putting this strategy forward in a spirit of partnership. i look forward to your views on where europe should devote its energies in 2007. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, in 2005 european citizens had the opportunity to tell us that they expected a lot from us, but also that they were wondering about their future and that of europe in a context of globalisation. the political strategy for 2007 must enable us to provide the right answers. but without an interinstitutional agreement, without financial perspectives, where are we going? we are in what i would call a situation of total hypocrisy. we want to discuss actions which are important for the europeans, while the council, which is always deaf to our arguments, hardly proposes any budgetary changes. our parliament will not give in on the financial perspective. the needs are enormous: training of young people, research, transport, health programmes, environment - it would be too long to list them all. mr president, you are talking about a possible next agreement, but i have not heard you say the word ambitious, ambitious agreement, so i remain sceptical. in the dialogue that is now beginning between us, you can count on the dynamism of our assembly to formulate its political priorities for 2007. i am also pleased to see that the european commission is finally realising that economic cohesion, solidarity and environmental protection are compatible with our objectives of growth and employment. you propose four priority areas: knowledge, enterprises, and in particular smes, employment and ageing, and energy. we must indeed represent the best of the knowledge society. we see what is happening in asia and we must not sit idly by. the european union will only succeed if it meets the challenge of knowledge, knowledge that is embodied in technical and industrial developments. as far as smes are concerned, we need to create a competitive regulatory environment and help our companies to better position themselves on global markets. you also intend to continue the cleansing of superfluous european laws, the so-called useless laws that you have just mentioned, which weaken the necessary laws. we are in full agreement with you, mr president, and our parliament intends to be closely associated with the decisions on simplification. but simplicity also means being clear. you want to make 2007 a great year for communication and i share your ambition. but neologism has never been part of a good communication strategy. but in the context of the main priority, employment, you put forward a barbaric word, 'flexicurity'. what does that mean? citizens will run away from that highly technocratic word. brussels has invented another trick, that is what we are likely to hear. energy is the fundamental issue. the year 2007 should be decisive for the orientations of energy policy. we must be objective, ignore all ideology, break the taboo on nuclear energy, and remember that our energy dependence must never exceed 50%. as we have seen recently, energy is becoming a real weapon of political pressure. and if tomorrow some outside state decides to cut off the supply, to plunge europe into darkness, what will be our response? the transport of energy must therefore be improved and solidarity between member states must be given special consideration. in the area of security and freedom, the enlargement of the schengen area is a matter of concern to our fellow citizens. they still feel that our borders remain permeable and that the debate on immigration is still at the wishful thinking stage. the future enlargement to include romania and bulgaria will have to be decided later this year. and in this connection we note with interest your sine qua non condition: these countries must fully respect the community acquis. moreover, if the neighbourhood policy is to become a policy in its own right, i regret that we are not going further in defining the strategic partnership. the period 2007-2013 will also mark the launch of new european programmes, there will be many of them, and for that we need the financial perspectives. we are all too familiar with the debate on erasmus. finally, we will be following very closely the preparation of your white paper on the reform of the union's budget. we ask you to involve parliament in this. the year 2007 will mark the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome. would it not be an opportunity to see the european constitution in action and to make 2007 the european year in all the member states, so that the double-speak finally stops and the truth is told about what europe brings to everyday life?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, what is happening in the democratic republic of the congo, with the support of the international community, and in particular that of the european union, is of crucial importance for the future of this huge country, which has been torn apart for years by civil and foreign wars. the congolese people have today mobilized in their deep desire for peace and stability and their aspiration for a democracy that allows this. it has shown this by registering massively on the electoral rolls since last july and it has shown this in december when a referendum was held to approve a draft constitution to end the current transitional period. as head of the observation mission for the referendum, i attended the ceremonies in kinshasa on 18 february to mark the promulgation of the constitution and was able to feel the deep emotions of the participants and the people as a whole. there is hope that the next stage, which will allow the country to elect a president and parliament this summer, will finally bring the country out of the chaos and misery it is still in. it is in the interests of the congolese people, it is in the interests of the entire african continent, and it is therefore in the interests of europe. there is a danger, however, that those who have so far benefited from this chaos and misery will not readily accept being deprived of their power by the ballot box and will be tempted to oppose the regularity of the voting by terror and to contest the results by force. the security situation is ensured by un forces, mainly deployed in the eastern provinces where organized gangs still remain. in these circumstances and to secure the forthcoming elections, the un has, as you said, called for the reinforcement of the european union. the form of such a decision shall be determined by the council. i am one of those who believe that this commitment will be a very strong political signal to potential troublemakers, that it will have the expected deterrent effect, and that is why i will be one of those who will support this operation.
mr president, it is a good thing that the european union is fully involved in helping the electoral process in the democratic republic of congo, and we would like it to be more vigilant about the human rights violations which have unfortunately been worsening for some time. but the way in which a european union military mission is shaping up in the drc today is really strange and curious to say the least. we are talking about a few hundred men, whereas monuc already has 16,000. these men would not be directly involved, you say, but available: where is that? what would be the mission of this military force, what would be the mandate of these men in case of violence during or after the elections, especially in kinshasa? can we not learn from the past, when un forces found themselves in impossible situations, and then blamed on all sides for lack of a clear mandate and sufficient resources? the european union must either fully respond to the united nations' request by setting conditions and committing substantial resources to support monuc, or it must devote these resources to the success of the electoral process, the full involvement of civil society, respect for human rights and also to the control and transparency of the exploitation of the drc's precious and coveted natural resources. it is clear that we would much prefer this second perspective to a military mission which is for the moment very limited in scope, whose objectives are unclear and of which we know little today.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr minister, concerning cooperation between the union and the acp countries, several amounts were put on the table: first by the commission, then, last december, by the council and, in a few weeks, almost 2.5 billion euros have disappeared. i want to believe that this is just a gross miscalculation. fortunately, the commission has just made new proposals on 17 march, with two significant advances: firstly, an additional budget of almost one billion euro for the tenth edf, to cover administrative management costs, and secondly, an additional budget of almost three hundred million euro for the octs, which would therefore be reintegrated into the edf as they have requested. i believe that these commission proposals are in the right direction and represent a first step on the road indicated by parliament. however, they are now in the hands of the council and it is up to the council to review its copy. the european union's word and its commitment to the fight against poverty are at stake. the union's word is the one which has been inscribed in annex 1 to the revised cotonou agreement. the wording was deliberately ambiguous, since it was a matter of winning the agreement of our acp partners on disputed political points, which were, moreover, questionable. but it was not so ambiguous as to explain the council's fanciful calculations. let us not let our african partners think that the new motto of europe is: 'promises only bind those who believe in them'. promises were made in 2005. the june european council thus committed the union and the member states to steadily increasing their official development assistance until 2015. at the g8 summit in july, the european union also committed itself, alongside other donors, to doubling official aid to africa by 2010. will we be able to meet these commitments with the mourning budget proposed by the council for the tenth edf? the answer is no and the council cannot claim otherwise. i also have some concerns about the management and disbursement arrangements for the tenth edf, but clarifications are being requested from both the council and the commission. the first concerns the financing of the 'development' dimension in the economic partnership agreements currently under negotiation and, secondly, the new performance criteria defined by the commission for the allocation of edf funds - working document of 13 january - which would be in addition to the traditional 'needs' criterion. i should like to conclude by saying a few words about the budgetization of the edf. this parliament has repeatedly spoken in favour of this budgeting, because it is a question of democratic control of the budget. i believe that we could do so with respect for our acp partners, because we must get out of the intergovernmental logic which gives rise to bargaining, with the results we know for the edf at the council last december. it is not the question of time and place, but it should not be buried.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, it has not escaped the president-in-office of the council that this resolution is not only common, but also unanimous. all parties, regardless of our political divisions, remind you of your duties. it is a matter of honour for our european union; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. credibility is not only about the volume of aid, but also about its effectiveness. in this connection, and with your permission, i would like to make two comments. as regards the volume, it might seem that we are having a virtual discussion because, between 22 and 24 billion euros, taking into account the leftovers and the money not spent, it is of little importance to fight for two billion euros which may not be spent. that is where you have a responsibility - to see that the money is actually spent. and also to make the largest possible contribution to major regional projects, in particular. i am referring to the nepad region. the subject of my second remark throws me into a deep depression, mr president. if we keep our commitments and go from 0.31% of gdp to 0.56% in 2010, we will have to spend 50 billion more on official development assistance, of which 25 billion for africa alone - or one edf per year - as we have just pledged. i am totally perplexed when i know that 80% of this money promise will have to be fulfilled by the member states and not by the union. but when i see the attitude of the member states when it comes to financing the edf to the tune of 24 billion for five years, i doubt that they can show us their capacity to finance 25 billion a year or so. so we are in the virtual world, mr president. i think we risk two things: the ridiculousness of announcing very high figures for very low achievements and, above all, a boomerang effect on our taxpayer voters who will wonder what the hell we can do with the money we are announcing.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleague, luisa morgantini, for the excellent report she has presented to us today on the impact of economic partnership agreements on development. the general philosophy of this text is correct. it advocates the need for community solidarity in the face of regulations which risk unchecked liberalisation. this work was unanimously approved by the committee on development. i hope and wish that he will have the same support in the vote tomorrow. a key principle must guide our thinking: development in compliance with and in close connection with the cotonou agreement. this is a priority objective in all negotiations and in the implementation of epas with acp countries. i understand the need to bring trade relations between the european union and the acp countries into line with the wto rules, i mean preferential unilateral access between community markets. however, compatibility with wto rules must not override our international commitments to promote sustainable development and eradicate poverty. i share the fears of our acp partners and many ngos about the way the negotiations are being conducted by the commission today and the logic behind them. indeed, there is a glaring asymmetry between the two stakeholders. if we do not take this into account, the harmonious and rapid reciprocal opening of markets that we are being sold will be fatally unbalanced and, i fear, paved with disappointments. this liberalization of trade between unequal partners, far from promoting the desired development, risks having devastating effects on the fragile economies of the countries concerned and on their vulnerable populations. and this at a time when, through our speeches, we claim to want to help these countries achieve the millennium development goals which, as we already know, are out of reach. i believe that if these agreements are designed in a concerted and gradual manner, in a rational and predictable framework, to promote trade and investment in this area, they will represent a real opportunity for the acp countries, an opportunity both in terms of economic diversification and harmonious regional integration and in terms of real and successful integration into the world economy. some priorities need to be expressed. the first of these is the exclusion of singaporean subjects and essential public services, without neglecting the principle of the right of these countries to defend their strategically sensitive sectors by safeguard measures. the second priority is to meet our commitment to seek alternative trade regimes to epas for countries that so request, as stipulated in article 37 (6) of the cotonou agreement. these alternatives must be based on the principle of non-reciprocity established in the gsps and the introduction of a special and differential treatment clause in the wto. these priorities depend heavily on the union's willingness to exert its full weight in the wto to promote the improvement of the rules in line with development priorities. finally, one cannot express a will without means. i therefore want to conclude by saying that, beyond the concern about the union's financial prospects, the promises made by the president of the commission at gleneagles concerning aid to trade should be kept. on the other hand, new financial commitments should be made to offset the cost to the acp of the abolition of preferences and customs duties, technical support for the acp countries should be increased and, finally, ladies and gentlemen, the unacceptable reduction of the european development fund should be rejected. but as i am not convinced that these objectives will be achieved quickly, i suggest to the commission, as a sign of its good will, to consider extending the transitional period for the reciprocal opening of markets in accordance with the specific needs of the acp countries, as identified during the negotiations.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam vice-president, dear rapporteur, dear friends, i believe that we have contributed a great deal, as parliament, to the birth of this baby of european political parties. now, maybe we should give him the bottle to help him live better. the linen report is very important in this respect, since it highlights all the shortcomings of this new product which we have put on the baptismal font. a european political party is first and foremost a political party. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. that is why jo leinen's remark is very important: european political parties must be able to participate as such in european elections. and the only way they can participate in elections is to have a part of our parliament elected on a transnational basis. that is when the parties would be understood in a concrete way by our citizens. they would also be understood by our citizens if they had the opportunity to join individually. i know that some parties allow it, but not all, and i think it would be a good thing to involve our fellow citizens more. i am a little more sceptical about the proposal of the committee on constitutional affairs to go so far as to fix the organization of the congresses and the nomination of candidates. but as far as individual membership is concerned, i think it is something that must be followed up, as must the fact that these parties must be subject to community law. it is quite aberrant that these parties are sometimes the asbl, with all due respect to the asbl. i think that community law must help to bring about the emergence of these new legal bodies. the budgetary breakdown proposed for the three months at the end of the year is also very important. i think that some political parties have already been stuck in december with unused money, and it was whoever had the best idea to spend that money hastily, to make some pens, some t-shirts, in short things that were not at all in the immediate interest of the political party in question. so a rule which allows surpluses to be spread over several months is a rule of sound management which must be upheld. finally, the european parties are young parties, but they are not yet youth parties. i think that an effort will have to be made at this level to find the right legal basis and the necessary financial means for european political youth organisations to be able to participate in this great debate. i have made some amendments to that effect. but overall it is an excellent report.
mr president, since the national framework is the only natural place for political and democratic debate, coherent parties with a global programme have no place except within the states. the democratic deficit in the union can only be filled by the representation of national parties with their own identity, parties which are accountable to citizens who know and understand them. the european political parties, which are almost all funded by the union, must be able to preserve their independence and not become a mere means of european propaganda and communication to voters. the european political parties must therefore remain mere instruments of cooperation between national political parties, a forum for open exchange with respect for each member. in no way do they reflect or convey a supposed european public opinion which does not exist and will not exist, because the diversity of languages is a fact and the union is a means and not an end in itself.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the quality of his work. european political parties are indispensable for the formation and expression of a genuine european public opinion. it is primarily their responsibility to ensure that citizens are effectively involved, not just every five years in the european elections, but in every day life and in all aspects of european political life. the report by mr leinen proposes ways of giving european parties the means to achieve this objective. i particularly welcome the following: the improvement of the rules on financing by introducing more clarity, flexibility, independence and financial security in the medium term; the indispensable support for european youth organisations and movements; finally, better representation of women on electoral lists, and especially among elected officials.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr philippe bushill-matthews for his excellent report. in order to cope with the demographic shock, it is common to mention three levers: a chosen and regulated immigration policy, a mobilization of the workforce and policies aimed at the family and the birth rate. the latter type of approach is generally referred to the member states. the european union would be wrong to deprive itself of these resources. their effectiveness has been proven and the french example is there to prove it: tax benefits for families, parental leave, monetary aid and, above all, childcare - early schooling, after-school care, diversified childcare arrangements for very young children, care for disabled children. it is also worth noting that it will not be possible to recruit women en masse into the labour market if childcare is not provided. europe is not without means, provided it has the political will and the financial means. it is therefore essential that the regulations governing territorial cohesion policies emphasise more strongly the need to finance childcare facilities. at a time when the debate is raging on the nature of the european social model, children and families, while respecting their diversity, must be a founding element of this model.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to join all those who have just spoken in welcoming the work done by mr parish and to say that i fully share the objectives set out in this report. firstly, we must take account of the environmental question in a global way: bioenergy, biomass and biodegradable materials. secondly, we must diversify our energy sources, knowing that we must anticipate the end of fossil fuels in 40-50 years and that we must fight with all our strength and with all our means against the greenhouse effect. thirdly, and most importantly, since this is agriculture, to open up new markets for our european agriculture. that said, i would add that this can only be done under two conditions, madam commissioner. firstly, biofuels alone do not sum up the whole of agricultural policy and it is necessary to maintain two pillars within this agricultural policy: the one linked to production and the one linked to territorial and social cohesion. secondly, the new policy on bioenergy can only make sense if it is fully in line with the logic and political will to turn the agricultural model into a model of sustainable development. i think that we must also start thinking about new models which will make it possible to diversify agricultural production while at the same time guaranteeing a good ecological balance throughout our territories.
mr president, mr parish's excellent report on the promotion of non-food crops does indeed raise the problem: at a time when the price of oil is rising, when gas and oil reserves are dwindling because of the growing needs of the emerging countries, it is useful to provide for alternative energy sources. the biofuels, whose development we have long supported, meet, albeit partially, the needs of the agricultural economy: improvement of the environment by reducing greenhouse gases, we are told, production of renewable energy to promote energy independence, creation of jobs in rural areas, balancing territories against rural desertification, cultivation for non-food purposes of fallow land. however, a number of questions remain. how can the ambitious target of 5.75% of the market in 2010 for biofuels be achieved, when france has only reached 1% of the market today? on the other hand, if the price of a barrel continues to rise, biofuels will become competitive and the problem of tax exemptions will become pointless, otherwise will the states accept a loss of revenue amounting to several hundred million euros? finally, with the abolition of export refunds in 2013, decided at the wto, and the reduction of internal support, cereal growers will be more oriented towards non-food production, which is not their primary vocation.
the agenda now calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
i do read headlines more quickly when they are long and complicated. i hope that the interpreters, who have the same text as me before their eyes, can follow.
as for my schedule, i assure you. i am not leaving parliament until tomorrow morning and therefore have all my time. i am not sure that this is the case for all colleagues. (applause) - before the vote on amendment no 59
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was accepted)
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was not accepted)
ladies and gentlemen, the sitting service has informed me that the voting lists have been available since last night. however, they were not necessarily where you looked for them on the parliament's website, as they were moved as a result of the reorganisation of the website. however, based on what the sitting service tells me, i do not see why i should follow up your remark, since the voting lists were available on the internet last night.
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was not accepted)
i do not know of any member who has made a notification. i would remind you of the rule: we have a special register for declaring financial interests once and for all, which avoids having to declare any financial interests at each debate. so fill out the financial register carefully to avoid any discussion.
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was accepted)
we have now finished with the votes.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mrs thyssen on her excellent work. i am particularly grateful to her for the fact that she has been so kind as to incorporate the amendments i tabled on the relationship between consumers and craft enterprises. the craftsmen play an essential role in the daily provision of information and advice to consumers, with whom they are in direct contact. i am also satisfied that the separation between the two programmes - health and consumer - is maintained. both policies are equally necessary for the citizens, and each programme can only be strengthened by them. but i remain extremely concerned about the council's proposals for the community budget for 2007 to 2013, which would lead, within a few years, to a drastic reduction in the current consumer protection policy at european level. it is unthinkable that this budget should be reduced to €5 million per year in 2009, or one euro cent per year per european consumer. this is totally insufficient to finance a consumer policy worthy of the name and otherwise fundamental in the daily lives of citizens. i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted for the joint resolution tabled by four political groups on the security of energy supply in the european union. the energy question will become crucial in the post-oil world to ensure economic development and social progress while respecting our environment. it is good that nuclear energy is no longer a taboo and i am pleased that the emphasis has been placed on sustainable energy sources and the urgent need to accelerate research and development programmes in this area. i regret that the idea of considering a community instrument for intervention to regulate oil prices was not adopted. the proposal is not to combat the inevitable rise in oil prices, but to mitigate the brutal effects by annualizing them. finally, it is very important that the european council should adopt a clear policy in this area, which, it should be remembered, is not a matter for europe, so as not to give rise to false hopes among our fellow citizens who, if they were not satisfied, would turn against the european ideal once again.
in writing. we partly agree with the conclusions of this resolution: concern about our countries' energy dependence and its possible economic and social consequences; the need to promote indigenous renewable energy sources that are more environmentally friendly; investing in energy efficiency or looking for new energy savings. it also lacks consideration of the predicted exhaustion of world hydrocarbon resources. on the other hand, we do not agree with the commission's self-appointed role in the energy sector, a role which is not in the treaties, a role which even your european constitution reduced to a statement of the existing situation, but which this parliament wants to develop. the liberalization of the electricity and gas markets only produces higher energy prices for consumers, supply disruptions and a widespread movement of companies towards concentration. even my country, which has a tradition of producing electricity in excess, with almost 90% of its electricity coming from nuclear or renewable sources, is now facing this type of problem. thanks to brussels ! the logic of the market alone is not compatible with the pursuit of national strategic objectives or the safeguarding of vital interests of a country. states must remain the sole masters of their energy policy.
in writing. european political parties are only associations with a highly lucrative purpose. the report essentially calls for more money and more ease of use for them, as well as favourable status and a special tax regime. but for what? just exist and come together, for now. the aim is to give these parties a monopoly on the spread of the good word on europe. their creation depends on an inadmissible european "well-thought-out" certificate issued by this institution, on the basis of the programmes they are obliged to submit to its bodies. and we know that you would like at least part of the seats in this parliament to be reserved for members of lists drawn up at european level, lists which could only be put forward by european parties. the ultimate goal for you would be to allow them to participate as such in national and local elections, thus allowing unacceptable political interference at all levels of state decision-making. democracy is about allowing people to govern themselves or to elect representatives who represent their interests in decision-making bodies, parliaments or governments. the imposition of artificial entities representing only themselves and subject to brussels ideology is anything but democracy.
in writing. from china to europe, russia, not to mention africa, a gigantic demographic problem is taking shape. the world is getting old. worse still, in some european countries, such as germany and russia, the population is declining or will decline. the demographic consequences are well known: increased expenditure on health and pensions, the need for millions of jobs in the field of personal assistance, a shortage of personnel leading to a desire to emigrate, a psychological shift of societies towards caution and immobility and malthusian policies of no future, the expression of which since maastricht has been the 'budgetary austerity pact'. in other words, who is going to pay the taxes to finance this situation? the gods of the stadium or the old men in the last stadium ? certainly family policies will try to create contributors and contributions. but, while waiting for the arrival of additional births and, therefore, new assets, in the vacuum of the next twenty years that opens before us, the belgian, dutch or swiss legislation on euthanasia, masquerading as the right to choose one's death, shows the journey at the end of the night that politicians, especially in europe, have begun.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.35 p.m.)
mr president, my group has asked for a statement from the commission followed by a debate. we were also in favour of a resolution, but i think that several groups would prefer that there should be no resolution. why do we insist, however, that there should at least be a statement from the commission followed by a debate? we insist because in recent days tanks have been sent to this region, turkish kurdistan. there are many victims, including children. the repression is extremely violent. the country is currently negotiating its accession to the european union. i therefore believe that the commission is directly concerned by this extremely serious breach of commitments by the country in question. that is why we want a statement and a debate to be on thursday's agenda, if possible in the morning as the first item on the agenda.
mr president, after consulting the various groups and in order to go along with their wishes, we have decided that it is preferable to withdraw the motion for a resolution. we were initially in favour of tabling a resolution, but we decided not to put it to the vote as a result of the consultations we had.
mr president, i wanted to draw the attention of the european parliament to the serious draft contract for the first recruitment undertaken by the french government. this is of course a serious threat to the french social model, but i understand, and some of my colleagues will speak on this, that there are similar threats in many countries where precariousness, especially for young people, is the only solution for their entry into the world of work. in view of the commitments made in the lisbon strategy, where our european union wants to be the most competitive area in the world while developing an original social model, it would seem to me very appropriate for the european institutions to ask france not to question a point that has been taken up in particular by the international labour office, namely that there can be no unjustified dismissal. in any case, we can see that the young people of our europe are very concerned about their future, and it would seem important to me that we reaffirm our determination to fight against so-called atypical work and against precariousness.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, during the visits made by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to the detention centres, many very serious problems were found. but what we saw in malta was terrible. the conditions of detention are inhuman and degrading. asylum seekers are locked in cages with no possibility of getting out and their most basic rights are not respected. they have no legal assistance, no medical assistance. we have met people who have been locked up for 18, 19, even 20 months, with no contact with the outside world and in unbearable sanitary conditions. we are grateful that the maltese authorities have not kept anything from us. it is a mark of respect for the european parliament and the union itself. but these conditions of detention are nonetheless a violation of human rights and the european directive on the reception of refugees. we therefore strongly urge the maltese government to put an end to its systematic detention of migrants as soon as possible. asylum seekers are not criminals. they often come from hell and they must be treated with dignity. however, we must recognize that malta is a very small country and that its geographical position places it under particular pressure. it is therefore the duty of the european union to show solidarity and to share the financial burden of managing malta's borders, in particular by making use, as you have said, commissioner, of existing programmes such as argo and the refugee fund. but a more profound reform is needed because it is not just a money problem! i therefore call on the commission to review the dublin ii regulation as soon as possible and to make proposals to amend it substantially. should we not question the very principle that the member state responsible for processing an asylum application is the first country of access? this principle places an unbearable burden on the countries to the south and east of the union and has the perverse effect of jeopardizing reception conditions and access to asylum. migration is indeed a phenomenon of the modern world. we will not shirk our responsibilities as rich nations in welcoming the victims of oppression or in combating poverty, which is the root cause of migration.
mr president, i believe that the visits undertaken by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of the european parliament have the immense merit of showing that the confinement of foreigners has become, in a way, the ordinary way of dealing with migration issues and that this logic of confining foreigners, everywhere in europe, shows and manifests its limits and its completely unacceptable consequences, particularly in malta, for the reasons already indicated in the debate. unfortunately, it is a matter of fact, as it was already carried out by major international human rights organisations in 2004 and 2005. we know the situation and i think that we must now simply recognize the absurdity of the dublin agreement being applied to malta. i believe that we must really move forward with this reform, and that, as some colleagues have asked, we must go deep. first, a person arriving in malta must be able to file and apply for asylum in the country where he wishes to settle. it is also necessary that those who obtain refugee status in malta should be able to move freely in europe, as in malta or any other country of first arrival. i believe that these reforms are absolutely necessary if we are to emerge from these absolutely catastrophic human rights situations. the european union must also be able to define a legal migration policy and stop giving the highest priority to repression and the closure of borders with a management which we now see as completely empty and inhuman. this is evidenced by the hundreds, if not thousands, of people who drown every week not only in the mediterranean but also in the canary islands, since we know that the currents have now moved to mauritania.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank my fellow rapporteurs from the other political groups, in particular mrs ayuso and mr swoboda, who have accompanied me throughout my reflections and who have made a major contribution to the text which is before you today and which will be submitted to you for approval tomorrow. i would like to thank the representatives of the european commission and the secretariat of the committee on industry, research and energy for their attention and their replies to the questions raised. i would also like to underline the positive role of the austrian presidency, which has endeavoured to find formulations which, based on parliament's first reading, would win the support of the member states. i think it is worth recalling the objectives of this proposal for a decision. the aim is to grant olefin's transmission networks a european label, thereby making them eligible for loans from the european investment bank, to adapt the guidelines to the configuration of a european union of 25 member states, to authorise the financing of projects of common interest, to enable the completion of the internal market in gas and electricity and, above all, to ensure security of supply, by means of interconnections between member states and neighbouring countries: south-east europe, mediterranean countries, ukraine and belarus. while the council's common position, transmitted in january, proposed a different approach from that of parliament in that it rejected the declaration of european interest and the appointment of a coordinator, work at second reading made it possible to draft compromise amendments in informal trilogues involving parliament, the council presidency and the european commission. these compromise amendments are entirely in line with our objectives at first reading. they define projects of european interest as a series of projects on priority axes, which involve the crossing of a border or have a significant impact on cross-border transport capacity. these projects can therefore be considered as priorities for financing under the transeuropean energy networks and will receive special attention under other community funds. the delay in implementation will be examined and joint coordination meetings will focus in particular on evaluation and public consultation procedures. the amendments also provide for a better definition of the role of the european coordinator, who may be appointed when a project is experiencing significant delays or implementation difficulties. the coordinator will promote the european dimension of the project, help coordinate national procedures for consulting the populations concerned and provide an annual report on the project's progress. i would like to express two regrets, commissioner. on the one hand, the limited amount of funding available for the transeuropean energy networks, probably just enough to finance a few feasibility studies. and secondly, as you know, commissioner, parliament did not wish to call into question the legitimacy of the proposals in the annexes to the report. and yet it seems to me that priority should be given to projects which contribute to the security of supply of the greatest number of states, thus promoting this european dimension. i am thinking in particular of the baltic states, whose gas networks are largely insufficient to supply them safely and sustainably, given that priority has been given to the russia-germany gas pipeline as a result of the agreements reached between mr schroeder and mr putin. i ask you to encourage the establishment of the infrastructure necessary to supply all the states. in view of the recent crisis between ukraine and russia and the declarations made at hampton court, the need for a european energy policy is clear. this text therefore gives the european institutions an opportunity to demonstrate this will. the new provisions introducing the declaration of european interest and the possibility of appointing a coordinator are essential tools for the realisation of a genuine internal market in gas and electricity, to ensure security of supply. but this european network can only be completed by improving and increasing the number of interconnections. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the common position as amended by this compromise package. our vote will provide the union with one of the tools needed to achieve the objectives it has set itself.
mr president, this has not happened in europe, but it could have. not only have we not learned any lessons from the 2000 blackouts in california, but you are creating the conditions for europe to experience a full-scale energy catastrophe. your proposals will lead to cheaper and less reliable energy. the separation of the transmission network from the power generation units is an economic, ecological and industrial aberration. once again, the european institutions are taking the side of financial interests at the expense of the general interest. the capitalist market is incapable of taking on long-term investments in the energy sector. the satisfaction of shareholder interests means sacrificing research, sustainable development and security. the choice to create an artificial single internal energy market will also lead to the elimination of many jobs and the precariousness of many others. our union needs a strong european public sector, financed by the public, to meet the needs of the european citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for this debate. trans-european networks are an extremely important part, but they are just one part, of european energy policy as i see it. one very important precondition is cooperation between member states. i think the great news i have had over recent months is the cooperation in the energy sector between baltic countries. governments are looking for a common energy policy even if their markets are isolated; but that still clearly indicates that governments should look towards that policy. the european council gave a lot of assurances, because the heads of state and government again came back to the interconnection issues – the 10% decision from barcelona that was neglected – and called for a priority interconnection plan. in this respect trans-european energy networks actually provide the basis of an answer. there have been critical remarks to the effect that networks could give rise to some types of speculation. that is why i am saying that regulation is as important as interconnection. regulation is absolutely necessary for the market, and the commission has been always rigorous in asking member states to implement eu legislation. but there are two stages. first of all we must get each member state to transpose the legislation. we have achieved that in 23 cases and 2 cases are before the european court of justice. so that is one stage. then there is conformity. the new package addresses the conformity issue. perhaps there will have to be new cases because the conformity issue does not arise only from commission studies but is also raised by market participants when they find the directive has not been implemented correctly. so that is not the end of the story. it is clear, however, that networks and the good development of networks are absolutely necessary. networks do not only mean interconnection, they also mean storage: it takes a long time to build gas storage, for example. i know that the challenge is huge. there was some talk about avoiding duplication and i know that there are a couple of projects in the same area. here i think governments should help by seeking a common approach and not building competing networks; instead they should look to the development of the best projects, which serve the interests of most of the member states and the european union. finally, in answer to the question as to what european energy policy means, it does not mean the sum of eu member states’ policies. it is based on member states’ policies, but it creates a new area of action for the european union in a situation where globalisation in energy markets has given rise to new challenges, where the action of one member state does not fully or adequately respond to the expectations of the citizens of that state, and where it is our duty to act at the scale of and within the scope of the european union as a whole. trans-european networks are definitely one of the instruments we can use. i would like again to thank the rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, and all the shadow rapporteurs who have had the patience to negotiate with the council and, at the appropriate moment, reached this overall compromise that i can accept.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are now dealing with a report which for the first time has a political dimension. indeed, in the debates of the 2005 referendums on the ratification of the constitutional treaty, the notions of a free and open area of competition - as it is currently called - or undistorted - as it would have been called if the treaty on the european constitution had been adopted - were at the centre of the debate. our problem today is to prove that competition policy can be of service to the people, that it must be of service to the people, that it is already of service to the people. there is a broad consensus in our committee on this point, but as soon as i, as rapporteur, had to point out clear cases which called for a review or reorientation of competition policy, or which, on the contrary, called for strong encouragement of competition policy, disagreements arose. the report, in its present form after amendment, is typical of the european parliament's reports, which practically no one can or wants to read because they say nothing at all. i hope that on at least three points strong ideas will be reaffirmed to show the people that the european institutions are at their service. competition policy is divided into three main areas: the fight against the formation of monopolies, the fight against cartels and the fight against illegal or harmful state aid to healthy and undistorted competition. i shall take these three examples and offer you, ladies and gentlemen, some strong ideas on these policies. firstly, the fight against monopolies: the policy of the european union has been admirable in its battle against the abuse of microsoft's dominant position. my committee, the committee on economic and monetary affairs, has chosen not to support the directorate-general for competition in this fight. i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to reaffirm the european parliament's support for the competition directorate and the commission in their battle against microsoft. secondly, i shall deal with the formation of these monopolies and the fight against cartels. overall, the directorate-general for competition has been admirable. i am thinking in particular of the vivendi/hachette case. i believe that mistakes were made in 1999 in a hurry, inadvertently, in the merger between rhône-poulenc and hoechst. we have to try to understand where these mistakes come from. we have no right to revoke the measures taken by the commission and i am not asking for it, but i am asking for a committee of inquiry into what happened to understand how tens of thousands of employees, tens of thousands of small shareholders could be ruined for lack of control which the commission had promised to exercise. the third point on which i would ask you to speak and to give strong ideas concerns the area of state aid. the competition directorate and the 2004 report approve such aid when it is consistent with the gothenburg and lisbon policies. we must support her on this point. on the contrary, when the competition directorate approves the city of charleroi, which heavily subsidises ryanair, i think it should be criticised because it distorts competition between cities, between companies and between modes of transport, to the detriment of lisbon and gothenburg policy.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this annual meeting is important because it is the only time when the european parliament can fully discuss and assess the competition policy as it is being conducted by the commission. it is therefore important that this parliament should ensure that free and undistorted competition remains genuinely free and undistorted and that, where there are cases which deserve a little more attention, we can do so, including in this house, whether it is microsoft, rhodia-rhône-poulenc or ryanair-charleroi. since you are going to be reopening the debate on the important concept of concentration, which plays a key role in competition policy, i would like to draw your attention to one point, and i hope that this parliament will follow us on this. it seems to us that the threshold criteria currently in force in the commission prevent it from declaring itself competent whenever it should. for example, in the case of the merger between the london stock exchange and deutsche börse, you were ultimately not competent, on the grounds that the turnover in question was below the thresholds. there is a real question here. my second thought concerns the mittal-arcelor case. does free and undistorted competition mean that the conditions of ownership of the undertakings concerned must be completely disregarded? i think that there is also something to think about. finally, i will not surprise you by saying that for the socialists competition policy only makes sense if it contributes to the lisbon strategy. it must integrate social objectives, environmental objectives, long-term objectives. i hope that in this way we will be able to bring the concept of free and undistorted competition back into balance so that the union is indeed the most competitive area in the world, while respecting full employment and sustainable development.
mr president, commissioner, everyone here is in favour of free trade, no one wants to go back to enver hoxha's albania. so we are all in favour of multilateral rules, but what rules and in the service of what? we are told that free trade is good for jobs and growth. but have the rules of trade applied so far made the nations rich? answer: in mexico, ninety-four free trade agreements and this is not happiness; in ecuador, indigenous peoples of the andes are against the free trade agreement and in france, right now, three million high school students are on the streets because there are no jobs; in my country, the vineyard is in misery, there are suicides and yet there is free trade. the observation that the current rules of free trade do not lead to economic prosperity is one of two things. either free trade is the secular name of the christian religion, where the vine growers of europe, the peasants, the workers, must go to the cross to atone for the sins of the world. in that case, let us continue and in exchange for our concessions, brazil, india will not open their markets and the anglo-saxon world will not recognize our intellectual property in our agricultural appellations. we are therefore, commissioner, continuing on the poor path which, after ten rounds of gatt and wto negotiations, has brought nothing for africa. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are making the technological leap with the invention of deductible customs duties because, in the form of tax credits offered to exporting countries and usable in the importing country, we have customs duties that ensure economic neutrality and solve the problems of globalisation. tell peter mandelson that his role is not to follow david ricardo but to have the inventive capacity of john maynard reynes.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate my friend georgios papastamkos, the former greek minister for the economy, on his remarkable work of synthesis and compromise, and i would ask you, commissioner wallström, to convey to peter mendelssohn my appreciation for all his work. hong kong's greatest success has been not being a failure. the present stage is decisive for the balance of the planet. i have two proposals to make and one to consider. first, as regards the end of export subsidies in 2013, i would like to return to the proposal to set up an independent audit of all forms of aid, visible and invisible, in order to put an end to the hypocrisy on this matter. the emphasis should also be on a major work of prospective studies which will make it possible to measure in a quantitative and qualitative way the european economic and social impacts, for example as regards employment in the context of these negotiations. some of our important economic sectors are very exposed in these negotiations, such as those of the agri-food industries, and the least we can do is provide them with information. finally, we must address the question of the link between international trade, wealth and poverty. it is essential for economies, especially western economies, which create their wealth according to market logic, to contribute to the implementation of real mechanisms for eradicating poverty in the world. if we democrats do not do this, we will pay a heavy political price, in particular by the rise of extremes. there are members in our european parliament who believe that international trade creates poverty and not wealth. we in the group of the european people's party think the opposite. in the past, the world settled its great disorders by war, and today, military wars have given way to economic wars, with two differences: instead of deaths, we have unemployment, and we do not know who the enemy is. in this matter, and in the face of the rise of national egoisms, which are ultimately nothing but the sum of individual egoisms, the european union has a big role to play. in fact, during the debates on our european constitution, we explained that we need a more political europe to exist in an increasingly complex world. if our fellow citizens have any doubts about the usefulness of the european union in this global arms race, then this will be a further blow to our great european project.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur and say that, after your presentation, and after the one that pascal lamy made on behalf of the wto to the committee on international trade a few days ago, we see that after hong kong, after london, after rio, the doha round remains unfinished and is even in danger. it is moving forward, but it is moving slower than the clock of the expiry of the us administration's negotiating mandate and, unlike previous cycles, we do not have the possibility this time of extending the talks by two or three years, unless we endanger the whole multilateral structure. i believe that if we are committed to this multilateral framework, we must now call on all the actors to make the last effort. after the computer simulations in london, after the preliminaries or the spring preliminaries in rio, we must now act. the industrialized countries, europe and the united states in particular, must take decisions and commitments, and take the necessary steps, because this cycle is a cycle of development. the g20 countries, the emerging countries, will also have to make a number of concessions in terms of industrial tariffs, but we know that reciprocity will be less than total. we cannot ask them to jeopardize a number of fragile economic sectors or sectors of industry or services which are not necessarily ready to be opened up to international competition. i therefore believe that this cycle deserves to be completed, and perhaps in this i differ from some of my friends, such as mr agnoletto, who earlier pointed out its shortcomings. there are certainly shortcomings and the european union's energy must be focused on meeting the commitments it has made in favour of development. but there is also the abolition of export subsidies. implementation must begin before 2013 and, above all, be accompanied by an undertaking and monitoring mechanism to ensure that other industrialised countries, not just the european union, move towards the abolition of all export subsidies. the access to the rich countries' markets for agricultural products from developing countries will still be increased and the list of sensitive products must be reduced. the least developed countries must have free access to duties and quotas, but we must remove some of the 3% tariff lines which will allow certain countries such as japan and australia to escape this effort, we must change the trips agreements for access to medicines and we must provide for a development package with trade aid which should not replace aid already provided for under official development aid to finance the millennium development goals.
chairman of the committee on fisheries. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking here on behalf of the committee on fisheries, which i chair, to inform you that by a large majority of 14 votes to nine, this committee voted last night against the request for urgency put forward by the council for the examination of the report by our colleague mrs varela on the regulation on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco. in fact, accepting this request would be tantamount to giving up the agreement at a time when the debates in our committee are far from over, as the intensity of yesterday's discussions showed, and at a time when the committee on development, which is particularly interested in this type of agreement, has not yet given its opinion. we are of course aware of the importance of this agreement, on the one hand, for the moroccan government and, on the other hand, for the european fishermen themselves. that is why we propose that an accelerated procedure be applied to this matter, so that, after a further exchange of views at the next meeting of the committee on 18 and 19 april, the report can be voted on in committee on 2 may and, consequently, be submitted to parliament for its opinion at the next plenary session in may. we believe that the first payments are due at the end of june. we therefore believe that this last period of reflection, which we consider necessary in this parliament, will not be a major inconvenience.
chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, the committee on agriculture and rural development unanimously decided yesterday to support the request for urgent procedure put forward by the european commission for exceptional measures to support the market in eggs and poultrymeat. in view of the serious crisis currently affecting the poultry sector in many member states, we believe that a rapid decision is essential and, by adopting the urgency procedure, the european parliament will be able to give its opinion on the european commission's proposal. it will thus demonstrate its ability to react quickly to respond to citizens' demands. the commission tabled the request for urgency at the end of last week and we will reply to it on thursday. i think it's a great example for our fellow citizens in terms of responding to a serious crisis.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, this meeting is obviously important because the debate on the guidelines provides the means to implement the lisbon strategy. it is also the meeting place for ex ante coordination of the economic policies of the member states. we in this parliament supported the integration of the guidelines for employment policies into the broad economic policy guidelines. i think that from the point of view of intellectual coherence, this was the right approach, provided that we did not lose the substance, provided in particular that the powers of this parliament were also harmonised. i support the rapporteur's proposals in this respect. in the context of the broad economic policy guidelines, we are faced with a paradox: while the central bank has just raised interest rates by one point, while the rise in oil prices is seriously undermining the conditions for recovery within the european union, while the conditions for a recovery in domestic demand are largely underestimated by some interlocutors at the level of the european union, these broad guidelines are not moving. we believe that we must do more together in this respect, at least in one area: i am talking about the investment strategy. my group has tabled an amendment to that effect which i hope will be adopted by the plenary. it is a matter of stressing the need, if we are to really implement the lisbon strategy, to develop, at the level of the european union, the investment plans we need to support the policies that will enable us to meet our knowledge, training and employment challenges. in conclusion, i would like to emphasize the taxation issue which underpins our entire economic apparatus. i hope that the whole commission, and the council too, will echo and support the efforts of commissioner kovács in this regard.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report by our colleague mr őry, whom i congratulate on his work, can be an asset for the european worker. measures restricting the free movement of workers have adverse effects, including the expansion of illegal work. in recent months, polish workers were discovered in france, housed in shacks, malnourished, unattended, unpaid, and brought by a german subcontracting company. ironically, these workers were working on the construction of a courthouse. where is the justice? such facts are unacceptable. the free movement of workers must be one of the levers for social progress, one of the tools to stop social dumping. the end of transitional schemes will oblige employers to offer workers decent living conditions in compliance with the social law of the host country. social protection, decent housing, decent wages, working hours - these are the foundations that this free movement must provide, and we will ensure that they are. it is unacceptable that some people should be able to play on the different nationalities of employees to bring down the cost of labour, as others play on the stock market. let us remember that the european founding project aims to unite peoples and not to divide them. continuing to restrict the free movement of workers can only feed the fears of citizens of some member countries, who are terrified of being treated as second-class europeans. and you are right, commissioner, we must now talk about european citizens. these restrictions must be lifted everywhere. and that is possible, but the controls will have to be strengthened so that the first beneficiaries of this measure do not become the first victims.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in times of doubt the european union must return to its basic principles. the four freedoms on which the internal market is based must now be perfected. the free movement of workers is still to be achieved and to this end it is important to remove as quickly as possible the restrictions imposed by the accession of the new member states. the challenge is no longer there, since we see that in the 15 countries where the barriers have been removed, there has been no mass entry. it is even surprising that only 2% of europeans work outside their own borders, while a third of americans are settled in a state other than the one in which they were born. the invasion is a fantasy, the mobility of workers is a challenge. the csaba őry report sets the target for 2009 to raise it and i agree with that target. the french prime minister has indicated that france will anticipate this movement by lifting these restrictions in a gradual and controlled manner. the resolution adopted in december 2005 by the european trade union confederation opens up paths that combine open borders and adequate protection. the amendments adopted by the committee on social affairs and employment are aimed at this, at ensuring the application of labour law in the member states, namely ensuring the implementation of community standards, in particular that of the secondment directive, and at studying the creation of a social euro-polar centre coordinating the inspection services of the member states. by producing standardised statistics on community migration, we could set up the social europe toolkit within the union, which will verify that the free movement of workers must not be synonymous with dumping, or social dumping, but on the contrary a factor of economic dynamism designed to fill the pockets of underemployment.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the rapporteur. mr president, as the text has been practically emptied of its substance, i withdraw my name from the report and call on parliament to reject it. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the reports from our european parliament on employment and social affairs policies are the repetition of a tiresome europeanist preaching which, in addition to excessive paper production, gives a result that deserves zero points. apart from the daily failure of the lisbon process, it is not a few ill-conceived revisions of the guidelines of a council decision that was decidedly badly 'decided' that will save french employment and the economy. the soup is meant to please everyone. the commission's liberalism is maintained, but it is also felt that the european institutions should be allowed more control over self-disciplined nations. to make it beautiful, the whole thing is spiced with good intentions when it comes to protecting, within this monstrous model, the weaker ones who are willingly mixed with immigration, so as not to have to endure any controversy on this issue. the solution to our problems lies precisely in these points. to revive our economy and employment like the phoenix, we must stop settlement immigration, promote natalist policies, apply community preference and protection in europe and national preference and protection in france.
in writing. the explanatory memorandum to mr lipietz's report is much more informative than the text of the report itself, which merely praises the commission's 'remarkable' work in its search for the slightest obstacle to free competition. the explanatory memorandum deplores the absence of studies on the actual consequences of the commission's decisions or on the dogmatic application of the provisions on state aid. it is mentioned that the market, which is also endowed with all the virtues, may not be sufficient on its own to achieve certain political and even economic objectives. it suggests that the liberalisation of certain markets has led to the replacement of good old public monopolies by private oligopolies, removing benefits without creating 'more' for consumers. finally, it stresses the commission's complete lack of self-criticism when its unwelcome decisions lead to economic disasters, as in the rhodia case for example. but the general impression is that brussels' competition policy is the expression of an ultra-liberal doctrine, that of the commission in the fight against 'economic patriotism', paradoxically applied by a fussy bureaucracy constantly intervening in the strategies of companies or the policies of states. in the context of fierce global competition, this can only lead to unemployment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague david hammerstein mintz on the transparency of european council meetings when acting as legislator. at a time when it is becoming necessary to move towards a political europe, it has become increasingly incomprehensible that the european council should continue to meet behind closed doors when acting as a legislator. this position is not only contrary to article 1 (2) of the treaty on european union (maastricht treaty of 7 february 1992), which provides for the principle of openness in european decisions, but also does not correspond to the transparency which our fellow citizens expect from the functioning of the european institutions. we shall never succeed in reducing the rift that has arisen between the european construction and the peoples with such behaviour. while awaiting the ratification of a treaty establishing a constitution for europe, the european council, while maintaining private spaces for exchanges between heads of state, must urgently reform its own rules of procedure to anticipate this development towards greater transparency in its deliberations when acting as legislator.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague and friend georgios papastamkos on the assessment of the doha round following the world trade organisation ministerial conference in hong kong in december 2005 because i believe that economies, especially western economies, must support the doha development agenda which provides for open and fair trade to reduce poverty in the world and be a factor of progress for both developing and developed countries. if we do not, we will pay dearly politically, especially by the rise of extremes. i am glad that multilateralism is being recognised in this negotiation and that international trade is a source of wealth and therefore of social progress. everyone will be able to see the great usefulness of a united and strong european political union in this global struggle where national egoisms are advancing in the face of weakened international institutions.
in writing. the wto is now trying to find solutions to problems that would never have existed without it and its attempt to force global free trade at all costs to the people: dumping of all kinds, problems of counterfeiting, restricted market access in most countries except those of the european union, transparent subsidies - in europe - or disguised - elsewhere, especially in the united states - that distort competition ... the world market is a jungle in which the weakest, the poorest, are the designated victims, and the only region that plays by the rules, europe, is a collateral victim. the least developed countries must not be integrated into the wto system, but must be protected from it, if they are to achieve development. like some nobel prize winners in economics, we believe that free trade can only exist in a way that benefits all countries at the same level of development, while trade must be regulated with others, which, by the way, does not prevent trade provisions that are favourable to developing countries. nor does it make it necessary in each of the 'zones' thus constituted to have a centralized common commercial policy in the hands of a supranational bureaucracy. in short, free trade is not an end in itself.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague josé manuel garcia-margallo y marfil on the state of the european economy in the context of the preparatory report for the broad economic policy guidelines for 2006, which highlights the conditions for sustainable economic growth. this report is essential to understand why europe is one of the world's slowest growing regions, especially in the developed world. the over-regulation that makes our economy less flexible, the fact that we do not have enough global leaders, that our small and medium-sized enterprises are growing at a slower rate than in the united states of america, too low an employment rate and average working hours and, finally, too little investment in vocational training, research and development, explain much of the current situation. in the global economic and social competition facing europe, it is becoming urgent that the member states, through their national reform plans, create, together with the european union, the conditions for the success of the lisbon objectives, which aim to make europe the best performing economy in the world.
in writing. as every year, the european parliament's report on the broad economic policy guidelines is, in its observations, a catalogue of truisms and, in its proposals, a list of recommendations which the members of this parliament, from the right and the left, adopt with enthusiasm, but which the parties to which they belong take care not to apply when they are in power in their country. in addition to this hypocrisy, i would like to highlight three points which i found surprising: the total absence of reference to the unjustified interest rate increases by the european central bank, which contribute to the stagnation of the euro area; the report considers the european union to be a perfectly homogeneous area, composed of countries facing very similar problems, whereas situations have become extremely heterogeneous since the last enlargement. the demand for european legislation that is 'compatible with that of our competitors' may be an unacceptable call to action, at least in social and environmental terms. if we did not already consider that the whole of brussels' policy is largely responsible for our economic difficulties, these three points would have been sufficient to justify our negative vote.
in writing. i did not approve of the broad guidelines of economic policies which have only endorsed the liberal guidelines of the eu for several years and are the cause of weak growth, unemployment, the precariousness of employees, the decline of our social protections. the report does not support any of the guidelines for an alternative policy: support for purchasing power, raising wages to boost popular consumption and growth; support for ambitious public investment for modernisation and employment; harmonisation of taxation and upward social standards to combat dumping; the european council in brussels in december last year called for the creation of a genuine economic government capable of competing with the ecb.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioners, in any battle, it is in the interest of each individual to evaluate each stage correctly. we should not underestimate the successes, which can lead to a feeling of failure, nor should we overestimate what we think we have achieved, which can lead to disappointment. in the case of the so-called 'bolkestein' directive, where are we in this respect? the points made by the opponents of the original text at parliament's first reading are undeniable. the abolition of the country of origin principle and the adjustment of the actual application of the directive are the most emblematic setbacks imposed on the hardliners of liberal europe. the exclusion of a number of fields of activity from the scope of the directive and the granting to the host state of a power of control, even if limited, conditional and difficult to exercise, are also not negligible elements. finally, the exclusion of labour law brings us back to the law in force today. we shall be looking at the commission's new text with a magnifying glass. if it appeared that the company was trying to recover part of the land it had to give up, in particular by granting itself a right of control a priori, this would be an unacceptable claim in our view. if, on the other hand, it turns out that the commission has incorporated parliament's demands into its new version of the draft directive, this would be both a further sign of the growing weight of our parliament in the european institutional triangle and also, and perhaps above all, confirmation of the structuring effect of the citizens' entry into the european debate, particularly since a certain 29 may 2005. that is to say, our group has no inclination to tolerate these developments. that said, and in any event, does the result achieved so far have the effect of stopping this spiraling of competition between workers against which our fellow citizens are rising up more and more massively? that's the real question, and our answer is no. the amendments to the directive, which go beyond the exceptions set out above, consolidate the rules establishing a system of integration based not on the harmonization of legislation but on the free market. the current state and major trends of the community acquis would merit renewed attention in this respect, particularly at a time of enlargement of the union to countries with social standards attractive to economic and political leaders obsessed with lowering costs and removing 'barriers to competitiveness' in the famous open market economy where competition is free and undistorted. how far are we prepared to go from this repressive logic? at a time when the great debate on the future of the european union is taking place, this is a central issue on which i propose to open the debate, particularly on the left.
mr president, the council and the commission have taken note of the vote on the gebhardt report on the services directive and we can only welcome it. for once we are in the majority, we do not hide our pleasure. we have done a great deal to eliminate the most objectionable elements of the services directive, starting with the famous country of origin principle. however, a number of areas remain in the shadow, particularly with regard to economic services of general interest, and it will be for the council to resolve them, in agreement with parliament. for now, the danger is elsewhere. the commission is considering a more liberal revision of the directive on the posting of workers, which could partially cancel out the legislative work of the european parliament. finally, we condemn in the strongest possible terms the commission's decision to prosecute france for adopting anti-opa decrees in 11 sensitive and strategic sectors, particularly in the field of defence. the commission prefers to play against its own side rather than defend europe's well-understood interests in the wto or on world markets. it is therefore up to the states to correct this institutional and political anomaly.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the final text we have to reach must respect the balance that the members of this parliament have reached. if a directive on the free movement of services has to be adopted, it is because it is a real necessity, not at any price. the commission's original draft was a clumsy, misunderstood, reckless text. parliament has today completely revised this text, making it possible to complete the internal market while preserving our social model. we are grateful to you, commissioner, for giving up the temptation and we suggest that you join parliament in working out a compromise. the ball is now in the council's court, and we expect it to act as a responsible co-legislator. the services directive is now a building whose balance rests on pillars of equal importance to us. to question either of them would be to risk bringing down the whole structure. the council cannot ignore the political message we have sent it. commissioner, the vote in parliament on services has paved the way. our fellow citizens would not understand that we were going backwards.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioners, this debate is essential. finally, it deals with the commission's monopoly of legislative initiative. indeed, whether it is better regulation or lawmaking, what matters is how the initiative for legislation is taken. and if the treaties have granted the commission a monopoly of initiative, it is because it must represent the general interest. it must embody this capacity not merely to be the sounding board for the various industries concerned but to represent all those who cannot necessarily organise themselves. in this sense, i think we are all convinced that better regulation is important for business, but that it must also sometimes translate into more legislation. and this is what parliament said very clearly to you, mr barroso, when your commission proposed to withdraw 68 proposals for legislation and when, very clearly, for example, we said that legislation was needed on mutual funds. i have tabled an opinion on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on mr gargani's report on the simplification of legislation and i would like to make three comments on this. first, we must be aware that in this area, of course, any technical question obscures the political question of content: what is being simplified? what community acquis is being developed behind simplification? secondly, some people sometimes think that better regulation is synonymous with self-regulation. in the committee on economic and monetary affairs we have, with the example of accounting standards, the absolute example of a situation where, in the absence of very precise democratic control, dangerous deviations sometimes arise. finally, the search for simplification must also lead to the introduction of better-designed legislation, where parliament defines the principles, the rest being referred to committee procedure. as you know, we fully support such an approach as long as it is based on an agreement on comitology which fully recognises the rights of the co-legislator in this area, namely the european parliament.
the committee on constitutional affairs has tabled a number of amendments to the report. madam president, i would like to thank mr gargani for the clarity and commitment of his report. i welcome the fact that a very large part of my opinion has been incorporated and that his report takes up the two objectives which were mine, namely, firstly, the emphasis on the fact that simplification is necessary but must not be achieved in any way, and secondly, the affirmation of parliament's willingness to take part fully in the simplification strategy. we can only welcome any initiative to make the regulatory environment more readable and more coherent. it is impossible to continue to function properly with a body of work of more than 80 000 pages. how can we, in these circumstances, speak to citizens in a credible way about accessibility and transparency? the simplification strategy must therefore be supported in principle. it should eventually lead to community and national standards which are easier to apply and less costly. however, this simplification also has a number of limitations and even dangers, and therefore caution is warranted. the report states in particular that simplification should not result in lowering standards, that there are problems with the application of the interinstitutional agreement governing the recasting procedure and that it is therefore necessary to clarify the applicable rules in order to avoid conflicts of jurisdiction and procedural deadlocks. the report also clearly states the desire of parliament to take part fully in the simplification strategy and it stresses both the need to protect parliament's prerogatives and the question of adapting its rules of procedure. simplification cannot take place outside any democratic control and, in particular, outside the control of parliament. parliament must also consider improving its internal legislative procedures and techniques in the context of simplification. this will be the subject of a specific report which i am responsible for drawing up. finally, as regards alternative forms of regulation, i am pleased that this report calls for strict control of the use of co-regulation and self-regulation, since it is essential to provide safeguards in this area.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, under the guise of a technical debate, there is a debate of great political importance. it is better to legislate, but without deregulating and without dismissing the legislator himself. in this respect, i would like to express my strongest reservations about certain mechanisms such as alternative regulatory mechanisms such as regulation and self-regulation. they have their function, but in the interests of citizens and consumers, in my view, these remedies should in no way replace the law, which confers rights but also duties and is therefore the most legitimate democratic tool. as regards the consultation prior to the legislative process, i invite the three institutions to organise, alongside economic operators, the effective participation of the social partners and civil society in its diversity. it is the responsibility of public authorities to support the organisation of these actors throughout europe, associations of consumers, users of public services, associations fighting against exclusion or popular education. finally, let me comment on the simplification slide programme which is supposed to facilitate the lisbon strategy. i am surprised that it includes as a priority the reworking of the organic regulation when producers in this sector are not asking for much and that at the same time proposals as important as those on the status of the mutual and the european association have been withdrawn from the legislative programme.
madam president, you are a leading expert on ancient japan in the tokugawa period, when the people were deliberately kept in the dark about laws classified as state secrets and whose knowledge was reserved for a small number of high-ranking lords, because it was thought that in this way the people were kept in a much higher standard of which they were completely unaware. well, i sometimes wonder if we are not actually taking inspiration from this ancient japanese legislation. in fact, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the complexity of european law is the perverse effect of a group dynamic in which we are fully involved. what's this about? firstly, the initiative belongs to the commission, but behind each commissioner there is of course the directorate-general and the officials who make up that directorate-general. then it goes to the council. the council is theoretically composed of ministers. they agree on a text, provided that each of their respective bureaucracies includes all the standards that must appear in the joint draft, and then the text is sent to parliament, which appoints a rapporteur. and naturally the rapporteur - and rightly so - wants to leave his name in history. it will leave a much better mark if it adds standards rather than if it removes them, not to mention the colleagues who table amendments, the important role of lobbies, etc. this is how we arrive, ladies and gentlemen, at a veritable normative monster. i have been in this parliament for 17 years and in the first year that i sat here a debate on the simplification of community law was already taking place. i feel that we are exactly where we were 17 years ago, except that the situation has gotten worse. so what do you need? we need to agree on the meaning of the terms. we need a real dictionary of community law, a code such as the civil code, the commercial code or the criminal code, which is rationally organized, divided into parts, subparts, chapters, sections and articles, so that when we are working on a text we know in advance that we are going to amend this or that article. in short, a great effort is required to simplify. i fear that despite the good intentions of the rapporteurs, we are not quite there. thank you.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. let me try to explain again what this is and what it is not about. it's not about less legislation. it is not about worse legislation, it is not about deregulation, it is not about neoliberal market radicalism. it is simply a matter of designing the european legal system in a way that citizens can understand it, and designing it in a way that the european economy can use it to grow, invest and create jobs. it is really the simplest thing in the world, and i am always amazed at what motives can be conjectured behind such a clear and unambiguous concept. whether or not we think we have too many european laws and that they may not always be good enough, it does not matter at all. it is not a matter of belief that we are talking about here, but we are talking about the fact that a shockingly high proportion of european citizens are convinced that this is the case. we are talking about the fact that the european businessmen and the european trade unions are unanimous in saying that this is the case. too much bureaucracy, too many laws, too complicated laws, too many unnecessary restrictions. it doesn't matter if it's true, it matters that those for whom we make the laws are convinced that it is true. so something had to be done. the better regulation project proposed by the commission works with all the instruments mentioned here - different ways of simplifying and modernising the law without changing its content. i must say it again: it is not about changing the substance of regulations, but about making them user-friendly and transparent. i would like to ask the european parliament to support me once again. it is really two big, different projects. the first project is the retrospective review of the entire legal framework. let's not kid ourselves. when european integration was still in its infancy, laws were made from different points of view than today, and if we go back a little further, we find some very surprising things in the annals of our law books. no one disputes that it needs to be modernized. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question to be asked is: how do we want to make arrangements in the future? how do we want to make laws in the future? in this context, the issue of impact assessment plays a very central role. i support all those in this room who say, it is imperative in a democracy that the legislator knows what the consequences of his actions are for those affected. that does not mean that the legislator refrains from doing something if he knows that. it will always be a matter of balance. when the commission tells you that legislation is costing the economy x billion euros, but tells you on the other hand that it is necessary to introduce this legislation to meet the needs of citizens to protect their health, the balancing act is not difficult. the commission will then say: the protection of the health of citizens is paramount, even at a cost. i want to make it clear that impact assessment does not automatically mean that when it turns out that we are doing something that also has a cost, we simply say: we are not doing it. it's about knowing exactly what we're doing. important thoughts have been expressed here on how best to organise such an impact assessment, and i will tell you frankly: we are in the middle of a process of discussion in the commission on this issue, and both president barroso and i really believe that we have to change the current system. i fully share the view of those who have said here that the final decision on the validity of an impact assessment cannot be taken by those who have made it, and it cannot be the sole responsibility of those who make the relevant legislation to deal with an impact assessment. president barroso and i agree. we're discussing the best possible solution. the president said in his opening statement that he was considering setting up an independent body under his own responsibility to review the impact assessment. we are therefore happy to continue to talk to parliament. the same applies to the comitology procedure, where we largely support parliament's concerns, and to all the other suggestions that have been made here. i would like to remind you once again that this is a project which we must not treat in a technical, bureaucratic or formal way. it's a highly political project, highly political! it is intended to help to strengthen citizens' confidence in the overall system of european integration and to help to provide our economy with a stable and reliable framework for solving the great social question of our time, the question of the future of our jobs.
european legislation is too complex and sometimes superfluous: an intelligent renovation must make it possible to combat this unhealthy and damaging opacity! on the one hand, improvements are needed by reducing and simplifying existing legislation. in this simplification work, as in all new measures adopted, the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity must be respected: the european union where necessary, when it is more efficient than the states acting alone, as much as necessary, but not more than necessary. the application of these apparently technical principles implies judging their social, cultural or other appropriateness, even though no effective control mechanism for their application exists! this gap was filled by the draft constitution. in the meantime, we must ask ourselves how they are being applied. on the other hand, the control of the transposition of community law must be improved, because legal uncertainty is undermining the competitiveness of our enterprises. the establishment of national correspondents is a positive measure if the controls include a quantitative and qualitative analysis and an analysis of the impact on the social, economic and ecological environment. these impact analyses must be comparable and therefore must be standardised. to achieve this, the european parliament must strengthen its power in this area.
author. mr commissioner, i believe that when the commission has been notified of the first employment contract, it will be important for it to be able to draw up a precise analysis of the conditions under which this law authorizes, in respect of young people under the age of 26, treatment which allows the employment contract to be terminated during the first two years. as you said, directive 2078 allows for differential treatment, including age-related treatment, but only in the context of positive measures, measures which are proportionate to the objective pursued. recently, a judgment was handed down by the court of justice - mangold judgment of 22 november 2005 - which concerned another piece of legislation, the german hartz 4 law on provisions for older workers. the court held that the method of renewing fixedterm contracts solely for these older workers was not proportionate to the objective pursued. i believe that in the case of the first employment contract, no one can consider that the measure in question is favourable to young people under the age of 26. it is therefore discrimination against them, depriving them of the benefit of a number of elements of labour law. i hope that the commission will rely on the case law of the court of justice to condemn this epc.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, my group has never advocated an unconsidered increase in the budget. we also believe that the budget is not the only instrument available to the union to promote healthy growth and balanced development. so it would probably be a great help if the european central bank played a different role in this respect. nevertheless, the budget is always an expression of political will. it is inconsistent to have great ambitions and then deny the necessary financial means to achieve them. this is particularly true of enlargement, which everyone knew, even before the process was launched, would involve legitimate expenditure, particularly under the structural and cohesion funds. that is why even parliament's initial requests and the böge report seemed to us to fall far short of the financial requirements corresponding to the commitments made. that is to say, whether we share parliament's decision to reject the compromise of radin of the european council last december. you were right, mr president, to recall at the time the dismal cuts that such financial prospects would entail and to call for funds for education, research, transeuropean networks, cooperation, etc. in view of these objectives, the 1.5% increase requested by our negotiators was in itself very modest: 1.5% of 1.04% of the union's gross national income. but for the council, it was still three times too much. in these circumstances, my group's position is that our credibility is at stake in refusing this shenanigans and that we must therefore take responsibility.
mr president, we all agreed on the modesty of the approximately one trillion euro, which is supposed to cover seven years of the european budget, whereas the budget of the united states of america, for a single year, is two thousand five hundred billion dollars. in these circumstances, to say in lisbon that europe will be the most competitive economy in the world by 2010 is to behave like nikita khrushchev, who said in 1960 in the un podium: 'in ten years the soviet union will have overtaken the united states'. so, from this point of view, the proposals we are registering here, even with the success of a few thousand euros more, remain equally inadequate to the need for investment, recognized by all, in laboratories, hospitals, universities, retirement homes, tgvs, etc. the council and parliament have therefore only diverged on the 'zero point something' aspect of gdp, because it is the same inspiration that can be summed up in two words: malthusianism for economic policy and fundamentalism for budgetary policy. malthusianism is everywhere in the union, in the cap, the quotas, the fallow land, the grape harvesting. the european parliament, right here, is making its catering staff and drivers live in misery, and they are paid the shameful sum of eur 1 000 a month! it is economic misery that is reflected in the integrity of our budgetary policies and the budgetary technique of the union's financial regulation. everything is done to curb the expense! the principle of budgetary balance is laid down in the union's financial regulation. we have to go back, mr barroso, to dr salazar to find the same principle, whereas the united states, in a century, has had only 38 balanced budgets. in other words, if we wanted to revise our financial prospects, it was the ultra-liberal ideology that supported them that needed to be revised, but to question the three viruses of anglo-saxon thought - malthus, adam smith and ricardo - was another matter.
mr president, the french will take two things from the council. the first is that when a frenchman speaks english, the president leaves the room. the second is that when a journalist asks him whether a law enacted should be applied, the answer is "yes" in brussels and "no" in paris! you have to get used to it, no matter how hard you work, that's what the french have picked up. this country is roaring; in ten months, it experienced three revolts: the first was manifested by the ballot box, it expressed a form of hostility to capitalism; the second was the riot in our suburbs, which was a form of protest against discrimination. the third, through strike action and demonstration, expresses a form of revolt against all the precariousness of work. i take it from this that, for your next council more than for this one, whatever you have done there, there is an aspiration that must be met - excuse me for speaking a little more about my country - namely, trust between us. our fellow citizens felt that there was much more of each for himself in the period. france must take its share of responsibility, because it is not a stranger to this, but it is not alone. so you have to have trust and faith together according to its latin origin. the commission and the council must follow this path. another aspect concerns protection, because in a certain sense our citizens fear that europe is not protecting them enough. good luck with that.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank you for your encouraging words on the austrian presidency's half-term, but we are not resting on our laurels - there are none anyway - but we want to continue to work hard with you. a few brief remarks. first, the goals: how would we like it? should we set goals? then, of course, comes the criticism: and where is the implementation? or should we not set goals? i am rather of the opinion that we should dare to set concrete, verifiable targets, at the risk that perhaps one or other country, perhaps the whole of the european union, will not achieve everything one hundred percent as we have planned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we were able to create 2 million additional jobs in the european union in 2005, and we have - we should be proud of that - now with the relatively good economic situation, with the beginning of the recovery in many european countries, a real opportunity that we should not squander. of course, this includes national commitment and infrastructure funding. we are doing very well in austria, for example, and other countries will do the same. but the objectives are necessary! to some who have said that we should abolish the european council altogether: i really think that is wrong. we need to invest more time and energy. we may even have to meet more often - maybe with a little less thunder and media interest around. but real, hard work is necessary if we are to achieve anything. the second point is that some speakers have said that they are not entirely satisfied with the financial perspective and have measured everything against the original proposal of the prodi commission. you're all professionals, you know perfectly well that this proposal was unrealistic. we cannot now say that we have proposed 200 billion euros less than we did then. if you compare it to what we've had in the last seven years, we're up by over 100 billion. we have seen enormous increases, particularly in the programmes which are important to you, honourable members. take the case of research and development: over the next seven-year period, the budget is expected to grow by more than 75%. trans-european networks: doubled in size. lifelong learning: increased by 50%. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the neighbourhood policy: plus 40%. the foreign policy budget: increased by 250%. we have two choices: either we send a message to the outside world that this is all too little. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. or we say, this is a big step forward towards the goals we have set ourselves. then people will take it seriously and say, "this is an important step forward. i repeat, everyone knows this, and everyone knows my situation: the balance between those who have to pay and those who are the recipients. all this must be financed from national budgets. you know that. the only solution is to redefine own resources. it's the only way. the fact that we have actually produced this financial forecast is a great success. i would like to thank josé manuel barroso, all the political groups, the president of parliament and the negotiators. it has not been easy, but we now have the opportunity to get to work right away. i am also asking for broad support, because people want to hear that we are making a difference, not just that we are fighting among the factions, among the institutions. the question of whether 500 million more could have been raised or whether the council has not already offered 500 million too much is of no interest to anyone outside. the important question is: can we now get to work for the next seven years in the interests of the people and in the interests of europe? i am prepared to do so and i very much hope that we will work together on the constitutional question as well, so that in june we may not have the solution yet, but we will have outlined a way of arriving at a better legal basis, which we all need. (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think the main points have been said, but i would also like to sum up my analysis of this debate as showing support for the conclusions of the european council in general. if we want to make an honest assessment we have to recognize that, on the whole, these results were recognized as positive. it is obvious that not all members were fully satisfied, because there is naturally a difference of views. but the truth is that we can see results in the energy sector, in small and mediumsized enterprises, in research, in the employment objectives, in general in the new governance system of the lisbon strategy, and we have also confirmed at the european council level a consensus on the services directive. i would like to stress in particular, with regard to energy, that our work in the european council is by no means over and if you look at the results of yesterday's commission meeting you will see that the commission is determined to enforce all the principles of community law: full respect for the internal market and the rules of competition. if we want to be credible, not only internally but also externally, it is essential that this happens. the austrian presidency, and also the european commission, have made a particularly important contribution to small and mediumsized enterprises by reducing the bureaucracy that hinders so many of the enterprise initiatives that can create more jobs. in terms of research, it was particularly important that, for the first time, all member states were able to agree on concrete objectives in terms of investment in research and innovation. it was also important that there was general support for the idea of the european institute of technology and that the european commission had now been given a mandate to submit a proposal. the fact that ambitions have been set in terms of employment has also been very helpful. i would like to stress one new aspect of this european council, which chancellor schüssel did not mention, but which i think is important to stress. we are already working in terms of 'team presidencies' in a sense. the chancellor schüssel, as president of the council, gave the floor on each point not only to introduce the debate to the european commission but also to the next presidencies, the finnish, german, portuguese and slovenian presidencies. i think this is important in order to ensure continuity and sustainability in the european council's efforts. the european commission can also provide this continuity and consistency over time, because as good as the council presidencies are, they change every six months, so there needs to be a continuous effort, which can only be guaranteed with the commission taking the initiative to a large extent and with the constant support of the european parliament. these points were positive. the confirmation of agreement in principle on the services directive was also positive, as were the news we received last night, or early this morning, on the financial perspectives. i am absolutely convinced that if we achieve concrete results, if we succeed in solving the problems one by one, we will be able to make progress in this europe of projects, regain the confidence of our citizens and find a better environment for solving some institutional questions that need to be solved. that is why i think realistically that we can look with a better attitude to the european council in june which obviously will not be able to resolve the constitutional question but which will certainly be able to point a way to define the future of europe. the european commission is also actively working with the council in this regard and we hope to make a useful contribution. with this team spirit, with this spirit of partnership, europe can and must move forward. (applause) i would like to thank
we expect a lot, sometimes too much, from the european councils. the one just held at the end of march was mainly devoted to the economic aspects of european integration. europe is facing a major problem, the scale and urgency of which was demonstrated by the russian-ukrainian crisis in january: the absence of a common energy policy. several countries have been particularly active on this subject, which is crucial for the independence of our countries, including france, which proposed a memorandum which was the subject of a broad consensus. the european council launched an ambitious strategy for secure, competitive and sustainable energy for europe. this is a major step forward, and we must now make it a reality. the spring european council also decided to double the european budgetary effort for research and innovation over the period 2007-13. this is essential for the competitiveness of our economies and, therefore, for europe's place in the world vis-à-vis the emerging countries. in parallel, the european council formalised the creation of a globalisation adjustment fund, which was widely requested by our citizens. europe is indeed going through a difficult period, but this should not obscure the positive signals that the establishment of instruments of economic progress and solidarity represents.
to make the european union the most competitive knowledge-based economy by 2010 implies, in my view, two priorities: investing massively in r & d expenditure and removing constraints on business, especially the smallest ones. the european budget, despite the improved agreement obtained by the european parliament, will not allow for these massive investments. the european council's call for the eib to step up its r & d activities is, in this context, an innovative and pragmatic solution, if €30 billion can actually be mobilised through this. this may not be enough to overcome the chronic shortfall in european r & d expenditure and a major effort remains to be made to reach the target of 3% of gdp. it is essential to involve the private sector in this effort, since we can see that public budgets are insufficient. so we need to go further in taxation to encourage companies to invest more easily in r & d. this voluntary policy is what we expect from the revised lisbon strategy, which must provide a stimulating, effective and above all simplified european regulatory framework for european businesses.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. if there is an alternative to strasbourg, i am in favour of discussing it. i've always said that. only that to do so through such procedures is absurd and unfair. the council has not yet adopted the common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer. whether mr titley understands english or german or french, he should just look at the contracts. it would do the blair government good to do this sometimes. (applause from the right) that is why i think we should have a debate on strasbourg again, but not in this way. we should vote on our calendar this week. mr titley, what makes you think that we are not filling the agenda here? if you represented mr. schulz at the conference of presidents, you'd know that what you're saying is a lie, and it doesn't match the facts. (applause from the centre)
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague hannu takkula on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing the programme to promote european citizenship for the period 2007-2013. it is essential to highlight the originality of the european construction, which is to offer europeans dual citizenship: national and european. the ability of the member states to display common ambitions while affirming our values depends very directly on the involvement of the peoples in the construction of europe. so we all have to work on it. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament, and in particular the members of the european parliament in relation to our colleagues in the national parliaments who represent the national citizenship of the inhabitants of the member states. european citizenship is the cement that must be promoted everywhere with the pride of belonging to a special and unique process in the world: the construction of the european union which is not a nation but the creation, in peace and through democracy, of a humanist civilization.
in writing. the citizens for europe programme is only a propaganda tool for the european union. the report notes that the constitutional treaty has been rejected in france and the netherlands and that europeans are sceptical about enlargement, which implies turkey. but far from drawing the conclusions of this stinging denial, this report wants to "re-educate" the citizens! an initiative that has long proved its worth as a twinning of cities is being shamelessly taken up while millions are being poured into associations and communication actions. one amendment, the 14th, even encourages communitarian action! the report refers to the action in the field of sport and says, and i quote, 'this way passive or even eurosceptic citizens can be involved': you really want to go after the citizen who is not lulled by your illusions! the neologism of 'active' european values promoted by this report means nothing, a value is neither active nor passive, it is not a switch that is activated, except to behave like you, as ideologues.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commission, high representative, it is difficult to be intelligent, to have a course of action, and at the same time to be confronted by interlocutors who, on either side, only want to hear half the truth. so you have a palestinian government that wants to unilaterally define what palestine is and what israel should not be, and an israeli government that wants to unilaterally define what israel is and what the palestinian state should not be. in this situation, i think we should take concrete examples. so if you take the problem of drinking water in this region - mrs de keyser spoke of bird flu - well you cannot deal with the problem of drinking water or bird flu without there being negotiations between the palestinian government and the israeli government, because drinking water comes from the west bank and goes to israel. it's the same water. if the european union does not provide the 230 million dollars, there will be no drinking water in israel or the west bank. who's going to win? no one is! take the avian flu, for example. if it touches gaza, then it touches israel. you can't stop it, any more than unilateral withdrawal of israel could! it's not possible. not even israel can do that. there are therefore situations in which the european union can force governments to negotiate because their vital interests require it, and the environment is one of those examples. secondly, as far as the road map is concerned, why not make a quartet a quintet? let's integrate the arab league, let's take the four plus the arab league, let's negotiate saying: "there is the arab league, so mr abbas and israel will have to negotiate at the same time with the quartet plus the arab league". and perhaps there will be intelligent human beings to ban some representatives of the palestinians from the delegation of the arab league, which would not be stupid. so we can and we must invent, we must be clever, and we must say things clearly. the wall is not just security, it is a territorial conquest, it is unilateral, it is against all the principles of the european union, just as the non-recognition of israel was against the principles of the european union. both are against the principles of the european union and this must be explained. a wall in the 1967 borders is one thing; a wall as it stands today is a territorial conquest and we cannot accept that. in conclusion, let me say one thing: we must be very clear with each other and with each other and tell them that our principles are our principles. that way, we can force them to negotiate together. the last point about mr abbas: it is true that he was elected, but i come from a country where a certain jacques chirac was elected with 82% of the vote and who, despite all that, is now supported by very few french people.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, mr solana, well-informed people in israeli society assure us, after the elections, that the majority of the country's population is now determined to accept, whether they like it or not, the idea that the occupation of the palestinian territories is in every respect a dead end from which to emerge. unfortunately, the new prime minister is continuing the strategy of his predecessor, namely, on the one hand, unilateral separation on the basis of facts which make it impossible to build a viable palestinian state and, on the other hand, the immediate suffocation of the palestinian people in an attempt to make them surrender. this policy is irresponsible. yesterday, the leading israeli daily haaretz, quoting the united nations, ran the headline, "gaza is on the brink of disaster". in nablus in the west bank, young people under the age of thirty are no longer allowed to leave their city! kalandia, in the middle of palestinian territory, has just been turned into a border! east jerusalem is surrounded! what then is the meaning of the proposal to negotiate with the head of the palestinian authority, who is being discredited as in the recent jericho coup? in this context, it is almost pathetic to see new peace initiatives emerging from palestinian and israeli societies, such as the peace fighters initiative, which will be launched publicly next monday. these are former israeli army officers who have allied themselves with former palestinian armed fighters and who have drawn from their respective experience the common conviction that the solution to the problems of the region can only be political and based on the relevant un resolutions since 1967. we all salute the foresight and courage of such women and men! but what do they expect from the european union? aid alone is not enough: every people needs freedom as much as bread. the fact remains that the withdrawal of aid, even if it is partial and temporary, by causing the collapse of the last shreds of palestinian social, administrative and security structures would, for a long time, cast a shadow over any hope of a just peace. more generally, what political role should europe play today? mr solana has just mentioned the european council in venice in 1980, which is a good reference. a quarter of a century ago, at another pivotal moment in the history of the middle east, we were able to take responsibility. we had then officially recognized the plo and embraced the principle of "two peoples, two states". the present moment, it seems to me, calls for a new strong european action. this action must aim at restoring clear benchmarks for a legal perspective and at reviving hope for the peacekeepers throughout the region. it is in this spirit that i have put forward the idea of our own institution playing a catalyst role: it could decide to convene its conference of presidents in east jerusalem to send a real message of peace to all the protagonists.
mr president, first of all a few observations. firstly, the demographic problem has been at the heart of the political debate; secondly, it is the end of the greater israel utopia; thirdly, the social issue has been at the heart of the debate in israel and, fourthly, hamas has not influenced the elections in israel. there has been a definitive recognition of two states among the israelis, unconsciously. the time should be now for negotiations, but we must act on hamas so that it will rescind its charter and finally recognize israel as a valid interlocutor. otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, there will be unilateral policy on both sides. public opinion in both countries is in favour of peace. europe must take advantage of this situation because its role is now paramount. europe is expected, and as far as aid to the palestinians is concerned, i repeat that europe must continue to provide aid, otherwise there will be a catastrophe in palestine.
the agenda calls for the commission's declaration on world health day.
member of the commission. mr president, the global shortage of doctors, nurses and other health professionals has reached a crisis point in many parts of the world. ageing populations in europe, the united states and most wealthy countries, combined with increasingly sophisticated medical treatments that require specialised staff, mean that demand for health workers in the developed world is outstripping supply. indeed, the demand for health workers is not only outstripping our internal capacity to produce doctors and nurses: it is placing a huge strain on the international market for health workers. however, the shortage of health workers in rich nations does not even begin to approach the severe shortages being experienced in many parts of africa, where the lack of health workers can often mean the difference between life and death. with less than one health worker per 1000 people in africa, compared to over 10 health workers per 1000 people in europe, it is hardly surprising that the shocking and unacceptable death toll of children and their mothers continues. more than one in five children die before their fifth birthday and more than one in a hundred mothers die as a result of complications of pregnancy in many african countries. progress towards the millennium development goals in africa is unacceptably slow, with progress reversal in some countries as a consequence of hiv/aids. the burden of caring for the sick falls on families and communities who have few resources to cope with this significant burden. the world health report for 2006 focuses international attention on the health worker shortage, and is very much welcomed. it puts a spotlight on a crisis that has been evolving over many years, but that now represents probably the most significant barrier to progressing towards the health-related millennium development goals – reducing maternal and child mortality and controlling communicable diseases such as hiv/aids, tb and malaria. without doctors, nurses, pharmacists and other health workers, it will be impossible to improve healthcare, or to meet our commitments to increase access to essential services. the causes of this crisis are complex. there has been chronic under-investment in health services in developing countries for many years, including under-investment in training of health workers. many countries in africa are still trying to run their health services on a budget of less than eur 10 per capita – that is much less than the minimum of eur 30 recognised as necessary for providing essential services. but the problem is not just lack of investment in africa. many countries in europe and elsewhere have underinvested and inadequately planned for health worker training to meet the needs of ageing populations. the rich world can attract health workers from other countries; the consequences for poor countries is that they train health workers who leave the country, effectively providing a perverse subsidy to health services in developed countries, by shouldering the burden of training costs. training more health workers worldwide is only part of the solution. many health workers who are trained do not want to work in the poorest and most remote areas where needs are greatest. there is a pattern of internal migration from rural to urban areas, and from the public to the private sector, and from poor countries to richer neighbouring countries and then to the richer, developed world. however, it is difficult to blame the individual, once you have seen the conditions under which they have to work. we need to better understand the motivations of health workers, and to create incentive systems that encourage them to work where there is the greatest need. the ‘push’ factors of poor working conditions, low salaries – which are paid irregularly, lack of drugs and equipment and lack of career prospects all contribute to the migration of health workers. indeed, it is surprising that, given these poor conditions, you still get a hard core of dedicated health workers in many african countries who continue to do a remarkable job in very difficult circumstances. it is important not to lose sight of the achievement and the increasable contribution of many health workers who continue to serve their people, despite the challenges of their jobs and working environment. the ‘pull’ factors for migration – better salaries in rich countries, better working conditions and greater security, which are sometimes coupled with aggressive recruitment practices by private recruitment agencies – also play a significant role in increasing health worker mobility. these issues have all been described in the communication from the commission to parliament on the eu strategy of action to address the crisis in human resources for health in developing countries. if we are to overcome the crisis, developing solutions must begin in the countries most affected and must support strengthening of their planning and financing of health worker training, support and finance, and improved terms of conditions of services. it is essential that country action be supported by regional and global action, sharing knowledge and best practice, sharing training resources and changing international recruitment policies to make them more ethical. it is important that we look closely at our own health worker training programmes and increase our own production capacity, to make us more self-sufficient. the commission has been leading and coordinating the development of a coherent european response. the communication on human resources for health has been debated and strong conclusions are due to be adopted by the council. eu member states have agreed a statement of commitment, which is being announced for world health day. that should demonstrate to the rest of the world that europe takes this issue seriously and will support a significant response to the crisis.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although we may wonder about the often ephemeral nature and effectiveness of these world days devoted to this or that great cause, it is nevertheless an opportunity for us to highlight a dramatic situation, the shortage of health personnel in the south, to which little attention is usually paid, and to formulate proposals to be implemented in the short, medium and long term. this is why it is necessary to include these health objectives in multiannual financial programming, which would make it possible to increase the predictability of the european union funds which are so lacking today and to support more concretely the national strategies for strengthening health personnel. it is important to remember that the problem we are raising today is not a stroke of bad luck due to fate. this shortage of health personnel is the result, among other things, of so-called 'structural adjustment' programmes, which have been brutally implemented by the international financial institutions and have led to the collapse of public health and education services in many countries. so it is "a little too much" hypocrisy to proclaim in 2006 a stated desire to strengthen health human resources for the years ahead, when macroeconomic financial policies at another level have been undermining these same resources for more than a decade. we are pleased, however, that there has been a late awareness of the absolute need to invest in human resources, without which no development policy, however virtuous, can be implemented. the european union's action in this area should therefore be oriented in three directions. on the one hand, as has already been said, the volume devoted to health issues in the context of official development assistance. today it is about 5%. it is notoriously inadequate and the prospects are not very encouraging, whereas at least 20% of the budget should be devoted to this, particularly to cover wage costs for training and all the other matters we have already discussed. secondly, to put an end to the budgetary restrictions imposed by the international financial institutions. the european union has a strong presence in these bodies, particularly with regard to the salary ceiling and recruitment in the civil service. finally, a code of ethics which would help to remedy the scandal of double-tracking in terms of status and pay in the north. we must fight against such recruitment, which is practised in many of our countries, and put an end to the principle of country of origin. in conclusion, we hope that these generous declarations of intent will be followed up with real results, thanks to the very strong commitment of the institutions of the european union and the european parliament in particular, and also thanks to the campaign initiated by the ngos and european civil society.
mr president, commissioner, the right to health is a universal value. the progress made over the last 50 years has been extraordinary, but at the same time the costs have been rising. we also find it very difficult to accept that prevention is much cheaper than repair. we are facing a real health crisis because of a lack of foresight and, above all, because of a purely accounting view of health policy. the right to health is therefore a universal value. so it is not just europe that is affected, but the whole world, and even more so the developing countries. the acknowledged shortage of training for medical personnel (doctors, nurses, etc.) in the european union has the consequence that member states rely on doctors from developing countries, which makes the shortage even more serious in these countries. i would therefore like to stress three points. first, that there is a need to train health workers in developing countries and to make sure that they stay there, which means better planning of medical organization in europe and the united states. secondly, we have seen the development of serious pandemics around the world in recent decades. developing countries are the most vulnerable because they lack the means to inform and raise awareness, and they lack the treatment to eradicate diseases like aids, malaria, tuberculosis, and they lack the personnel to do so. thirdly, i would like our resolution to be more specific on the essential points, in particular the availability of medicines. i think that the problem here is again a lack of staff, because there is no one to take over. i therefore welcome the actions taken by certain european firms which, in solidarity with the people, are distributing the medicines or vaccines that are indispensable. when we know how difficult it is to undertake such distributions in countries where there is no infrastructure, no qualified staff and sometimes no political will at all, we can only acknowledge the obligation of the european union to do everything possible to support and even increase these efforts. unfortunately, the proposals made by the commission are largely inadequate to this end, and the so-called agreement on the financial perspective will not improve matters. who are they kidding again? the most serious problem is that these are fragile populations, including women and children, who are the first victims of our failures.
member of the commission. mr president, i am very impressed by the passionate contributions on this very important issue. the process that the commission is leading to develop an eu response to the human resources crisis demonstrates the strength of greater european coordination. the collective commitment of member states and of the commission is likely to have a much greater impact than the commission or member states working alone. the response to the human resources crisis reflects the principle set out in the european consensus on development. it is the member states’ commitment to increase the overall levels of development assistance, moving towards the target of 0.7% of gni as oda, that will provide the increasing budget for accelerated progress. but it is the coordinated efforts of the european community that will ensure that the increased resources are more efficiently spent, providing coordinated, coherent backing for country-led and developed plans. we believe that better coordinated and more coherent implementation of our common european policy, reflecting the commitments made in the paris declaration on aid effectiveness, provides the best means for a drastic increase in human and social development spending. that needs to be prioritised by the member states and reflected in our common policy. that is why the commission has proposed a package of concrete measures on aid effectiveness. the package will allow the european union to deliver more, faster and better aid. at the paris aid effectiveness meeting, the european union made a commitment to increase the proportion of aid it provides as budget support. that commitment includes the potential to increase funding for both general and sector budget support, complemented, if necessary, by project-type funding. delegations making programming decisions for the 10th edf therefore have a choice of aid instruments with which to respond to nationally defined priorities. there is considerable scope for the national decision-making and country programming processes to focus increased effort on the health or social sectors through sector budget support, if that is prioritised at country level. i should just like to answer some of the more specific questions that have been raised. on the question of a code of conduct, i can confirm that the commission is willing to consider how to develop and implement a european code of conduct for the ethical recruitment of health workers. on the question of tailored medicine, which was raised by two members, we are currently supporting a study on the potential of trying to make better use of the available efforts as part of our partnership with the african union. corruption is indeed a problem for development and particularly damaging for the delivery of key social services, such as health. as you know, we agreed on the need to address that problem through a whole range of measures. tomorrow we will have plenty of time to have a more in-depth discussion, when we discuss mr van den berg’s excellent report on the issue. several members have mentioned the question of the proportion of development funds that is allocated to human and social development. most commission financing is allocated through country programming. currently, over 20% of the commission’s development budget is allocated to social infrastructure. in addition, general budget support financing includes linkage to progress measured against health indicators and is therefore a mechanism for supporting and reinforcing country-level prioritisation of the millennium development goals. the commission will be increasing the proportion of development assistance given as budget support and will seek to increase the link between budget support and progress towards the millennium development goals. the decision on the proportion of financing allocated by countries to human and social development is ultimately a question for national governments. the commission will continue in its policy dialogue with governments to emphasise the importance of human and social development for economic growth and for poverty reduction.
i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure, six motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for the proposal for a council regulation amending regulations (eec) no 2771/75 and (eec) no 2777/75 as regards the application of exceptional market support measures (poultry sector) (com (2006) 0153 - c6-0111/2006 - 2006/0055 (cns)).
mr president, i shall be very quick tonight to try to save time. i would simply like to thank the commission for acting swiftly last week on the council's proposal. parliament has shown that it is just as effective and, if all the institutions are involved, it is clear that we can make the right decisions in eight days to respond to natural disasters and help the victims. i agree with all my colleagues on the committee on agriculture on the rest, and we have already spoken a great deal about avian influenza. we have been quick for once and we cannot say that it is because of europe that farmers will have to wait for compensation.
mr president, i would just like to welcome the measures which are being proposed tonight and which will hopefully be voted on tomorrow. action was needed because in some countries this crisis is now affecting many farmers and the sector itself, including the jobs involved. i would also like to say a word about the way in which measures should be taken, particularly those relating to the management of markets. on this subject, and as my group has said before, i would like to see 100% european funding given priority over co-financing. beyond these remarks, it seems to me that the time has come for europe to reflect on how we apply the precautionary principle to all the health and other problems that may affect our states and the continent as a whole. i think that if europe does not take care of this precautionary principle itself, there is a great risk that, through cascading and serial effects, coupled with the fact that each state does not necessarily have all the information or does not process it in the most adequate way, as has been the case in recent months, we will have crises that affect entire sectors, industrial or agricultural. secondly, we are asking agriculture and the com, in this case the poultry sector, to compensate for the consequences which are not linked to structures or the agricultural sector, but to panic phenomena, as has been said and very well said, with examples, tonight. i therefore believe that we must have a comprehensive policy at european level to deal with these crises and ensure that the measures are taken at european level and apply to all. the crisis we are going through is an example for the future. it must lead us to reflect on agriculture, but also and above all on other sectors such as public health, with the aim of putting the precautionary principle into practice at european level.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by sincerely thanking you for the very broad support that we have had for this change in the cmo. i shall now make some comments on the 23 amendments. in amendments 1, 2 and 22 you asked for a list of the different support measures to be put into the council regulation. as i have said previously, it is important to give a certain flexibility to the member states. they should decide themselves which tools they want to use. i do not want to bind their hands, but i have clearly said that it is important that we try to address the problems upstream. but ultimately i leave it to the member states. some of the measures stated in your various amendments are going in the same direction. however, i should just like to mention one of them concerning the financing of an information campaign; this in fact belongs to a completely different legal framework. therefore, i believe that some of the other measures proposed deserve to be looked into further. once again, i must underline that the purpose of this change of regulation is to try to fill in the legal gap that we have experienced and then allow the member states to suggest the different possibilities that they consider to be the most efficient for them. therefore, while i have some sympathy for some of the measures you have proposed, i cannot accept or introduce them into the regulation as has been suggested. some of you mentioned co-financing, which is proposed in 11 of your amendments. we have had the possibility of discussing this issue on several occasions when we amended our regulation on exceptional market measures. the commission considers that co-financing on market support measures is an important way to ensure that member states assume their share of the responsibility for the handling of different crises linked to health issues. we use this type of co-financing in relation to our veterinary measures, and we have had more than ten years’ experience in the co-financing of related exceptional market measures. it is not the time for changing this approach and i am therefore not in a position to accept those amendments. on the information campaign you asked for in amendments 1, 2, 16, 17 and 22, it is not the kind of measure that fits into this proposal. however, there is a council regulation on internal promotion for european agricultural products, and i have asked my services to prepare an amendment to the existing commission regulation so that when the time is right generic promotion of poultry meat would be eligible for european funding. it would be a waste of money to start a promotion campaign at this stage, but i can assure you that when the time is right, then all the legal aspects will be settled so that we can act immediately. on amendments 8, 9 and 23, i do not think it necessary to exclude certain measures on animal welfare grounds. the slaughter of animals is not a priority in the intended measures and the commission will propose action in line with the different animal welfare standards. nor can i support amendment 7 on export refunds. the commission uses the export refund instrument in a prudent way, taking into account our different responsibilities within our international commitments regarding this instrument. on soft loans, i do not exclude at this stage any potential national proposal, provided that it does not destroy or distort competition. that is quite clear, and i can promise – as is already the case – that i will act as quickly as possible on any proposal put on my desk from the different member states. on vaccination, member states that decide on a vaccination policy should examine carefully the possible consequences that such a step might have on their international trade. trade problems created by vaccination cannot, in my view, justify the use of exceptional market support measures based on the new article 14. let me turn to article 14 in the existing council legislative text, which was the subject of a question: member states shall ensure that where producers contribute to the expenditure borne by member states, this does not result in distortion of competition between producers in different member states. i would like simply to underline that this was the wording we put into the discussion we had last year on co-financing. finally, on procedure: the european union’s swift handling of this proposal is another sign of its credibility as a valuable partner in tackling the problems that might arise within the agricultural sector. once again, it has been a great pleasure for me to do business with you. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon.
the rapporteur. mr president, the report on the work of the joint parliamentary assembly for 2005 is indeed on the agenda. i will not go into the details of the report, but will simply refer to two sessions, the one in bamako in april 2005 and the one in edinburgh in november 2005, not to mention the next session, which will be held in vienna in june 2006. i would like to stress the importance of the fact that, as was the case this year, the sessions organized in europe are held in the country of the presidency. it seems to me to be extremely logical to maintain and perpetuate the system adopted two years ago. i would also like to emphasize the very strong participation of our colleagues from the acp countries, and they should be congratulated. at the same time, we have carried out six joint missions and let me stress for the first time - and i will do so again - the adjective 'joint'. it is essential that the permanent assembly and the missions share a common vision. it would be pointless to do otherwise. i would also like to point out the increasing number of cross-votes between the acp countries and the european union representation. in my view, the practice of separate colleges should be used as little as possible without necessarily being removed from our rules of procedure. it is true, however, that the ultimate objective would be to organise more and more votes to achieve an acp/eu majority. it also appears that our colleagues in the acp countries are less involved, i would say intellectually. i mean that we agreed with them that what we considered to be an expense - in fact the eu's expense in the acp budget - is a revenue for them. the need for parliamentary control at both levels is becoming increasingly clear in their minds. to this end, we ourselves have asked for the edf to be budgetized, in order to guarantee parliamentary control over the use of this community expenditure, but in parallel the parliaments of the acp countries must also submit what they consider to be a recipe to parliamentary control. this is a joint battle we must wage to ensure that parliamentary control is recognized as absolutely necessary. as regards the future of the acp, i welcome the amendment to the cotonou agreement. the budget for the tenth edf now stands at eur 22.682 billion. we have already made demands in this house on this amount, which is not in line with our expectations: 24 billion euros. the austrian presidency has already replied. i have no doubt that my colleagues will be speaking on this subject again shortly to ask for a realignment. it is not a question of repeating the same questions over and over again, but of expecting answers that are stronger than those which have been put to us. the edf surplus is also a problem. it amounts to nearly 11 billion euros to date, which naturally raises questions about the procedure and the ambition of the projects discussed, because it is intolerable that 11 billion euros may not yet have been spent in countries where the needs are so acute. what future for the fed? if we keep our political commitments in 2010 and if we manage to spend 0.56% of our gdp on development aid, then the european union will allocate an additional 50 billion euros a year to this budget, even though it had politically committed to only spending half of this amount on africa, namely 25 billion euros. it is clear that if this policy is respected, the additional aid available will in fact correspond to an annual edf budget. and yet, when we look at how we spend this budget, we can only ask questions. i also wonder about the share of aid to developing countries (dacs) that will be managed by the european union, which will be around 20%. in this case, although the word may be a little strong, the edf will be relegated to the status of a marginal aid instrument. the problem of budgetizing it, which is absolutely necessary and must be done as soon as possible, and of its 'fungibility', that is, the possibility of giving very ambitious regional projects, such as railway infrastructure, a place in the general framework of action of the european union, is therefore even more acute. this would ensure coordination between the member states and the european union. the edf can become this lever of coordination and the joint parliamentary assembly can become a specific element of control, since all the least developed countries in the world are members of the joint parliamentary assembly. finally, there is the problem of the readability of the european union's action. what i have just described as community expenditure on development aid is paid for by our taxpayers. as such, the action must be legible because the populists should not take the figures i have announced to you and exclaim: "what the hell are you doing with all this money?" we therefore need a political vision and clarity of this issue.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the report by my colleague, thierry cornillet, illustrates the quality of the work carried out by the joint parliamentary assembly in 2005. the apa is a forum for permanent political dialogue which is becoming an instrument for preventing, resolving conflicts and supporting the democratic process. the role of the apa is therefore very valuable in the framework of the cotonou agreements. it is a unique tool for north-south dialogue. and tomorrow it must do better, especially in major crisis situations, such as darfur, if we give it the means. this is first of all the responsibility of the european union, which must give political priority to this partnership with the acp countries, by respecting its commitments in the current negotiations on the amount of the tenth edf, and finally by stopping taking from one hand what it gives from the other, and the sugar reform is an example of this. finally, in giving the app the political consideration it deserves, let us finally put into practice what is mentioned in the cotonou agreement, namely that the assembly should meet in europe in the country holding the presidency of the union. if we do not welcome our acp partners at a discount, we would be giving a very bad political signal. but it's also the responsibility of the app itself! it must make progress in its reform, in the working methods, and the next development could be achieved through regional conferences. we could set that target for early 2007. finally, we in the app also have a political responsibility, for example by refraining from using separate voting colleges, which is not only a denial of parity but also the way that is now too often used to change the outcome of a vote. i find all this in the cornillet report and i therefore believe that it is a road map for us for 2006.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would also like to thank margrietus van den berg for her excellent report. he'll be covered with laurels, that's what he is. it is clear that the fight against corruption is absolutely essential, not only for the effectiveness of european aid but also for its credibility. how can we convince our fellow citizens or the member states to give more if corruption is still rampant? it is also a condition for the viability of a rule of law and an economy. it is therefore a vital battle that we must constantly fight, a battle that has become somewhat more complex with economic globalisation, because of the easy movement of capital, and also because of the new process of budgetary support at the level of the european union. the rapporteur stresses all the issues raised by this new system of budget support in the fight against corruption, as well as the increased difficulty in the present context, due to the increasing pressure on raw materials and, in particular, on oil energy, which is becoming scarce. there is also reason to fear a resurgence of corruption in the quest for access to the last remaining fossil-fuel reserves, as well as an increase in conflicts over arms trade and smuggling. the arms and oil industries are the two major sectors, on a macro-economic scale, in which considerable corruption is taking place. the rapporteur rightly stresses two issues: transparency and accountability. transparency is essential if we are to have a clear and precise picture of the budgets that are being used. in this area, we must indeed support much more vigorously a number of initiatives such as the publish what you pay initiative or the extractive industries initiative, which have the disadvantage of being based on voluntary work only. we need to make progress in the area of law rather than simply relying on the goodwill of economic or political actors to publish, if they wish, the accounts or the income they pay to the governments concerned. budgeting oil and mining revenues is also an essential aspect of budgetary transparency, but the european union must make this a condition for not being able to give budgetary aid to a government which does not clearly disclose the profits it derives from the oil, mining or forestry industries. public opinion cannot understand that the european union continues to help countries which, normally, should have a large budget to finance the proper functioning of a state. finally, the report states that a government's military expenditure must also be disclosed. the role of national parliaments and civil society must be strengthened, including financially, with increased support to enable both parliaments and civil society to play their role in this area. the last point is transparency with regard to the various donors. the governments of these countries are also helped by cities, regions or states at all levels, and we lack a database that would indicate what is really paid by this country, this state, this region or this city. but we don't have that data today, and that also fuels corruption. i therefore think, in conclusion, that we must sweep up our own house, as has been said, and that corruption is also a matter of concern in the european union. the question of the exercise of power, of the financing of political life, arises in the north as well as in the south.
member of the commission. mr president, i welcome the debate that we have had here today. i think it is important to underline that the problem of fraud can never be considered as solved. constant vigilance at all levels and in all circumstances is needed in the high-risk field of external actions. these actions are carried out in poorly governed states, where countervailing powers and capacities at the level of civil society are lacking. as corruption cannot be isolated within the governance agenda, the commission’s approach in preventing and fighting it is twofold. it consists of mainstreaming good governance practices in all eu-funded programmes and projects on the one hand, and in the implementation of specific programme interventions on the other hand. country strategy papers and national indicative programmes between the european union and beneficiary countries generally include specific interventions in the fields of rule of law, democratisation, public administration reform, public finance management and reinforcement of civil society. i shall now make a few comments on some of the questions that have been raised today. on the discussion on companies, we must make sure that companies do not benefit from corruption. we must do the best we can. we can exclude companies from participation in our tenders if they have been found guilty of fraud or corruption. we can also suspend a project that has been financed if we discover fraud or corruption at some stage. we once used that option on a project in zimbabwe. on support for national parliaments, the commission sees the strengthening of the national parliaments’ supervisory role as an important means of trying to improve the overall effectiveness and impact of our development effort in these countries. for instance, through the edf and the budget line for south africa, the capacities of national parliaments of some 11 acp countries have been strengthened to a total amount of eur 35 million since 2000. on the subject of watchdogs, it is true that we work with private sector organisations. we would be worse off if we did not have these watchdogs. several members raised the issue of transparency, and it is a key issue. that is why we support several programmes in the field of budget supervisory functions. the promotion of efficient and transparent budgeting and public spending is at the heart of our budget support programmes. finally, through its permanent dialogue with the partner governments and the various regions, the commission encourages the broadest possible participation of institutions at various levels, particularly at parliamentary level. i have noted the view on the positive influence of the participation of women.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
you just made a suggestion that i'll gladly pass on. this can indeed be a wise use of our time at work. (the sitting was suspended at 11.40 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
mr president, i will be very brief. we have just voted resolutions on the elections in belarus and ukraine. i think that our parliament should put a resolution on the french presidential elections on its agenda. indeed, the last election in 2002 resulted in pressure on public opinion and violent protests. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. there was the orange revolution in ukraine and life there remained gray. there's the white revolution in moscow and the result is this: collapse of the 10-year life expectancy, population decline, crime, destruction of the health systems and the plundering of national property for the benefit of the oligarchs. one more push, and the black book of liberalism will equal the black book of communism. belarus should not be deprived of all the benefits of the market. the belarusians also have the right to freedom from the media-military-political oligarchy, with its procession of unemployment, passive euthanasia of the elderly, cultural degradation, economic stagnation, wild individualism and social loneliness. it is understandable that the european parliament should be pleased with the political and media democracy of the magnates berlusconi, bouygues-lagardère and murdoch. belarus is also entitled to the liberal misery of nations and to the cathodic democracy that is being manipulated.
in writing. this resolution raises the very serious problem of the plundering of the educated elites of the third world by the developed countries, particularly in the medical sector. this is a totally aberrant situation. in my country, france, insufficient anticipation of the health needs of an ageing population, poor career prospects and the 35-hour rule in public hospitals are leading to a shortage of staff. but a numerus clausus continues to restrict access to these professions, and nurses and doctors are recruited from abroad. at the same time, people in developing countries lack access to health care, and we send expensive and often punctual humanitarian missions to them. we're stepping on the head! the more we step on our heads, the more we see that access to health care has become one of the causes of massive illegal immigration: the french island of mayotte, which is in the process of being submerged, is an emblematic example. i want to denounce mr sarkozy's "chosen" immigration law which is going to organise this large-scale looting of the elites, further jeopardising the development of the countries of origin of these elites, mechanically aggravating the emigration of the population, while a bankrupt education system has given up training young people for unemployment or small jobs.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, my colleagues have already referred to the fact that we have discussed this issue time and time again. when it comes to human rights and the value of human dignity, we are dealing with variable geometry: when it is close to us, human life seems to matter, but when it is far away, we do not get our act together. i have often driven in that part of the world. i know that barren land; i know how those people live – or rather, survive – in those conditions, even when there is no conflict. they are exposed to famine, shortages of food and a lack of drinking water. you cannot imagine how hard their lives are. now, in their hundreds of thousands, they are being tortured, killed and the rest have fled their homes, and yet we will make another resolution here. that proves how powerless the international community is in dealing with human suffering. that is what it amounts to. how many more conflicts do we need? even in the balkans we did not get our act together until far too late. and now darfur is far too far away. china and russia are very cynically blocking our efforts in the united nations. sudan’s rotten regime – i am sorry that i have to use non-diplomatic language – is blocking un efforts, and we are powerless. when we have international conflicts or problems, we need international governance. otherwise, future generations will say to us: ‘you had the problem in your hand. you saw the dark clouds on the horizon and you did nothing’.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission is extremely concerned by the situation in darfur, which is the last open conflict on the african continent. periodic fighting continues to erupt between the belligerents and the civilian population. in particular women and children are the first to suffer from this continued violence and the persistent lack of security. although the worst possible scenario has been contained by the prompt intervention of the african union, the precarious status quo cannot continue much longer. almost three million people are depending on lifeline humanitarian aid, but access and security conditions for the humanitarian organisations are limited and hampered by continued violence, including direct attacks against relief operations. the conflict is now spreading rapidly into neighbouring chad and could jeopardise the fragile sudanese conciliation process, initiated with the signature of the comprehensive peace agreement between khartoum and the splm on 9 january 2005. there is international consensus that the only way ahead is a political settlement in darfur. the commission, member states and the international community are very supportive of the african union’s objective to reach a rapid peace agreement in the talks in abuja. this could also facilitate a smooth transition of the current military responsibilities of the african union in darfur to the united nations. an indispensable move, envisaged by the african union itself, but still being opposed by sudan. the commission believes that it is now high time for the parties, under the auspices of the african union and with the support of the international community, to identify a roadmap to peace in darfur and for the au-un transition with specific benchmarks and clearly assigned responsibilities. these would allow the international community to use all means of diplomatic pressure, including sanctions, to force the progress of the whole process. nevertheless, to be sustainable a political conciliation in darfur has also to be based on the provisions of justice and international support for the construction of the region. in this context, it is important that khartoum and the rebels contribute and assist the work of the international criminal court on darfur and that the donor community is ready to provide an immediate peace dividend once a positive outcome emerges from abuja.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on iraq: assyrian community, situation in prisons.
member of the commission. mr president, we are increasingly concerned about ethnic and religious violence and its possible escalation in iraq. lack of respect for human rights and the rule of law in iraq is a matter of grave concern for the international community. all ethnic and religious communities of iraq, including the assyrians, have the right to protection and to practise their ethnic, religious, political, administrative and cultural rights. the european union supports the development of a secure, stable and democratic iraq, with a parliament and a government, elected on the basis of a constitution that guarantees respect for the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the iraqi population as a whole. this is one of the key objectives for the european union as laid down in the medium-term strategy of june 2004. this objective is just as valid today as it was then. the commission emphasises the importance of effective protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and encourages the iraqi government to take appropriate action. this should also include the abolition of the death penalty which, to the strong disappointment of the european union, was re-introduced by the iraqi authorities in 2004. we join the international community in expressing our deepest concern at the cases of alleged torture and ill-treatment of iraqi prisoners. we condemn any incidents of abuse of prisoners in iraq, whether by iraqi forces or by multinational forces, as contrary to international humanitarian law, and call for those responsible to be brought to justice. we have noted that the uk, the us and iraqi authorities have launched investigations into reports of such abuse and some of those responsible for torture and ill-treatment have already been sentenced. we underline the obligations set out in the geneva conventions, that recourse to torture or inhuman treatment is a grave breach of those conventions. it is vital for iraq and the international community to work together to reassert full respect for international law, including human rights and humanitarian standards. the european union is committed to actively supporting the stabilisation of iraq. the commission and the european union member states are working together to strengthen the rule of law through an esdp – european security and defence policy – operation called eujust lex. it is an integrated rule of law mission providing training in eu member states in the fields of management and criminal investigation for 770 senior officials and executive staff of the iraqi judiciary, police and prisons. an essential element of that operation is training on human rights. in addition, we support the promotion of human rights, an important component of which deals with torture prevention and victim rehabilitation, and we support electoral processes and the constitutional process, working with the united nations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on the ayman nour case in egypt.
author. mr president, i would like to table an oral amendment to insert a new paragraph 5a. the text reads: "demands the release of dr ayman nour". mr president, this morning we had the belarusian opposition leader, mr milinkevich, here. he is free, but ayman nour is not free, although the two men are in a similar position in their respective countries. mr milinkevich said that when he went to an election debate, he had to take his own drinking water with him. well, every human being has an in-built aspiration to drink the clean water of democracy; what mr milinkevich is doing in belarus, ayman nour is trying to do in egypt. he tries to give egyptian people hope. he wants to give hope to those people who believe in a free tomorrow. egypt plays a crucial part, in many ways, in the middle east. if it does not show the way to democratization for the rest of that region, its future will be doomed in advance. egypt plays an important role in terms of its relationship with the united states and its constructive approach to israel, but if its relationship with the eu is to deepen, egypt must take steps towards democracy. egyptian people deserve democracy. why is ayman nour in prison? he is there because of flimsy charges; he is detained for nothing; he is detained because he dared to stand against president mubarak. if we want democracy to blossom in egypt, we must ensure that dr ayman nour is freed. if he is freed, that will also free the democratic forces in that part of the world, which is also an issue concerning future stability in that part of the world.
member of the commission. mr president, i welcome the interest of the honourable members of the european parliament in the human rights issues in our neighbourhood, in particular in egypt and in the case of mr ayman nour. the commission has been following closely the trial of mr nour, the leader of egypt’s opposition al-ghad party, since his first arrest in february 2005. as you will be aware, in reacting to the five-year sentence given to mr nour last december, the european union stressed that the imprisonment sent a negative signal about democratic reform in egypt. in our opinion, the case should be seen in the context of the process of democratisation in egypt, as well as being related to the independence of the judiciary. the commission expects the court of cassation to consider the case in accordance with the egyptian judicial process and international legal standards. the commission is ready to engage in a political and human rights dialogue with egypt, in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. the negotiations for the conclusion of an action plan are well advanced. we are confident about making further progress in the coming weeks and we hope to finalise negotiations in the coming months. in order to monitor the implementation of the action plan – and this should answer mr smith’s question – a structure of subcommittees will be created in the framework of the association agreement. the subcommittees will deal with political and human rights reforms in egypt.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate, that is to say, now.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
mr president, i would like to table an oral amendment to insert a new paragraph 5a. the text is as follows: "5a. demands the release of dr. ayman nour". this amendment was approved by the main political parties.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.50 p.m.)
mr president, i must admit that there is one thing i do not quite understand. the resolution on palestine: who decided what and when? i would just like to know who decides: has the decision been taken by the secretaries-general of the political groups, by the conference of presidents, by a conference of grandfathers and grandmothers, what else do i know? i just want to know who decided what and when.
mr president, i must be a little simple-minded. the conference of presidents is made up of elected members, the group chairmen, who can take decisions: very well. apart from the conference of presidents, as far as i know, it is the plenary that can take a decision. the secretaries-general of the political groups may speak, but since they are not elected and do not have the capacity to represent a group, they cannot take decisions. this is the simple world as it exists in my head. (applause) they can make proposals, of course, but they can't make decisions.
mr president, i understand mr cohn-bendit's spontaneous reaction, so i would like to try to give him an explanation. it was my group that asked for the inclusion of a point on the agenda concerning the freezing of european union aid to palestine. we made this proposal long after the last conference of presidents, so it was technically impossible for the conference of presidents to discuss it. the secretary-general therefore consulted with the other secretaries-general as is customary. i have therefore understood the president's proposal as follows: we now have to submit to the plenary the conclusions reached by the group secretaries-general on the basis of our proposal and, if there is opposition, we must vote. i thought that there was a consensus to follow our proposal, except that we were more in favour of tabling a resolution. but we're not making a case for it.
obviously, mr president, i do not understand anything. mr wurtz said that the proposal was made well after the conference of presidents. if mr wurtz is right, the conference of presidents, which took place before, was not able to consider the proposal, it seems logical to me. the person who made the proposal is the chairman of the gue/ngl group. he has just told us, as you have heard, that he made the proposal after the conference of presidents. as soon as a proposal is made after the conference of presidents, the conference, which took place before, has not been able to discuss it. that argument seems to me to be unstoppable. secondly, i want to make it very clear: if the two main groups are against the tabling of a resolution, there will be no resolution. but i want a vote in this house to decide whether or not there will be a resolution. you have your arguments, they're real; i have others that are just as real. the majority will decide, that's democracy, thank you!
author. mr president, commissioner, the process of accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union has now reached a crucial stage, that of the decision that our institutions must take to confirm or postpone the date of accession of these two candidate countries, scheduled for 1 january next. following the exchange of views with olli rehn in the april plenary, my colleagues brok and van orden and i thought it would be good if parliament could be kept informed of the arguments put forward by the commission in setting the timetable for the accession of these two countries and of the nature of the monitoring process of their reforms. in this context, the role of the european parliament, the role of the rapporteurs, my role as rapporteur for romania, could be a role of control which i would describe as rational and fair, in the full exercise of our right of observation. that is why, three weeks before the presentation of the commission's report on the state of progress of the reforms in romania and bulgaria, we have agreed to put this oral question in the spirit of what president brok has just said: far from wanting to take a premature decision on the accession of the two countries, we simply want to put into practice, to implement, the rights of parliament to be informed by the commission of the latest developments in the monitoring process. it is in this open spirit that we are presenting this question, which is centred on issues of real concern, of deep debate, as evidenced by the previous progress reports, particularly in the essential areas of justice and the fight against corruption. in supporting romania during these months of accelerated reforms, i think we are making two important notions prevail, the pace and consistency of progress made, but we are aware that there is no such thing as a perfect political system and that we have already come a long way. but we must not slacken in our demands. our concern remains whether or not the commission has - and this is the main question - discovered in recent months any exceptional grounds for alarm which should be brought to our attention. i do not want to prejudge the report, it is not the subject of our debate, but i will say, on a personal basis, that i do not think that is the case. there are still areas where romania should make further progress. however, the current situation in the country and the relatively optimistic intervention of mr rehn in the plenary earlier this month do not seem to reveal any major shortcomings which should be addressed by such a radical measure as postponing the date of accession. let me also point out that such a decision could have a detrimental effect on the motivation of the romanian authorities and people to push further the vast reform programmes already implemented, while accession - provided we consider it safe, of course - would open the way to the continuation of this virtuous circle. i think that is the context in which the deferral clause should be considered. its purpose is clear: it offers an antidote to a situation of great danger. it would be dangerous, i think, to use it to express various concerns, understandable, but requiring a different response. for less radical concerns, our oral question was intended to highlight the other safeguard clauses, which are of a quite different nature, and much less dramatic. they provide for continuous, more flexible monitoring during the first three years after romania's accession to the european union. it will then be up to the romanian authorities to respond to the various concerns that may remain on specific points while keeping in mind two imperatives: respect for romanian sovereignty, of course, but also the requirement of membership of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, our democracies are based on non-negotiable principles: peace and freedom, mutual respect, equality and, if possible, fraternity. it was the tragedies of history, especially the second world war, which finally made our respected elders recognize the need to establish peace on our continent. memory remains the world's health, and to deny the lessons of history by denying it is to risk being condemned to relive it. in the name of this, we europeans cannot tolerate the repeated statements of the iranian president denying the holocaust, claiming it to be a myth and calling for the disappearance of israel. it would be a shame to trivialize these words and ignore them in the name of some unbearable realpolitik or real economy. everyone must take responsibility, the iranian people as well as ourselves, everyone demanding that mr ahmadinejad reverse his unqualified statements. we cannot accept, on european soil, the participation in a world sporting event of a country which endorses such remarks by its president. we cannot tolerate his presence in nuremberg, which is an insult to the memory of the martyrs of the holocaust.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, six months ago i was a member of the european union's election observation mission to the palestinian elections. given the union's presence in the palestinian elections, i find the council's decision to withdraw aid to the palestinian authority paradoxical. we sanction the results of an electoral process which we supported and welcomed as well-run. is that really serving democracy? suspending aid is tantamount to sanctioning the entire palestinian people, that is to say, sanctioning not only the islamists of hamas but also the civilian population, children, women, pacifists, democrats, who were represented, i remind you, by twelve other lists in the elections. the suspension of aid is a fatal blow to a nascent and fragile state, because the first to be hit will be the 150,000 palestinian civil servants who also provide health and education services and support more than a quarter of the population. the world bank has already sounded the alarm about the risks of a humanitarian crisis. international aid is not used to support any particular ruling party but, in accordance with the oslo agreements, it ensures the very existence of the palestinian authority and its basic public services. i would like to express my concern and that of many european citizens. this decision is counterproductive and will help to strengthen hamas. it risks radicalising the palestinian population, which at the moment needs more help than lessons to keep hope alive for a just and lasting peace and to believe in democracy.
mr president, i would like to return to the attacks in my own country, france, on young german pupils who were on an educational exchange with schools in the suburbs of paris. these students were greeted with nazi salutes and were chased by young people throwing stones at them. these facts are extremely serious and i would like to express my indignation. sadly, these are far from isolated cases. it should be remembered that when we know that the european idea has been built, such acts are unacceptable if we are to put an end to xenophobia and war between peoples. i wanted to speak because some people seem to minimize such acts by claiming that they are ordinary. but this is unacceptable and unfortunately the public no longer realizes it. i think it is our duty to react loudly and strongly. i would like to say to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, and especially to our german friends, that we do not share this approach and are even less prepared to allow such practices to be silenced. as a member of the committee on culture and education, i have decided to send a letter to the minister of national education of my country asking him to take appropriate action in the face of these shameful acts.
mr president, recently our parliament voted resolutions condemning, for example, the way elections were conducted in certain countries, including belarus, where it seems that the outgoing candidate had much more facilities than the opposition candidate. but shouldn't we sweep our front door first? i have just learned, for example, that in belgium the leader of the national front, daniel féret, has been declared ineligible for ten years. it is obviously an original way for the parties of the system, supported by a judiciary at the helm, to simply eliminate an opponent from the competition. (to a member who asked him): i do not believe at all, mr president, in the independence of the belgian judiciary. i believe that there are a number of scoundrels in the belgian judiciary who are cynically and scandalously violating human rights and, in particular, the right of the opposition to stand for election. this is happening in a country which is corrupt, which does not respect human rights and which should be banned from europe! let's sweep the front door.
mr president, as the fictitious rapporteur for the agencies, i would like to thank the rapporteurs responsible for the subject for their expertise and availability, and in particular mr guidoni for his great listening skills. i thought it useful to highlight a number of points concerning the implementation of the agencies' budgets. firstly, of the 30 existing agencies, only 14 are subject to our control. i think it is essential that the other 16, whose budget is also financed by the european taxpayers, should be subject to parliament's discharge. another point is that enlargement to 25 places a burden on the agencies, without the necessary means for really effective operation being made available to them. we must be a little more tolerant of these agencies, given this somewhat particular aspect. on the other hand, the controversial and recurrent points must be resolved quickly. i am thinking in particular of the environment agency and the €906 000 in taxes unduly collected by the city of copenhagen between 2000 and 2004. i am also thinking of the translation centre for the bodies of the union and the litigation involving the payment of employers' tax, which amounts to eur 7.5 million, or one quarter of its annual budget. this has been observed for several years without any concrete action being taken. this is absolutely unacceptable. as regards the future of the agency for reconstruction, i.e. the phasing out of its activities in 2008 as recommended by the european commission, i personally see no objection to this, given that the creation of this agency was initially announced as provisional. like some of my colleagues, i cannot ignore the fact that today's news is the city of strasbourg. the legitimacy of the seat of parliament is not at all in question today, which is not the competence of the european parliament or the members of the european parliament. i would remind you that the fixing of the seat is a matter for the treaties. so that's definitely not the topic today. on the other hand, it is obvious that there must be full transparency on the recent information circulating concerning the overvalued rents that the city of strasbourg has allegedly been receiving from parliament for more than 25 years. in particular, a parliamentary committee of inquiry should be set up and olaf should be brought in. all the parties concerned, the parliament's departments, the city of strasbourg, the french and european monitoring bodies, will have to provide us with as much additional information as possible.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that today's meeting is a scheduled meeting, since when we discussed the previous directive we agreed that we should adapt to modern times when it came to defining the assets eligible for investment by ucits and that perhaps the last text we adopted was not the best one in this respect. we are in a sector, as you must know, madam commissioner, which has its own geography because asset management is ucits which are produced in some countries and used in others. in the end, we have a market with importing and exporting countries, which has some importance for the way in which each of them can conceive this business. it is important to know that this profession has a meaning, especially as it becomes more and more complex, and this is probably the important point of our meeting. ucits are products which, in a way, were intended for a broad savings audience, i.e. a mix of small and large investors. today we have a proposal which is likely to make this investment product more complex, without necessarily providing better protection for investors. since in several countries of the european union mis-selling problems have emerged, to put it bluntly, undermining investor confidence, we must at some point here or elsewhere accompany the more complex nature of the investment product with stronger protection for investors of all kinds. this is the sense of one of the amendments tabled by the socialist group, which i hope will be adopted. as for the simplified prospectus, our group attaches the utmost importance to it because we believe that it is a prerequisite for the effective implementation of a 'product' passport. finally, i would like to say a word about supervision, because we are in an area where the absence of a european regulator is a real source of difficulties. so this is what makes it difficult for ucits to move because there is mistrust among regulators. we need to increase the level of trust between national regulators and, even better, we need a european regulator with stronger powers. but i know that by saying this, i am already going beyond the debate we are having today. one last word about the job you're hiring. we think it should be in two parts. there are things we need to do now, such as broadening the base of eligible assets, and there is a reflection to be made on the role and responsibilities of the various players in this important branch of activity for the integration of the financial markets of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work and proposals. the aim is to rapidly set up a european emergency call system providing a precise indication of the accident site and alerting the nearest emergency services. i believe that the primary function of this ecall system should be and will be to save lives. if there is one area where emergency response is essential for survival and treatment of seriously injured people, it is the road. in this connection, i would like to draw attention to a specific aspect of road accidents: accidents caused by or involving heavy goods vehicles. in 2003, of the 90 220 accidents in france, which resulted in the death of 5 731 people, 4 472 were heavy goods vehicles, resulting in the death of 720 road users, 107 of whom were heavy goods vehicle drivers. with a fatality rate of 16.10%, the severity of accidents involving heavy goods vehicles is two and a half times that of all accidents. france, a true crossroads of europe, must consider as soon as possible, with its european partners, the introduction of alternative solutions to road traffic, which is today the most dangerous and polluting. the road to greater safety for road users requires not only the creation of emergency response systems such as the one proposed today, but also the unloading of roads by shifting road traffic to sea and rail routes, not to mention river routes. it is by combining all these efforts, and not just by systematic police repression of the drivers alone, that we will be able to reduce the number of people killed on our roads considerably.
member of the commission. madam president, let me once again express my thanks to the rapporteur and in particular to the political groups of the european parliament, who, together and almost unanimously, think that ecall represents an important advance that is in the interests of european citizens. with this strong support from parliament, the commission will continue its efforts aimed at the introduction of the pan-european ecall by 2009. in particular, we will pursue further signatures to the ecall memorandum of understanding, and we will follow the progress in implementing the appropriate emergency services infrastructure for 112. by the way, i have launched 11 infringement procedures against member states, because they have to implement it. parliament is right: let us implement it at once and in the right way so that it serves our citizens. i will also work relentlessly with all other stakeholders whose commitment is necessary for implementing ecall, and i would like to inform parliament that on 18 october 2005 i invited all the member states to a high-level meeting to discuss progress and to obtain further commitment on the roadmap for the implementation of ecall as a pan-european in-vehicle emergency 112 call. there were 21 member states present as well as norway and the representatives unanimously supported the realisation of the in-vehicle emergency call, as well as the roadmap prepared by the industry. since that meeting, my services have been in constant liaison with member states, and several ecall conferences have been held at national level: in helsinki, lisbon, budapest, madrid and elsewhere. therefore, things are moving. i am sure today’s action by parliament will be very important in speeding this up. we are also launching a eurobarometer survey to collect citizens’ views on 112, on ecall and on other such issues. you will get the results later this year as soon as they are available. while i am speaking about all the stakeholders, i would like to briefly mention the insurance industry. they said, and i quote, ‘there is a complete lack of any viable evidence to support the view that insurers will derive any benefit from ecall’. i would like to remind the insurance industry that ecall is not about making money, it is about saving lives, and i hope that there will be a review of this position after the very important vote parliament is going to take. i would also like to say a word about standardisation. standardisation of the data transmission protocol and signalling are urgently needed to enable the design work and investments to go ahead and, here, commercial interest should not block the work of the standardisation organisations. we now have a full consensus on the ecall specification and functionality, and i would like to urge all stakeholders, and especially the mobile network operators, to support the appropriate standardisation work in etsi and cen so that this work can be finalised as soon as possible. i should like to say a very heartfelt ‘thank you’ to the rapporteur and to all members from all the political groups who will help us, not only today but also tomorrow, to make ecall a very important european project. it needs the support of all of the european stakeholders. today we have achieved an important milestone.
the agenda calls for the report by manolis mavrommatis, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the promotion of multilingualism and language learning in the european union: the european indicator of language skills (2005/2213 (ini)) (a6-0074/2006).
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen. it was and is always an interesting discussion when we touch on culture and languages. but what i'm saying is that in this case, the language indicator is a tool for teaching languages, not how they are actually used in the social, economic or other spheres. we need, of course, to improve, accelerate and improve the quality of language teaching so that languages are not a barrier but a bridge. i would like to point out that language and language competence are bridges, and without bridges we are isolated islands, with bridges we create a community. one language is not enough - english only is not enough - because europe is defined by its diversity. diversity in unity or diversity in unity is the best characteristic of our community and i am convinced that unity has never been and will never be defined by one language. a family, a company, a city, a community all communicate in one language, and often they don't work well because unity is not given by language but by the values, beliefs and principles on which human relations are based. of course, language plays a role, but it is not the determining factor. i would like to confirm that multilingualism as a european commission policy also counts on support for minority, regional and neighbourhood languages. one specific question was asked, and that was why only five languages at the beginning of the test? this is just the beginning of the testing that will prepare the ground for all the official languages of the european union. the member states will discuss and decide on this issue at the council of ministers on 19 may. it is clear that dutch in belgium and swedish in finland will be added to these languages, as these are the languages that are taught on a large scale. the main criterion was to have a sufficient statistical sample for the purpose of examining such an indicator. there is nothing else behind it but this professional intention to create a high-quality european indicator. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee once again. mr manolis mavrommatis has really brought into the report what we need to have in the european union's policy on multilingualism.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 11 a.m., that is to say in a few minutes. (the sitting was suspended at 10.55 a.m. pending the vote and resumed at 11.10 a.m.) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as mr poettering and mr swoboda have said, our vote, which is in the same direction, does not of course prejudge the outcome of the inquiry that is to be carried out. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented.
in writing. latin america was the giant of the late 20th century. sixty years later, ultra-liberal policies, institutional deficiencies, and the difficult neighborhood of the united states have led to the results we see in the andes or the favelas of rio. and yet, latin america is rich in everything, starting with its people, who are the bearers of a powerful culture. that is to say, europe cannot ignore it. in relations between europe and latin america, therefore, we must put 'imagination in power'. because the right model of relations is between "christian cosmopolitanism" and "westphalian cosmopolitanism". this middle point between plato the diplomat and machiavelli is in a "quadrilateral of humanity". europe must propose the pooling of water, food, education and medicine between the two shores of the latin world. the euro-atlantic assembly proposed by the bregenz summit on 25 april 2006 should be supplemented by an economic security council. it is he who, fed by a vat on the many services provided from space and geostationary satellites, would succeed in partnerships for the supply of water, the supply of basic medicines, education and food. this basic quadrilateral of humanity would prevent ecuador from spilling over into spain and latin american children from being reduced to organ workshops for the commercial trafficking of insane capitalism.
in writing. mr ferber's report on the european parliament's discharge for 2004 is fundamentally dishonest. taking advantage of the new anti-strasbourg offensive by the anglo-saxon lobby, mr ferber has stepped out of his role as rapporteur and has surreptitiously set himself up as the censor of strasbourg. no, the european parliament cannot decide where its seat is to be. it is a unanimous decision of the heads of state and government and has been enshrined in the european treaties since the treaty of amsterdam in 1999. no, neither strasbourg nor france are prepared to accept the idea of letting the cat out of the bag, that is to say, to accept the transfer of the european parliament to brussels in exchange for a european institute of technology. why not a european centre for gerontology ? just as some people want to see france and the netherlands re-vote the defunct european constitution, others take their wishes for granted and want to eliminate the european parliament's seat in strasbourg in flagrant violation of the treaties. we will oppose it firmly, not only in the name of france but in the name of the general interest of europe.
in writing. i strongly support the recommendations of the titley report to extend the ecall for all system to all 25 member states. this is a key element in improving road safety. in the event of an accident, the rapid response - to secure the site and to rescue the victims - is the first condition for limiting the most dramatic consequences. more than 40 000 people die each year on the roads of the european union. this system, which would save 2,500 lives a year, should of course be promoted by the public authorities of all countries and demanded by citizens who are increasingly demanding safer roads. it is therefore regrettable that some member states - such as france, where road safety has been declared a major national cause - are behind in implementing the ecall for all system. it is hoped that the adoption of the titley report and the publicity it will receive in the european union will accelerate the implementation of this indispensable smart car system by all member states.
in writing. to respond to the linguistic uniformity of europe, with english as the popular phonetic soup, by a multilingualism which the european parliament would do well to practise itself, is very good. the french, who hear jean-claude trichet speak in english in the european parliament, and the germans, who, although representing 30% of the union's population, see their language space reduced to 14% of the european language market, can only approve of the consecration of multilingualism. it is not for europe to participate in the destruction of linguistic biodiversity. from this point of view, the catalans make common sense observations. a catalan language which, with more than 15 million speakers, is more widely spoken than finnish, danish, latvian or even dutch, cannot be absent from the european parliament. the catalan, occitan or breton languages are the roots of the french cultural tree. and the same could be said for the spanish identity tree. in the face of the winds of anglo-saxon globalisation, these national trees need all their deep cultural roots to hold. it is true that if multilingualism were not imposed, we french members of the european parliament would still be asking for the right of our minority to speak our regional language in a few years' time.
mr president, what is wrong is that you give the floor to someone who was supposed to speak in favour of the proposal and now he speaks against it. this is not right. we have to make a decision. the rules are clear, there is one speaker for and one against. i wanted to intervene, and i will. i think if ...
mr president, a group has tabled this request for a change of agenda, with very clear arguments in support. since there were not enough members present in the committee responsible - which implies that what mr lehne said, that all the groups agree, cannot be true, since those who were not present were not able to say whether they agreed or not - it is now up to the plenary to decide whether to refer the matter back to committee so that in a month's time or even in the mini-session, if possible, we can vote on it. so it is only a matter of a two-week delay. (to mr lehne) mr lehne, you have already spoken. it is like that in a parliament: the last speaker is often right. (laughter) i therefore ask the house to follow the proposal made by mrs kauffmann.
mr president, my colleague graham watson is a very intelligent and very fine man. i do not think he can seriously tell us, looking us in the eye, that this is a human rights issue. it is something else entirely, everyone knows that; it is also something that goes against the position of the international community. i therefore think that this proposal should not be accepted.
mr president, today the city of strasbourg is welcoming the caravaners of the south, women from algeria, morocco and tunisia, who have come to meet other women from their countries living in europe. they want to be a witness to their long struggle for their rights and the developments in their respective countries: the right to travel and work, to educate their children. these women have come to strasbourg, the seat of the european parliament, to ask us to support their action by taking action here in europe against attempts to return to the obscurantism to which they may be subjected in their own countries, but also here. a delegation of these courageous women is now in the gallery of this house. i would be grateful if you would give them the best possible welcome and show your support, for example, in place broglie in strasbourg, where one of their demonstrations is taking place. i thank you, mr president, and my colleagues. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to put forward a proposal on the human rights situation in tunisia, which remains extremely worrying, as the president of the european parliament stressed last week. last week, political police officers violently assaulted several lawyers inside the bar house, which continues to be occupied by their fellow lawyers in protest against the project to establish a training institute for lawyers, as provided for in the agreements between the european commission and tunisia. the project is aimed at reducing the training of lawyers to a fixed level, at the mercy of the political power and, more particularly, of the ministry of justice. we must vigorously protest against this attack and we must be concerned about the fate of our colleagues who are currently mobilized in tunis. the congress of the tunisian league for human rights will be held next week. it is the first human rights league on the african continent. this has already been the subject of many resolutions of the european parliament. his congress will be held in tunisia, where the conditions and atmosphere are currently appalling. it would be desirable to send official representatives of parliament to these meetings.
mr president, after other species such as cod, it is the eels that are threatened by the decline in stocks, for example by more than 95% for civilians. as the species is a triple-migrator - in the atlantic, from the atlantic to the mediterranean, for example, and from sea to river - the fate of the eel is obviously a reminder of the interdependence of the world, especially when the surge in demand from the east is driving european fishing. however, the daily reality of eels is that they are caught by the local population, for example in the ponds along the mediterranean coast in the south of france. hundreds of fishermen make a living from this activity. to prohibit them from fishing for 15 days a month, while dams, cormorants, power stations and ocean upheavals are affecting the life cycle of the eel, is unfair and ineffective, and that is where subsidiarity comes in. let the fishermen's associations, the professional organizations deal as closely as possible with the eel. the survival of the eel does not depend on community federalism, but on the action of local professional organizations.
mr president, i welcome this agreement, which is reasonable in two respects. firstly, it is reasonable as regards the fishery resources of the moroccan provinces of western sahara. it is not the opinion of parliament's legal service that counts, but that of the international court of justice. for centuries, morocco has exercised a form of sovereignty over this territory. it is their problem that algeria wants to open up to the atlantic, but that does not make it possible to make up laws. it is reasonable, then, because it is good to keep the benefits of these agreements and to give them back to the saharan provinces of morocco and to the people. i would make one reservation, however: it concerns the 60 000 tonnes of industrial fisheries granted to the large northern european trawlers, who have no historical rights, especially not in comparison with the historical rights of morocco, which nevertheless left 244 vessels there, which disappeared at the end of the agreement. the agreement with angola has been denounced, so we should be glad that we have reached this reasonable and balanced agreement with morocco, and not look for lice on the heads of the moroccans.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done in safeguarding everyone's interests and in reaching the best possible compromise. under the international legal status of western sahara, no entity, not even the european parliament, can intervene in this dispute, in accordance with international law, and as confirmed by the legal service of the european parliament. i am therefore pleased to see that the agreement has not been the subject of political dispute, but it does not prevent it from safeguarding the rights of the moroccan and sahrawi people as well as those of the fishermen and the fishing industry in europe. however, it is up to the european union to ensure that the benefits of the agreement are shared by all, including western sahara. this is precisely the subject of the amendments tabled by the committee on fisheries in plenary. respect for international law in the implementation of the agreement is again emphasised. the financial aid should be used to promote the development of coastal populations that subsist on fisheries, and to enable the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises in this sector, whether in morocco or in western sahara. finally, the commission will have to submit an annual report to assess the proper application of the agreement and may, if not, suspend it, as has been foreseen. i am convinced that these amendments are the guarantee of a consistent and fair agreement. i hope that the european parliament will adopt them by a large majority.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, europe is going through a serious crisis, probably the most serious since its creation. we see it every day, when europe does not move forward, when it does not stagnate but retreats, and at the same time national egos grow and the sense of belonging to a community of destiny declines. in the run-up to the next european council, you have put forward a number of proposals to try to respond to this crisis. our group has noted some timid advances among these. you will thus be sending all your legislative proposals directly to the national parliaments, at the same time as to the european parliament; that's fine, but it doesn't bring anything new. you will propose to the member states a reform of decision-making in the field of judicial and police cooperation. that's better, you know. but did it take a year to do that? do you really believe that these proposals will be able to re-establish trust between citizens and europe? your recovery plan, whether in the area of policy or institutions, is not up to the challenges we face. you're just taking very small steps, when we needed a significant breakthrough. firstly, your europe of results is singularly lacking in political ambition. i would have liked to hear you advocate new common policies, which are essential to better prepare for the future. this is particularly true in the field of research, where we are being outstripped every day, today by the united states and japan, tomorrow by china and india. the same is true in the energy sector. it is clear that the question of energy and its transport will be one of the major issues of our century. this also applies to the question of immigration. we need a common policy in this area, because it is obvious that the question of migration and the question of co-development will have to be dealt with at european level. we would also like to hear your proposals on the question of economic governance. if we want to create growth and therefore jobs, we obviously need to strengthen our economic, budgetary and industrial coordination - at least in the euro area. this is a real emergency. i think it is even more serious that you have not made any proposals on institutional matters. on this fundamental question of the future of our institutions, and therefore of our democracy, you merely stated - and i quote - that there was no consensus between the member states at the moment. the commission's role is not merely to make findings but to make proposals. it was the commission's job to set out a perspective, to defend and to carry a vision, and you missed that appointment. we have to stop telling each other stories. even if the ratification process continues in a symbolic way, we all know that this text will not be published. we will need to rewrite a new constitution, a new text, shorter, simpler, more readable, focused on the great principles on which the european union is founded. this text should say who we are, what we want, and specify the values we defend and carry. if we want to be able to ratify such a political project in 2009, the day of the european elections in all the member states, we must start preparing for this deadline now. that, commissioner, is the regret of the democrats and the liberals. last week, mr barroso rightly called on heads of state and government to take the european project on board for their citizens. today we call on the commission to renew the inspiration without which nothing great can ever be achieved. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner barrot, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the proposals and progress he has made in his report. as a french member of the european parliament, and given the geographical situation of france, which is a true crossroads within europe, i fully support all initiatives aimed at unclogging our roads, promoting alternative modes of transport for goods and people other than road transport and improving the environmental performance of the transport system in general. i also welcome the place given to the motorways of the sea in the marco polo ii programme. the development of these motorways will have a positive influence on the reduction of international road freight. as the rapporteur has pointed out, if no significant measures are taken to reduce road congestion, road freight transport will increase by more than 60% globally by 2013. we will face more accidents, more congestion, more environmental degradation and, finally, higher costs for the whole of european industry which, as it relies on reliable and profitable transport chains, will lose competitiveness. that is why we must concentrate all our efforts on the development of intermodal transport. with the enlargement to the east, europe has seen its maritime borders pushed back and thus has new conditions and prospects for developing the motorways of the sea. we have to take advantage of it.
mr president, in the face of the dangers to safety and the environment, in the face of the practices of a profession which all too often turns its employees into modern-day slaves, in the face of the significant increase in the flows announced, the commission seems to be realizing that the problem is serious and that it should be dealt with. free and unbiased competition is leading to disaster. we are being asked to develop motorways of the sea, railways, intermodality and to help smes and smes. however, the commission is continuing its crusade to privatise the railways without even taking stock of the catastrophic ten years. the orientation is good but not credible, as the means are lacking. that is why my group is calling for a separate vote on mr rack's report and the opinion of the committee on budgets. we shall vote against this report because it says: 'tell me what you lack, and i will explain how to get over it'.
mr president, i will be very brief. it will simply note that the commission had earmarked eur 740 million for the financing of marco polo ii, that the european parliament's transport committee had voted in favour of this amount and had reaffirmed its commitment to see marco polo ii properly financed. but we are being offered eur 400 million over seven years, with new priorities to be financed, and eligibility thresholds reduced by 50%, while the geographical scope has doubled. as in the case of rtet, we are moving towards a sprinkling. i doubt that the hoped-for triggering and leveraging effects will materialize under these conditions. i deeply regret this, especially since marco polo ii is a programme which has already proved itself in terms of its effectiveness. today, more than ever, europe must deliver on its promises if it is to regain the trust of its citizens. but with that kind of budget, it's not going to do that. although i welcome the efforts of the members of the transport committee of this parliament to limit the reduction in this envelope, i cannot therefore vote in favour of this report and i shall abstain on the final vote.
in writing. while i approve the compromise text on the nutrition and health claims directive, which contains some progress - in particular article 4 which requires scientific analysis before any health claim - i nevertheless voted against all the amendments (90,66,17) which presented real risks to public health. it would be dangerous to maintain claims on food products which, if partial, could mislead consumers. it is therefore unacceptable to highlight the word 'sugar-free' on a product when the same product is very high in fat. obesity is on the rise in europe, affecting more and more children. it is essential to combat this scourge by not encouraging excessive consumption of food and by stopping the cultivation of illusions in the minds of consumers. instead, they should be directed towards balanced products.
in writing. it is good to control nutrition claims to prevent cholesterol and diabetes merchants from selling their hyper-sweet drinks and hyper-lipid foods under the guise of energy propaganda. but to want to amalgamate wine into this health concern, anti-obesity and anti-alcoholism, as the commissioner did yesterday, is unacceptable. no, wine is not an industrial alcoholic beverage but a natural fermentation of fresh grapes. wine in europe is not water plus chemistry and aromas, as in the wineries of california or australia, but a food with grapes plus fermentation. then you should be able to say it. these nutritional and health benefits must be supplemented by antioxidants. how else can we explain that the geographical area of the vineyard covers the geographical area of civilization, while the geographical area of the eugenicist and health-obsessed nordic countries is also the area of drunkenness, skinheads, cyclical depressions and where no major cultural miracle has occurred?
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague monica frassoni on the recent reports of the european commission on the monitoring of the application of community law. this report was highly anticipated as a follow-up to the december 2003 institutional agreement entitled 'better lawmaking' aimed at reducing the volume of community legislation while simplifying it and with a view to ensuring that legislation is normally applied everywhere, which is a necessary condition for the creation of an area of law. unfortunately, it is clear that the member states are not transposing community legislation correctly and, worse, are not applying it correctly, with impunity, which the european commission is complicit in. it should be remembered that it is the member states which are responsible for monitoring the application of community law. everyone can see how the current system is not working and is a factor of division between the european construction and the citizens who measure every day the injustice of this situation. the undersigned wonders whether the time has not come to consider the creation of a european body of independent inspectors whose task would be to monitor the application of community legislation in the member states.
in writing. the reports put to the vote today show that the application of community law is becoming increasingly difficult and that more cases are being brought before the court of justice. at 31 december 2003, the 21st commission report shows that 3 927 infringement cases were under examination, compared with 2 270 in 1999 and only 124 in 1978. the reasons are the abundance of community law, but also the importance of the european commission's repressive arsenal against member states that would be reluctant to apply community legislation. the question of the application of community law is first and foremost a political question, not a legal or technocratic one as some think and claim. the main aim is to hide the problem of the conflicts between national sovereignty and european power. in this respect, the recent judgment of 13 september 2005 of the court of justice of the european communities, which for the first time operates a kind of communitization of criminal law, and this, without any legal basis, is symptomatic of the evolution of this institution. it is therefore understandable that member states are reluctant to apply community law which they have not chosen.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague bert doorn on a european parliament motion for a resolution on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. the application of european legislation is a permanent source of division between the european construction and the peoples. it is therefore urgent to introduce the necessary coherence between community legislation, its transposition by the member states and its practical application. unnecessary legislation must be stopped and necessary legislation properly implemented. the undersigned supports the idea that the european parliament should be closely associated with the monitoring of the application of european legislation by the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague arlene mccarthy on a european parliament motion for a resolution on the implementation, consequences and impact of the legislation in force on the internal market. the application of european legislation is a permanent source of division between the european construction and the peoples. it is therefore urgent to introduce the necessary coherence between community legislation, its transposition by the member states and its practical application. unnecessary legislation must be stopped and necessary legislation properly implemented. the undersigned supports the idea that the european parliament should be closely associated with the monitoring of the application of european legislation by the member states. in addition, given the problems encountered in applying community law, the committee wondered whether the time had not come to consider the creation of a european body of independent inspectors directly linked to the european union, whose task would be to monitor the application of community legislation in the member states for the normal functioning of the internal market.
in writing. one of the reasons for the non-application of european directives and texts by the member states of the union, which is curiously not mentioned in any of the reports, is in particular the way in which they are adopted. this is the perverse effect of extending qualified majority voting in the council: states which are in the minority and have refused to adopt a text for reasons of their own will naturally have difficulty applying it in their territory. all this obviously creates a real legal uncertainty for all the institutions, countries and peoples. the priorities must therefore be to rapidly codify existing community legislation, but also to provide a framework and limit the powers of the various union bodies, including the court of justice, which are so prolific in creating the law, so that the member states no longer have to bear the consequences of too many and too restrictive legal or case-law rules.
in writing. it is a good thing that legislation which is unnecessary, harmful, in contradiction with other community provisions or, above all, incompatible with the stated principles of subsidiarity and proportionality can be withdrawn from the legislative process. but the satisfaction is soon eclipsed by the description of the commission's exorbitant legislative powers. this institution - which, i would remind you, has absolutely no democratic or electoral legitimacy - can, at any time and at its own discretion, withdraw or amend a legislative proposal, inform parliament of the reasons for its decision or not, take parliament's opinion into account or not, in short, do whatever it wants. the worst part is that this parliament is content to take note of it. it is true that he is making a vague threat of censure against the commission in case it really goes too far. but we know that even at the height of the scandals that had engulfed the santer commission, he never had the political courage to disavow the 'symbolic institution' of the european superstate. the fact that a technocracy is exercised with the tacit consent of an assembly does not change its nature.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i did not know that my colleagues watson and poettering were followers of the attitude of young people, my son's age, who, when there is a problem, always say: 'but everything will be all right, everything will be all right'. and for years now, when we talk about enlargement, we have had the same answer: 'everything will be fine, everything will be fine'. then i'm all for it. but the responsibility, mr schulz, was not borne by the commission alone, it was borne by you too, when you decided on enlargement a year ago, when we all knew at the time that neither romania nor bulgaria were ready for enlargement. it is you who have taken on this responsibility, not just the commission. so, stand to your responsibilities. or in german: halte, was du versprochen hast! you are responsible! because what we're doing today is too easy. it's too easy. i have read what the commission has said and repeated: we must make progress here, we must make progress there. mr watson, what you say about germany is true, but what we have to say about poland is equally true: mr haider is a democrat next to a mr lepper, who is a notorious racist, anti-semite and homophobe. today, in europe, in poland, a far-right government is in power, and this parliament, which rightly criticised austria, what has it said to denounce poland? i didn't say anything. we dare not say anything when it comes to the enlargement countries! i'll tell you something very simple. i am in favour of enlargement. i am for enlarging europe! but not just any way! otherwise, tomorrow we shall make the balkans and turkey pay for our attitude towards bulgaria and romania. why are we making them pay? because it is not a question of saying no to romania. it is not a question of saying no to bulgaria. it is simply a matter of saying that at the moment neither bulgaria nor romania can be included, given the situation in those countries. instead of talking about monitoring, declare that these countries will be integrated into the union in 2008 and put in place programmes that will really integrate roma, gypsies, romanians and bulgarians. last week, i was in a roma neighborhood. what i saw there was amazing! you are going to integrate these countries and have allocated funds to finance these programmes. where'd the money go? ask the bulgarian government where the money went. ask him yourself! he won't be able to answer you. he'll tell you, "we just passed a new law". it's very good to make new laws. but what i want is for the reality to change on the ground. so it is not enough to say that we are for enlargement, that we are good christians, that we are good jews, that we are world lovers. no, the world has to change! but it's not your attitude that's going to change the world. we must therefore be clearer, more specific: yes to enlargement, but not just any enlargement. the commission, although it has the necessary instruments, does not help us enough. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, i would first of all like to warmly thank olli rehn, whose work as commissioner for enlargement is appreciated by all of us for its rigour, for its prudence, for its thoroughness. the cooperation between the european parliament and the commission, and between the european institutions and the romanian and bulgarian authorities, has been efficient and fruitful thanks to this work. the accession process of romania and bulgaria is now reaching a crucial juncture. it is the decision that our institutions must take whether to confirm or, on the contrary, postpone the date of accession of these two candidate countries, which is scheduled for 1 january next. i agree with the spirit of mr rehn's report, which, as in the past, is in favour of a yes, but with specific conditions. i have been saying for many months that our friendship for romania and bulgaria, our support for their accession process, is always accompanied by a specific requirement, namely that the criteria be met and the reforms necessary to move in this direction be carried out. however, i would go further than mr barroso and mr rehn in my judgment today on the result of the efforts made by these countries to meet our demands. i firmly believe that it is our duty, with only seven months to go until the planned entry date of 1 january 2007, to confirm or clearly reject this deadline. and my whole conviction now, unlike that of daniel cohn-bendit, is in the direction of confirming that date. as regards romania, i have had the opportunity on several occasions, as rapporteur for the european parliament, to say that i believe that the deferral clause should be considered only as a measure of last resort, as an emergency measure. i have reminded the house on many occasions of the danger of overstating it or using it as a pretext for expressing various real concerns, specific dissatisfactions, and losing sight of the big picture. i do not think that is the case today. the commission's report stresses that romania now meets the political criteria, the market economy criteria, that the community acquis has continued to be applied diligently and that, admittedly, there are still areas where the country still needs to make progress. the commission's recommendations in this respect are valuable and must be followed by action. but i draw from the report published today the certainty that the country's current situation does not present any major shortcomings which should be addressed by such a radical measure as a postponement of the date of accession. for less important concerns, the oral question i put with geoffrey van orden and elmar brok was intended to highlight the other safeguard clauses which are of a very different nature, much less dramatic. they offer the possibility of more continuous, monitored, always very firm control, possibly accompanied by sanctions during the first three years after romania's accession to the european union. and it will be these clauses which will answer the various concerns that may remain on specific points. today, it seems to me also important to emphasize the cost of a hesitation too long to make a clear decision on whether to grant romania membership on 1 january next. may was the deadline for the european institutions to decide on the date of accession for romania and bulgaria, which i thought was a good idea. i still believe that. delaying membership would pose practical problems. the time available for ratification of the accession treaty would be shorter, perhaps even too short. the debate on enlargement would become even more tense. i therefore propose that we build on this work and on the very encouraging results which he points out, and finally clearly state our agreement and support for romania's accession on 1 january under the conditions he has specified. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, on the highway between istanbul and sofia there is a border crossing, a toll road, called kapitan andreevo. remember that name because it will be in all the newspapers from 1 january if bulgaria joins the union. it is here that 300,000 trucks arrive from turkey every year, a five-kilometer line, three days of waiting. these trucks are used for all kinds of criminal trafficking: drugs from afghanistan, human trafficking from pakistan, amphetamines, counterfeit currency. to control the whole thing, there's one customs officer for every thousand trucks. bottom line, it all goes away. obviously, we'd need cargo scanners or at least a scanner. mr olli rehn told us here on 25 october that x-ray machines were indeed needed and that 8 million euros had been paid for this purpose. but there is no scanner. well, all those who loved sangatte, all those who loved brindisi, almeria, the canaries, will adore captain andreevo, gateway from asia to europe, big bang of crime.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the commissioner for this new report. this is a very rigorous administrative task for the commission. but this very rigour leads the commission to postpone once again its decision on the date of accession of bulgaria and romania. despite the dynamic in these countries, the report expresses serious reservations, while the scenario remains favourable to accession. once again, you recommend that they continue their efforts in many areas: agricultural administration, the fight against crime, the fight against corruption, fraud, the control of community expenditure. and the interventions in this house have added to that list: the inclusion of minorities, international adoption, customs control of smuggling. i think it must be admitted that bulgaria and romania are not the only countries with this type of problem. the european news shows us every day the shortcomings of europe in all these respects. why, then, commissioner, add new requirements to the criteria for membership each time? why delay a decision which has created fewer problems for the ten countries that have joined last? the very great caution which you are enjoining in this decision, commissioner, will have consequences for the hope it arouses among the citizens of bulgaria and romania. but for the past year we have seen the consequences of the despair of the people about the future of europe. from report to report, the commission multiplies the requirements linked to the criteria to be met for accession, and then backs down in the face of the obstacle of decision-making. the bulgarian and romanian peoples are humiliated by comparison, while they are making progress. citizens are increasingly questioning their right to a place in european democracy. populism is gaining ground in every report. the time has therefore come to decide clearly and courageously on the date of bulgaria and romania's accession to the union. for us, it will be 1 january 2007, because these two countries are essential to a real european union project.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the accession of bulgaria and romania, scheduled for january 2007, could be delayed because of the corruption which the commission believes is rampant in those two countries. such concern is entirely justified. but before giving moral lessons, should not some of our governments, like the french one, first sweep their front door? romania and bulgaria are genuine european nations, all the more so since they suffered under turkish occupation from the 16th to the 19th century and then under communism from 1945 to 1990. we therefore warn them against another oppression, less brutal but equally dangerous: the europe of brussels without frontiers, destroying our freedoms and our national identities, which, renouncing the christian roots of our civilization, opens its doors to islamic turkey. this europe, since the french and dutch voted in 2005, has no democratic legitimacy. it is time to build with all the european nations another europe, the europe of the fatherlands.
mr president, it is a pity that the commissioner had to go because now our immortal speeches will not make an impact on the eu’s future, but never mind. we have to congratulate him on a good job under very difficult conditions. today we have to play tough but fair, and i underline the word ‘fair’, because we are not talking about the three months to come, we are talking about three generations. that is what we need to focus on. i am not about to underestimate the problems those two countries are facing, whether it be criminality, corruption, the judicial system or minorities, be they roma or hungarians, but we have to remember where those countries have come from. they have come a long way. that is what finland has done over the last 50 years. look at the fantastic progress portugal has made in 20 years. today we must say ‘no’ to populism and ‘yes’ to vision. we must say ‘yes’ to leadership, because the progress of those countries towards harmonisation in the bigger european family depends on political will. it depends on our will to build a more stable world. let me remind you that we would not have had the balkans tragedy if those countries had had the hope of joining the eu 20 years ago. this is the power of enlargement, and we must see the bigger picture and not indulge in populism. we have lots of ways of monitoring safeguard clauses, even sanctions, to keep an eye on progress, but it is essential for us to support democratic forces in those countries. we must support those who want to enforce the rule of law. that is what matters and we must believe that the democratic forces will win. our moral duty today is to give people horizons – not borders.
i would like to mention a very painful human problem: the adoption of romanian children by european couples. in a moratorium of june 2001, the romanian authorities banned all intercountry adoptions except in exceptional cases: adoption of siblings, children over six years of age or disabled children. however, several dozen adoption applications under examination in 2001, although part of the accepted exceptions, have since been pending. for example, 800 european families have been waiting for more than five years to adopt their children, even though their adoption application was validated by the romanian adoption committee before june 2001! these children know their adoptive parents and are attached to them. they are now experiencing a second abandonment. what about the best interests of the child? last december, the european parliament called on romania to resolve these cases of adoption requests as soon as possible, but to date no unblocking has been observed. any application for intercountry adoption is systematically rejected. in march, applications submitted before the june 2001 moratorium were again rejected. does the european commission intend to put pressure on the romanian government to find a fair and humane solution quickly in the interests of the children and adoptive families?
in its communication of 25 october 2008, the european commission identified 'some particularly worrying shortcomings in the preparation for accession'. i would mention two main ones: corruption, which remains a serious problem that can threaten the internal market, and the substantial difficulties in establishing an effective financial management and control system to enable the implementation of the structural funds. there is no denying the progress made and the willingness of bulgaria and romania to join. however, i doubt that the particularly worrying gaps identified by the european commission can be filled by the date of their planned accession, 1 january 2007. with the arrival of the ten new member states, socioeconomic disparities have doubled in the enlarged union, while the fifteen are not stimulating european growth, their economic performance remaining rather average. therefore, should we not first consider consolidating the union to 25 member states before considering the accession of new countries? i think that neither the european union, bulgaria or romania will be ready for 2007. i therefore ask the council not to confuse speed with haste in the prospect of their accession.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, while i, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets, generally support the commission's approach, i would like to stress the political dimension of this matter and point out, if you will allow me, two shortcomings. for the past two years, the european commission has been working to develop standardization in health, social, environmental and community services. it proposes to extend standardization work to services, while maintaining the monopoly nature of the organizations mentioned in the report, which i think is regrettable, whereas, so far, standardization has been concentrated mainly on industrial products only. standards in the specific services context are tending to replace european legislative harmonisation, which is a cause for concern. standardization, however necessary or even indispensable, cannot take precedence over legislation. these standards are required in all european tenders, but until now they have been drawn up by the industry alone, without democratic control, and can therefore constitute a barrier to market access, which we cannot accept. it is therefore particularly important to ensure that all stakeholders can effectively participate in the work of these bodies. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of information centres, the development of a european network of information centres and the development of a european network of information centres. this concern is indeed reflected, but only very partially, in the compromise amendments. i also felt that, since public funds were involved, the european parliament should be informed annually of the standardization actually carried out. european standardisation bodies are associations of general interest which receive public aid from the community. as such, they must, of course, meet transparency obligations. the compromise amendment on this issue provides for an evaluation by the commission of the standardisation activities at least every five years, which is notoriously inadequate. so, madam president, in a few words, here are my observations. i congratulate the rapporteur on the substance and the coordinators for the quality of the work they have done, but i regret the lack of efforts to achieve greater plurality and the fact that the controls on standardisation activities are so far apart.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament attaches great importance to the question of democratic control of the european central bank. let me simply say, on behalf of all the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i imagine, but also on behalf of the commissioner, that i regret the late hour of this debate. if we want the issue of the monetary dialogue to be taken seriously, it seems to us that a decision as important as the renewal of a member of the executive board should not be taken at such a late hour. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is to say, whether this designation is of importance in relation to the content of monetary policy. here, as rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i have to say that, after a vote in the ecofin council, the candidate proposed by the latter, whose nomination must be validated by the european council, required a majority to be presented as the candidate supported by our parliament. in this consultation procedure, the profile expected of the candidate is that he or she has the necessary authority and professional experience in the monetary or banking field. those are the terms of the treaty. obviously, the candidate we're being offered meets those criteria. the question which has in fact animated the work of the economic and monetary committee is a certain concern about the conditions under which the debate took place in the council. at a time when everyone recognizes that monetary policy is an independent policy, when political power has little say, when almost all the members of the eurogroup and ecofin have criticized monetary policy when it came to raising rates, this appointment was not discussed. that is why, in parallel with the evaluation of this application, we sent a letter to the president of ecofin, mr karl-heinz grasser, the main points of which i would like to outline here. we have asked ourselves about the procedure for selecting the members of the executive board and we therefore ask the council about two aspects of this procedure. the first concerns the system of rotation of countries. i personally understand that the main economies of the euro area should be represented on the executive board, but this view is not shared by all the members of the economic and monetary affairs committee. in any event, the question of how euro-area members would be represented on the executive board was raised by the members of the economic and monetary affairs committee, while the question of the size of the executive board was not raised. the question of the diversity of the profiles chosen to sit on the executive board has also raised concern among the members of our committee, on the basis of the idea that perhaps we need people from different backgrounds on the executive board of the central bank so that the plurality of views can be expressed when the monetary policy of the euro area as a whole is at stake. our committee felt that, in the long run, the council should be able to hold a real, open debate, with guidelines, on the profile that should be proposed by the member state, which would have the possibility of designating a member while respecting the diversity of the euro area member countries. we believe that the european parliament should have the right to vote in favour, as the members of the commission do. that is the spirit in which we have written this letter to the president of ecofin. i think that all the members of the economic and monetary committee, and behind them the whole institution, are open to a dialogue with the council, which would lead to a better procedure in 2010, one that would be totally satisfactory.
madam president, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his contribution to our debate. i would like to recall three factual elements. the first is the cyclical conditions affecting the public finances of the european union. given the rise in oil prices, this is an exogenous fact which we must take into account in our public finance strategies. the second element is almost foreign to our public finances: i am referring to the policy of the central bank and in particular to the policy of raising interest rates which it has undertaken. the third element is probably more political, and it is also one of the points which my group has at heart. the plea that some people make for structural reforms without a strategy to stimulate growth is unlikely to succeed, because there are no structural reforms possible without genuine support for growth. that is why i would like to point out two ways which i think are absolutely essential. first, an investment strategy to ensure the effective implementation of the lisbon strategy. in this context, i am surprised that my colleague othmar karas can, on the one hand, advocate an increase in the budget for the lisbon strategy and, on the other, prepare to vote tomorrow on the financial perspective as proposed in the compromise reached between our institutions. i think there is an inconsistency here, and i hope that our fellow citizens will not have to pay the price tomorrow. secondly, the question raised by mr dariusz rosati at the end of his report on the conditions for growth and coordination of economic policies in the euro area. many commitments have just been made under the responsibility of the president of the eurogroup, with the complicity of the commissioner. i believe we are on the right track, particularly with regard to the harmonisation of the timetable and the harmonisation of the macroeconomic data on which the member states base their budgetary assessments and preparations. that said, we still have a lot to do and i believe that this is why work between the commission, the council and the european parliament should lead in the coming months, weeks, to concrete proposals which would enable the european union to have a euro zone which is more in line with the growth prospects which we are entitled to expect from the benefits of a single currency.
the committee on agriculture and rural development has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the renewal of the institutional agreement, i would like to express my dissatisfaction with the budget agreement reached on 4 april. in the budget negotiations, heading 2 'natural resources' was given an additional 100 million as a reserve for future actions in the area of life+ and natura 2000 and nothing more, despite the efforts of the negotiating team, whose work i welcome. apart from the fact that this does not solve the financing problems of the natura 2000 network, i would like to stress that no response has been given to all the other remarks and criticisms contained in my opinion adopted almost unanimously in the committee on agriculture and development. i would remind you that one of the main objectives of the cap reform, which was decided in september 2003, was to freeze the first pillar in order to strengthen the second pillar, namely rural development policy. the budget for rural development is some €20 billion less than the commission's proposals, which in the regions of the 15 former member states represents a 35% reduction compared to the current period 2000-06. this is a huge amount, and it is added to the reduction in structural funds. this will clearly lead to increased desertification of our rural areas and, indirectly, to an increase in the problems of the towns and suburbs. the first pillar will be subject to strong downward pressure: compulsory and voluntary modulation, financial discipline, reform of the common market organisations, wto negotiations. the 2003 agreements were therefore not respected at all and the balance reached even before the 2008-2009 review period is considered questionable. like mr mulder, i also want to stress that voluntary modulation in these unrestricted ways solves nothing. on the contrary, it will pose serious technical problems and distort competition. i think the final statements in the interinstitutional agreement on this subject are very weak in relation to the risks involved. for me, this is the beginning of a renationalisation of the cap; i will therefore vote against this agreement. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, madam commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking mr böge and all our colleagues, mr mulder and others, for their contribution which has shown, at a time when we are talking about a crisis of confidence in the european institutions, how much our institutions, and of course our parliament in particular, have played their full part. the institutions have played their full part, because, beyond the exemplary aspect of these meetings, we are going to give our fellow citizens, with this interinstitutional agreement, the real means of making europe and its powers in terms of development and solidarity fully concrete. as a member of the committee on regional development, i would like to stress one point. in the past we have seen and we still see how much the structural funds have done for countries like ireland, spain and portugal, how much they have changed daily life in regions which were lagging behind yesterday and which today are on the same level as the average of our european regions. with the structural funds for the period 2007-13 we can achieve the same result, since the new member states in particular will be able to use the funds made available to them. however, we know that there will be a delay, despite the n+2 and n+3 rules. i therefore urge the council, the committee on regional development and the european commission to declare now that the resources which have not been used under the structural funds will not be redistributed among the member states but will be reallocated under a new agreement to be concluded in the next few years, whereby the funds will be put to the service of the objectives of our voluntary policy in this field.
mr president, we accept this agreement not because it is good, nor because it is the least bad possible, but because it is the only possible one, because today the european budget is financed by 90% by national budgets. but half the member states are in serious deficit and the other half do not see why they should pay for countries that are badly managed. the time has therefore come to reform the system of resources which feed the european budget. our parliament is working on concrete proposals, and we have been doing so by involving the national parliaments for almost a year. the interparliamentary conference last week provided an initial and encouraging exchange of views on the diagnosis, timing and scope of the reform. the diagnosis is almost unanimous. everywhere, the current system is considered anti-communist, unjust, totally incomprehensible to the citizen. on the calendar, there is a consensus that the 2008-09 meeting should be used to reach political agreement on the modalities of reform. opinions on the range are still very different. there are masochists who suffer from the system, but who like to suffer from it. there are moderates who want to preserve the principles of the current system. there are the ambitious, more open to more radical transformations. but there are two common recommendations: on the one hand, not to call into question the fiscal sovereignty of the member states; on the other hand, to protect taxpayers against further tax increases: principle of sovereignty, principle of constancy. a further meeting is planned with the budget committees of the national parliaments on 21 june. our aim is to at least achieve a sufficiently close convergence of views so that the commission can draw on them in the proposals it is asked to submit for 2008.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr lewandowski, the rapporteur, mr böge, and mr mulder and mr walter, who have been negotiating with the member states for more than a year, with great difficulty, to define the budgetary resources of our union. more than ever, europe needs to devote significant resources to structural cohesion policies, as well as to innovation, research and sme policies, in short, to policies conducive to the emergence of a people's europe and to europe's influence in the world. the proposals that parliament put forward in june 2005 made this ambitious policy possible. i must confess to you my disappointment because the compromise we have just reached after a long struggle is still lacking in ambition and spirit, and although our parliament succeeded in forcing the council to revise the unacceptable amounts it proposed last december, the advances granted by the states are far from meeting the real needs of europe, which we all want to see met. the budgetary compromise is acceptable in form because it is in line with the political choice of the council, but the fact remains that, in substance, the member states' ambitions are lukewarm, they are frivolous, and above all they are far from being up to the challenges of our society. that is why, with a little bit of a death in the soul, i shall vote in favour of this compromise because, whatever happens, i want europe to continue to progress. when the path is narrow and steep, it is better to go little by little than not at all. and i am now looking forward with great determination to this meeting which will enable us to renegotiate a genuine voluntary policy in 2008, with renewed government teams, with the desire for europe at their core and which will enable us to exercise... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking my colleague mr böge for his excellent work. unfortunately, we are dealing with an interinstitutional agreement a minima. mr böge, you could do nothing when you were confronted in the council by the promoters of what i would call a policy of deception, which pretends to propose to the europeans a budget that is in line with the statements made by the heads of state and government in the media. we need more erasmus grants for young people, but we see that there is no adequate budget. the council says that more europe is needed to support regional financing, but does not want to commit itself to this. this deceptive policy gives the impression that the union has its own financing solutions, but any idea of a european tax would be tantamount to arming the rifle to shoot red bullets at europe. however, this budget pays some attention to research, to european transport networks, such as the lyon-turin project. but what of galileo's ambitions? where is the aid that is supposed to encourage our smes to enter international markets? what have you done with the rural development fund? with this agreement, which is already planned to be revised in 2008, it is regrettable that we are now obliged to place our hopes in this future revision. we are painting the front door of europe, but leaving everything else untouched. it's the budget of hypocrisy. under the circumstances, i will vote for this agreement a minima because i am obliged to, but i will give you my vote with death in the soul.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on these financial perspectives would be to dismiss ourselves and not to give europe the means to achieve its ambitions. in june 2005, parliament voted almost unanimously for €974 billion. this is the key to success in enlargement, a policy of active growth, support for research and preparation for the future. today, these same people are preparing to vote on the amputation of the financial perspective of 110 billion euros. sorry about that. and understand who can. to vote for this would be to consider that there is a two-speed enlargement: yesterday's enlargement to the south, which allowed greece, portugal and spain to develop fully; today's enlargement to the east, which inspires a discourse of greater pomp and circumstance, all the more so because it conceals insufficient funding. i would wager on all the benches in this house that we will have to suffer the long litany of regrets about an insufficient budget, month after month, year after year, report after report, but it will be too late. today the european parliament must confirm that it is the driving force of european life. to quote the words of the bolivian president, evo morales ayma, who came to visit us here the day before yesterday: 'let us not lie to each other, let us not be weak, let us be strong, let us not accept financial prospects which are financial prospects at a discount'.
the financial perspective, which amounts to eur 864 316 billion in commitment appropriations, is the disappointing result of a compromise between the commission, the council and parliament which has weakened the european spirit and threatened to paralyse the union. the eu27 will have a relatively smaller budget for 2007-13 than the eu15. even if the cap funding is preserved and the budget for smes appears to be strengthened, the galileo project, the transeuropean transport networks, research, regional policy, education and training, culture will be sacrificed. the rigorous rules on national budgets did not allow for an increase in national contributions, which explains the approval of this compromise by meps. the budget is unfair, complex and no longer able to finance future policies, and it must be reformed. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. these resources would be equitable, legible, controlled by democratic procedures and consistent. the revision of the community budget, planned for 2008, must allow us to make this reform possible without amending the basic treaties, by agreement between the european parliament, the commission and the council acting unanimously.
in writing. one of the causes of counterfeiting is the fraudulent copying of designs. it is the theft of business intelligence that distorts international trade rules and causes the loss of about 100,000 jobs in the eu every year. it is also a danger to consumers when copied products can harm their health or safety. finally, it is a source of tax and social fraud which weighs heavily on the accounts of the states. all the means to combat this scourge must therefore be constantly strengthened. the protection of designs - the hallmark of creativity and innovation in business - is an essential part of the anti-counterfeiting arsenal. but international registration is often a complicated and costly process, especially for smes. all measures to simplify these procedures and to save money will therefore encourage companies to comply with them and will have a positive impact on research and innovation. the report by michel rocard on accession to the geneva act on the international registration of industrial designs is in line with this and i have therefore supported it.
in writing. europe is going through a dual crisis, institutional and political. a strong bond of trust must be re-established between european citizens and their institutions. the first sign that political leaders must address their citizens to restore this trust is to have a budget that is commensurate with the ambitions they are displaying. at a time when the eu is opening up to new countries, when we need more than ever a europe that is strong in the world, a social and competitive europe, the budget proposed to us today is not acceptable. implementation of the lisbon strategy, development of r & d, education and training, external development aid and cooperation, transnational infrastructure projects, structural funds and cohesion funds sufficient to demonstrate the necessary solidarity with the new countries: all this will be achieved only a minima. moreover, any new policy is impossible, any recovery is inconceivable, it is the budget of sclerosis and renunciation. that is why i cannot vote for financial perspectives which forget the european interest in favour of national egoism and disappoint our peoples as to the future of europe.
in writing. i voted on the financial perspective of the european union for the years 2007 to 2013 on the basis of the böge report, and in the light of the long, painful and distressing negotiations which have taken place since the first half of 2005. i did so not because i thought it was the best or the least bad budget, but because it was the only one possible and because i did not want to be part of the group of those who would not hesitate to aggravate the crisis facing the european union with a budgetary crisis that would not have been understood either by our citizens or by the new member states that joined in 2004. it should be remembered that it is not the european union that is in financial crisis but the member states, some of which are on the verge of financial bankruptcy due to a disastrous management of national public finances. we must get rid of the british rebate which has been poisoning european relations for too long. finally, i am pleased that this agreement, together with the 2008/2009 review clause, is the beginning of the indispensable reform of the eu's finances, which is becoming an indispensable and urgent step in the process of european integration.
in writing. i voted in favour of the böge report because the absence of an agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-2013 could destabilise the european union in its work from next year onwards. i pay tribute to the parliament's negotiators led by mr böge, who obtained an additional 4 billion euros for important initiatives in the fields of competitiveness, education, research and youth exchanges. i deeply regret that the council has not agreed to allocate more resources to european farmers, particularly in the field of rural development, where an amount of eur 20 billion less will be available compared to the commission's proposal. i take this opportunity to remind the council of its obligations to ensure that the principles of the 2003 cap reform are respected. i am completely opposed to the council's proposal on voluntary modulation which transfers 20% of direct aid to rural development without any obligation to co-finance. such a system is unacceptable as it could destabilise the market and could be a first step towards the renationalisation of the cap. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. like the french socialists, i voted against the böge report which endorses the interinstitutional agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-13. our parliament rejected a budget last january which it considered to be mediocre at the time, considering that it did not provide the necessary financial levers for employment, growth, research and the large transeuropean networks. on 6 march the committee on budgets unanimously adopted a resolution condemning the financial perspective and calling for negotiations between the commission, the council and parliament to result in a budget more in line with parliament's wishes. the balance is still not there today and the budgetary arbitrages needed to meet the justified and ever-increasing demands to finance all eu policies will be very difficult in the coming years. we will have to explain to the european citizens that the responsibility for this budget of austerity lies with the intransigence of the heads of state and government who have refused to give the union the means to achieve its ambitions.
in writing. i voted against the european budget for 2007-2013 because i believe it represents a dramatic lack of european ambition and a return to intergovernmental logic which i disapprove of and which will paralyse all european public action, at the expense of european citizens. at €864 billion, or 1.05% of the gross international product of the 25 member states, the financial perspective does not match the historic enlargement of europe to ten new member states and the challenges ahead. i believe that we are far from the requirements set out at the start of the negotiations (in june 2005 the european parliament voted for a budget of €974 billion, or 1.18% of gdp); the budget is unfortunately accompanied by a reduction in the structural and cohesion funds, a reduction in competitiveness, growth and employment, and will make any modernisation impossible. as a european elected representative it was therefore my responsibility to reject such an agreement which goes against my idea of a great europe.
in writing. i voted against the sousa pinto and böge reports, which reflect europe's retreat into its national egoism, which undermine any major political project and seriously threaten existing public policies, notably the cap and the structural funds, which are instruments of solidarity for the most fragile regions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one. the union's cohesion policy is undergoing the same drastic cuts, with a 10% drop in the structural funds/cohesion funds, even as many european regions are suffering from development delays that called, on the contrary, for a substantial effort in the field of community solidarity. the outermost regions, which are directly affected by this budget surrender, will also not be able to count on the development of new regional synergies, with the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument losing an additional 6 billion.
in writing. i will not go into a battle of numbers to explain my negative vote on the reports by mr reimer böge and mrs sousa pinto, both on the financial perspective. i hope that the supporters of this compromise, which they themselves call 'tolerable', will not resent me for having a different ambition for europe and its citizens than their own. i do not want a europe reduced to a simple free trade area modelled on the anglo-saxon model, but rather a europe based on the values of solidarity and sharing between peoples, which have always been the vehicle of european progress. these financial perspectives are dramatically lacking in ambition for the future of the european project and serve only intergovernmentalism. with a 37% reduction in growth and competitiveness and a 10% reduction in the cohesion funds, they destroy any idea of european recovery and forbid any new policy for seven years.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague zita plestinska on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the financing of european standardisation. the text proposed by the european commission, which was voted on at first reading, provides a legal basis for the financing of european standardisation. standardization is one of the tools needed to implement community policies, particularly those relating to the internal market and to enhance the competitiveness of enterprises. i am pleased that access to this funding has been extended beyond the traditional beneficiaries usually referred to as european standardisation bodies and to more activities. this is a considerable challenge, especially for those european standards which are in competition with other standards worldwide.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague dariusz rosati on public finances in economic and monetary union. it was essential to state that the situation of public finances is very worrying, not to mention that some member states are in a situation of financial bankruptcy. moreover, it is clear that the community procedures, whether the stability and growth pact (sgp) or the excessive deficit procedure (edp), are only imperfectly capable of resolving this dramatic situation or are ineffective in a context where weak economic growth and social requirements are undermining the european union's capacity to reform. the lack of political will to bring reason back into the necessary budgetary adjustments is reflected in a dramatic increase in debt. how long will this irresponsibility ... ? it has become incomprehensible that the heads of the executive bodies of the member states concerned do not understand, through common sense and the examination of success stories around the world (canada, denmark, for example), that sound public finances are essential to achieve more growth and employment.
for the greens/efa group mr president, this year the subcommittee decided to change the structure of the annual report on human rights. it is no longer an assessment of the situation in the countries, but a report on the implementation by the commission, the council and parliament of the european union's instruments for the promotion of human rights and democracy. we did it, even though it was difficult. we can congratulate the rapporteur and the political groups. the role of the parliament is to guide, monitor and evaluate the policy of the council and the commission. that is why it is essential that parliament continues to draw up its own report. if we were to write a three-handed report, for example, we could not criticise the action of a member state - which we can do with the present report - because it would be enough for that member state to veto it. the amendment we have tabled to article 8 goes in that direction. mr howitt's report puts forward a number of interesting and innovative proposals for mechanisms to promote human rights. the report advocates, in particular, qualified majority voting in the council and possible restrictive measures against a third country. it is logically part of the continuation of the report adopted by parliament: the agnoletto report. it also proposes to ensure that the newly created un human rights council is not chaired by a state which is responsible for human rights violations. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the free movement of goods. the report also stresses the need to develop human rights policies in parliament which are transversal. it is in this spirit that the subcommittee proposed that delegations be allowed to submit nominations for the sakharov prize. the report refers to violations of the rights of tolerance in some member states, the use of torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or the return of persons to countries which practice torture, the use of diplomatic assurances and extraordinary surrender. that is why we must link the internal and external policies of the european union closely together and perhaps consider the possibility of a single european parliament report on human rights, drawn up jointly with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, as is required by the asylum and immigration issues. as such, i am against paragraph 97 which in some way supports the establishment of pilot regional protection programmes. the commission is considering implementing one of the first such programmes in belarus, a country which is responsible for numerous human rights violations, has no diplomatic relations with the union and offers no guarantees on the protection of migrants. i don't think these programs are appropriate.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, madam commissioner, mr council representative, the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument simplifies the european union's external assistance and strengthens cooperation with our neighbours: that is a good thing. however, we must remain cautious about the financial allocation to the neighbourhood policy. we must take account of the differences between our neighbours to the east and those to the south, whose reforms are progressing at different rates. let us ensure that european financial aid continues to remain stable and, above all, that it retains its present distribution. i am thinking here of our mediterranean neighbours, who have special relations with the european union in the context of the barcelona process. let us show and demonstrate that our partnership remains a priority by strengthening our political, economic and cultural cooperation.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome once again the change in the legal basis of the stability instrument and thank the commission and the council for accepting this change. i also welcome the fact that the negotiations with the council have made it possible to restrict the scope of the stability instrument, by limiting cooperation in the fields of peacekeeping and the fight against terrorism. however, the commission's proposal to introduce a non-binding callback mechanism does not make up for the shortcomings of parliament's co-decision power on political content. as regards the mitchell report, i am glad that parliament has not given in to the commission and the council. tomorrow we shall be voting on a text which maintains the powers of parliament and allows it to retain its role as co-legislator on the political orientation to be given to the new instrument for cooperation and development. there's no reason to give up because that power is already there. the political guidelines on which we want to obtain codecision will replace the 16 regulations which were all subject to the codecision procedure. the first battle has been fought, and we expect the commission to come forward with a political content quickly so that the second reading can be concluded before the end of this year. however, i am concerned about the neighbourhood instrument. this raises the same problems as the development instrument. the answer given is quite different. as in the case of the instrument for financing development cooperation and economic cooperation (dceci), this instrument is subject to the codecision procedure but has no political content. as in the case of the ecdci, the policy content to be defined will replace a dozen thematic regulations subject to the co-decision procedure for 15 of the 17 countries of the neighbourhood instrument. in order to safeguard its powers, parliament itself proposed the callback mechanism to express its views on the political content of the neighbourhood instrument in the context of the codecision procedure, in the event of a dispute with the commission. we are an elected assembly and our work is by definition political. we choose to legislate on the most technical aspect of the partnership - the procedural framework - but we remain silent on the political strategy. today we would be prepared to abandon the callback mechanism and to yield to the commission and the council to adopt this text at first reading. why change what you've learned? why should our legislative power be restricted when parliament is winning significant legislative victories on other issues, such as port services, the services directive and, tomorrow, the ecsc? i understand that a quick compromise on this instrument with the council and the commission is necessary, but what elected official can decently vote to lose his prerogatives?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, let us broaden the debate, if you please, because all our talks, our speeches today, presuppose, it should be recalled, a common policy on external relations. it seems to have escaped some people that the french and then the dutch a year ago rejected the european constitution precisely because they did not want to give up what they hold most dear, namely their worldview as expressed in their foreign policy. they do not intend to create, as the constitution proposed, a minister for foreign affairs, even mr solana, let alone give him services and credits. no, they did not intend to have the same foreign policy as, say, britain or italy or others, when they invaded iraq at the request of the united nations, without the endorsement of the security council, thus flouting international law, and the very idea that there is international law. they do not want a superpower that practices abductions, deportations and torture, as the united states does, as we have seen with the famous case of the allegedly secret flights of the cia, with the tacit consent of our authorities, in particular mr solana, who does not forget, decisively, that he was secretary-general of nato. if mr solana wants to defend human rights, well, let him stigmatize washington and its european cronies, who, by their silence, are complicit in kidnappings, torture, rather than seeking a quarrel with countries in the south that are too little aligned with his taste, or perhaps too close to france. we shall certainly vote against these appropriations and financial perspectives, which are deadly prospects for europe and for the dignity of europe.
madam president, with its various financial instruments, is the union giving itself the means to carry out its external policies fully and sincerely? a europe that disappoints is a europe that is growing in euroscepticism. to disappoint partners is to risk their turning their backs on the union. i hope that the neighbourhood instrument will be effective and bring the expected regional stability. in integrating the countries of the south caucasus into its neighbourhood policy, for example, has the union taken account of the expectations of the people concerned? i'm talking about a sub-region i know well. bordering russia, turkey and iran, it is now at the centre of european and international debate. by keeping them safe, we keep ourselves safe. to do this, the neighbouring countries need considerable resources to implement the action plans they are drawing up, and it is regrettable that the european union and parliament are not involved in the negotiations. but the important thing is that this instrument, the neighbourhood policy, accompanies these countries in their democratic process; the union can be a real player in the peaceful settlement of conflicts, in this case in the south caucasus, in the so-called 'frozen' conflicts in nagorno-karabakh and abkhazia, and in the peace plans for south ossetia. these countries have voluntarily turned to our european values and they must be supported in their action plans. i would therefore ask the commission, since we must do more and better with the means at our disposal today - which seems to be the word on the agenda - not to make a mistake in allocating the meagre resources available and to invest in projects whose fundamental principles are lasting peace and regional stability, respect for human rights and democracy, and sustainable development.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as president lewandowski said this morning, we have the final framework for the european budgets for seven years. we are therefore aware since this morning of the need for parliament to remain modest, even humble, in the proposals it may presume to make. even though this framework is new in itself, there will also be another novelty, i hope, and that is that it will be a budget for 27 member states. as coordinator of the socialists, i am keen to defend the respect of the commitments we have made to the citizens of europe. as regards our priorities, they will remain first and foremost internal policies which must support the lisbon objectives, without forgetting the environment and rural development, the only guarantee of a balanced spatial planning. promoting sustainable growth and job creation in the union requires that member states properly implement existing and proposed legislation, but also that we propose more ambitious targets in this area. 2007 should also be the year of a renewal of the policy of communication with citizens. i also call for a balanced approach to the management of the union's external borders, because we cannot be satisfied with a unilateral and security-based approach. immigration policies must be counterbalanced by the integration of third-country nationals and solidarity in border management. the protection of individual freedoms is also a matter of security, and let us not forget that! we must therefore develop policies for refugees. in foreign policy, our watchwords are development, democratisation and human rights, but also respect for the millennium development goals, which are a top priority. the union must have the appropriate tools to exert its influence on the world stage. finally, i would like to express my support for the european investment bank's co-financing of programmes which are crucial to the implementation of the lisbon and gothenburg strategies. this is a good arrangement. i would like to stress, however, the need to guarantee public financing of a sufficient size to create the conditions for the leverage effect expected by the eib. the loan guarantees and other equivalent measures are not intended to replace the fresh money that only the union can guarantee. i would like to say, madam commissioner, that i read with great interest that the commission was counting on an acceleration of european growth in 2006. this is a significant increase, as it is forecast to increase by 2.6%. we read in your communiqués that europe could create 3.6 million jobs. apart from the fact that these forecasts remain fragile, particularly because of the fluctuation prevailing in oil markets, do you think that this growth will be sufficient to provide europe with the financial means necessary for its development? finally, i wish james elles good luck in his attempt to give this budget ambition, but i think he will have a hard time finding the means for an ambitious policy that europeans expect in such a rigid and narrow budgetary framework.
for the greens/efa group mr president, our rapporteur has done a very serious and thorough job. it is not an insult to him to say that the interest of the exercise we are engaged in this evening is rather limited, if not very limited, particularly by the vote which our parliament took this morning. since parliament has said that the financial perspective should be increased considerably and since it expects to obtain a three-digit increase, i had hoped that it would be at least two-digit. this morning we voted for a small one-digit increase: 2 billion plus 2 billion. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the rapporteur has stated from the outset that the financial perspective for 2007-13 is retrograde and therefore unable to meet these challenges. it also states in point 2 that the annual political strategy does not reflect the urgency with which these challenges must be met. that's all i have to say. in these circumstances my group is obviously trying to define some priorities. the first, which is in line with the rapporteur's view, is to maximise the impact. when you have little money, you might as well use it efficiently. serious studies on cost-effectiveness are therefore needed, particularly in the context of the lisbon and gothenburg strategies. it is too often forgotten that they are not only about competitiveness but also about the social and employment aspects. investing in sustainable development, according to the greens, is a good thing. the second priority concerns the appointment clause. we believe, or rather we are still trying to believe, in the appointment clause, which we also voted on this morning. this clause may finally open up new possibilities, particularly in agriculture. i regret, however, that our socialist friends have decided to delete the passage on aid to agriculture, possibly at national level. this morning, with that appointment clause, we left a few doors open. we are seeing that they are very narrow tonight, despite the quality of the work done by our colleague. please, let's not reform them!
mr president, madam commissioner, as we begin to draw up the 2007 budget, i share the concern expressed by mr elles in his report about the gap between the ambitions the european union has set for the future and the budgetary diet to which it has unfortunately resigned itself, this morning, for the next seven years. in 2007, however, the budget estimates should allow the current guidelines to be continued, while at the same time launching the new generation of european programmes, particularly those relating to regional policy. the new financial perspectives will be accompanied by new regional development programmes, which will have to be familiarised with. we have repeatedly said that cohesion policy is essential to the overall dynamism of europe. it must enable the regions, in their diversity, to complete their transformation and prepare for the future under the best possible conditions, and thus to reach an optimum level of development. the role of european regions is central to the lisbon strategy, and the new structural policy will always have to be able to strengthen economic and social cohesion and reduce the gap between the levels of development of both the new and the old member states. it is to achieve these objectives that it must be endowed with the appropriate financial means. it is therefore important, as mr elles has stressed in his report, to ensure throughout the budgetary procedure that the funds allocated to this policy are up to the challenge. we will therefore ensure that these priorities are respected and that sufficient resources are allocated to them when the draft budget for 2007 is drawn up.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to quote one of the sentences in the excellent report by our colleague mrs krehl: 'the european parliament is confident that the commission and the council will take account of the european parliament's suggestions, which are necessary for the european parliament to be able to approve the strategic guidelines'. you have heard correctly, commissioner, as i heard you correctly earlier in your opening remarks, and although you have mentioned the regions several times, the word 'city' appears only once in your communication. this is why, three weeks ago, at the plenary meeting of the committee of the regions, mr haüpel, mayor of vienna, replied to a journalist who asked: 'the urban dimension has been integrated into the convergence and competitiveness objectives. are you afraid that without further details, she will go through the trap?" this is why the strategic guidelines for cohesion are of crucial importance. i personally would like to see a fourth priority added to the community strategic guidelines, focusing on cities and urban regions and their place. i would like to make it clear that by 'city' our committee on regional development means not only the city or the agglomeration but also, as mrs krehl's report has repeatedly emphasized, any territorial area which includes the city centre, the agglomerations on the periphery and all the rural areas which live in symbiosis with the city. all these territories are indisputably not only places where 80% of our population is concentrated, but also places which are essential for the development of our europe through the lisbon and gothenburg objectives. the report by mrs krehl gives a great deal of importance to cities. the aim of my speech at this time is to recall, while regretting that the presidency in office is not represented, that the members of our committee, the members of our intergroup have repeatedly urged the council to put pressure on the member states to ensure that they all take account of the urban dimension: the objectives of lisbon and gothenburg cannot be achieved unless the urban sectors play their full part in the framework of cohesion policy. the commissioner, while regretting the absence of the council, expects you to make a full commitment to this: cohesion policy must be able to bear its full fruit through the full participation of the urban sectors.
mr president, like all the other speakers before me, i welcome the quality of the work done by mrs krehl and, with her, i would like to stress the major importance of the objective of territorial cohesion, which seems to me to be decisive for the future of our european union. in my view, this is not quite clear enough in the commission's proposal. in addition, the shifting of appropriations - i believe it is also called earmarking - to the lisbon strategy, which was introduced surreptitiously by means of an annex to the general regulation on the structural funds, risks further exacerbating the inter- or intra-regional disparities which, i believe, have contributed to the constitutional impasse in which we find ourselves at present. this would be particularly the case in countries or regions falling under the competitiveness and employment objective. the obstacles to development are both different and variable according to the geographical situation of the regions. in particular, i would like to stress that accessibility remains a mandatory point of entry, a prerequisite for the competitiveness of more or less peripheral or landlocked regions and therefore for their eventual accession to the lisbon strategy. if strictly applied, earmarking, as set out in the annex, would block these regions, in particular by preventing them from financing the essential transport infrastructure. moreover, it is a very technocratic construction which, i believe, would make the union's regional policy even more opaque and incomprehensible to our fellow citizens. is that what we want? obviously not. that is why, commissioner, it is important that we have clear confirmation that the necessary flexibility will be accepted both in the national strategic reference frameworks and in the regional operational programmes. i have had some discussion with mrs hübner and it seems to me that she is sensitive to this, but i would really like the commission to take this into account.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with very sensitive issues. and the different disasters that have happened, the pain that they cause, that we share with the victims as much as possible when we are outside, the discontent that is expressed, shows how delicate these issues are. in the course of our discussions we have listed what these various natural disasters might be: fires, cyclones, tidal waves, earthquakes, floods, health crises, terrorist attacks, droughts, lack of drinking water, industrial, technological, agricultural disasters, and i am sure i am forgetting some of them. this is a long list of demands to our union and a call for it to assume its responsibilities. but these responsibilities, as we have seen in our discussions, are shared by many partners. first, sometimes by those who are the cause of the disaster, a fire, for example. but also by the insurance companies, which are obviously concerned, by the member states, by the various organizations. what is the role and mission of the european union in this overall framework? as my colleague mrs madeira has just said, if we have a responsibility for solidarity, we must assume it within the framework of our powers. but what are these skills, before, during and after these natural disasters? i think that after hearing our colleague mr galeote draw up a fine list, it will be appropriate, commissioner, to be very clear about this responsibility of the union before, during and after disasters. i think that we have a role to play in research and coordination, both in terms of prevention and in terms of control. as regards the ex post facto measures involving our solidarity fund, our colleague mr berend has done a very good job, but there is still a lot to be done, because it will always be very difficult, given the diversity of cases, the diversity of funding, to find perfectly adapted solutions. we are facing a huge construction site. what i am asking you, commissioner, is to find a better solution, to ensure that there is a very high degree of clarity in the european union's response to these disasters. our citizens need a european union which is very clear in the measures it takes.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have long subsidized development in the fields of agriculture, industry and transport, which has degraded the environment and led to the alarming situation we are experiencing today, and we are paying the price: natural disasters are the forerunners of these errors. today we are dealing with the damage of these disasters and we all agree to support the victims, to help them rebuild and rebuild their lives after the disaster and to support the disaster fund in order to show solidarity with all these victims and to show that the european parliament is interested and cares for its fellow citizens. however, we also ask, on behalf of the greens, for investment in prevention and restoration, rather than just curing the ills. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one. what shocks me is that the committee on agriculture is asking that the aid not be charged to the cap. we have just seen a year of a huge battle to secure funding for the conservation of natura 2000 biodiversity, and we have failed. yesterday we all saw that failure. as a reporter for life+, i cannot accept that this program, which is already a real pain in the ass, is being used as insurance against disasters that are becoming less and less natural. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the danube floods are an example. the dams had to be removed because the delta of the danube, which is flooded, was practically dry. today we must ask the crucial question: what kind of agriculture and transport do we want to have tomorrow if we consider the kyoto protocol to be the centrepiece of climate change and the fight against it? we must look for the causes of these changes, and we in the european parliament know them: they are changes in transport modes. yes to a solidarity fund, yes to aid for victims, but let us really look for the causes, otherwise we will be fixing a bottomless pit.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs, and in particular mr galeote and mr berend, on the accuracy of their reports and the quality of their reporting. i am pleased to note the agreement reached between our parliament and the commission that the scope of the next solidarity fund will now cover not only natural disasters but also industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and major public health crises. i thank the members of the committee on regional development for supporting my amendment to specify that special attention will be paid to remote or isolated regions such as the island and outermost regions. this clarification guarantees the possibility, as from 2007, of making the fund available to the doms, even if they do not fully meet the general eligibility criteria, so that they can benefit from emergency aid in the event of a major crisis. the own-initiative report of the committee on regional development underlines the disastrous impact of these disasters on the economy, employment, natural and cultural heritage, the environment and tourism, and rightly emphasizes the need for effective measures in terms of alert, civil protection and assistance to the regions and populations affected. i thank the rapporteur for including my amendments on the outermost regions in the european strategy which he calls for, aware that, because of their geographical location, these regions are exposed to natural hazards of a specific nature and intensity. in the face of the multiplicity of threats that regularly afflict these regions, from tsunamis and volcanic eruptions, to earthquakes and cyclones, and now the reactivation of the virological risks conveyed by mosquitoes, such as chikungunya in réunion or mad cow disease in guyana, the overseas populations are awaiting an appropriate response from europe in terms of security, prevention and solidarity. our parliament today proves that it has heard them perfectly well.
in writing. as a representative of a french region particularly affected by unemployment and relocations, le nord-pas de calais, i naturally support the ambition expressed in the report to support growth and employment. but european regional policy cannot achieve these objectives. the french cantons of hainaut have already lost structural fund objective 1 funding in 2000. between 2007 and 2013, european regional expenditure will increase by 31%, but as a consequence of unprepared enlargement, the share allocated to french regions will decrease further. above all, european regional aid does not call into question the policy of a europe without frontiers in brussels, which, while confining our companies and farmers to increasingly restrictive directives, leaves them to the savage competition of countries like china, which practice genuine social dumping. almost a year ago the french and dutch peoples said 'no' to this europe of economic stagnation and social regression. only a different europe, based on the sovereignty of its nations and on free cooperation, will enable our countries to enjoy genuine economic and social growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, mr rolf berend, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european social fund at first reading. the fund, which was set up in 2002 and is only responsible for natural disasters, needed to be reformed urgently in order to broaden its scope, simplify its use in the face of emergencies and, finally, avoid abuse. major changes in climate, industry and technology, but also terrorism, health risks, etc., made it essential for the european union to provide its citizens and member states with a tool capable of coping with a disaster that a member state alone would be helpless to face. the reform of the fund is an essential element of security in today's risky society.
in writing. although the basic idea of the energy community treaty (ect) seems to be good, since it is intended to help the countries of south-east europe which are experiencing considerable difficulties in this field, we believe that this treaty suffers from two major shortcomings. firstly, the treaties do not confer any competence, let alone such important competence, on the european union in the field of energy, the commission having used the provisions on competition policy to confer it. secondly, the ultimate objective of the ect is to create an internal energy market between the european union and nine other countries, even though within the eu this policy has shown its limits: gradual replacement of public monopolies by monopolies or quasi-monopolies with the undermining of public services, increase in electricity prices even in countries whose electricity production is very little dependent on the price of oil, risk of shortages in the short term due to a policy favouring deregulation over security of supply... there were other ways of helping our european neighbours to meet their energy needs than by creating a controversial institutional and political system within the european union itself. but as usual, the europeanist ideology won.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague richard howitt on human rights in the world in 2005 and the european union's policy on the matter. at a time when attacks on the great achievements of human rights are permanent and insidious, the role of the european union, a humanist civilization in the making, is essential. the european parliament, as the representative of the citizens of the union, has a heavy and immense responsibility in this respect. first, within the union itself, by ensuring that the member states ratify and implement the major international human rights treaties. secondly, the union, as an area of peace and democracy, must remain the guarantor of human rights in the world by ensuring that our declarations based on our values are followed up in all european policies.
in writing. this report will not improve the human rights situation in the world any more than previous reports on the same subject. but his real goal is elsewhere. it aims to increase the powers of the europe of brussels in foreign policy. in referring to the 'considerable impact that the european union can have on human rights when it speaks with one voice', particularly at the un, and in making proposals to increase this 'impact', mr howit's report is in line with the logic of gradually dispossessing the member states of their sovereignty in foreign policy matters, to the benefit of the european institutions. this is the ambition of the common foreign and security policy, the cfsp, which consists, among other things, in depriving france of its seat as a permanent member of the united nations security council. on the other hand, article 97, which requires european governments to be even more lax than they are with regard to non-european immigration, is endangering the human rights situation in our own countries. the increase in the number of lawless areas in our agglomerations is one of the consequences of the uncontrolled immigration that our peoples have been suffering for the last 30 years.
in writing. the absolute search for prevention and, to this end, the conduct of technological research and development, public awareness, emergency coordination and the deployment of a civilian force in the event of a natural disaster are essential elements that we must plan and implement as soon as possible. i am, however, opposed to any establishment of an observatory. this structure may cost a lot of money for a meagre result. and above all, the funding for the operation of this observatory would cut all the more the necessary support for field activities. it is always very easy to create observatories, but almost impossible to remove them!
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i am very sorry to hear what i have just heard - well - we hear so much of it here. we can acknowledge taiwan's achievements in the field of health, as well as its commitment to international health activities. but from a legal point of view, it is not possible for taiwan to obtain observer status in the world health organization. only states can have this status. european policy recognises the one china; the european parliament supports this position. in our previous resolutions on the same subject in 2002 and 2003, the commission had replied that it would study the question of taiwan's participation in the work of the who, in particular through non-state channels, for example through an ngo. the taiwan authorities are members of the world medical association and the network of epidemiology training programmes. both ngos are themselves members of the who global alert network. they're part of the alert system. currently, it is incorrect to say that taiwan does not enjoy the protection of the united nations. nevertheless, we can ask china to consider taiwan's participation in an appropriate area of international cooperation in public health.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we can all agree that it is unacceptable that the island of taiwan should be excluded from the world health organization and its alert and action network. however, since 1971, when the chinese seat of the united nations was assigned to the people's republic of china, the problem has arisen. we are not dealing here with diplomatic problems, we are dealing with health problems. however, the statutes of the world health organization do not provide for observer status; we must therefore find and propose compromises that allow taiwan to participate in the work of the world health organization. one solution would be to go through a non-governmental organisation and in particular a foundation, which would allow the taiwanese authorities to have a delegation separate from the chinese delegation, and thus access to the world health assembly. i shall nevertheless vote in favour of the resolution which has been proposed, but i do not think we should confuse the different problems.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, a preliminary remark, if i may, since we are inaugurating a new type of debate today. i think it is not possible to give a serious answer in three or four minutes to a speech ex cathedra of three quarters of an hour, which is more profound. i think we'll have to revise the procedure. i have a lot to say about some of the ideas put forward by mr verhofstadt. for example, the idea of reducing the reasons for the union's crisis to a question of method, which in his view is not federal enough, bypassing the content of economic and social choices. that is an analysis which i find short and which my group does not share. or the idea of establishing, in the name of socioeconomic governance, social maxima alongside the already existing minima. i do not quite understand his reasoning, which seems to me to be going in the wrong direction. i would also like to say a lot about mr verhofstadt's plea for a military europe and its further integration into nato, a plea in which we do not agree. i shall not be able to go into these various points now, because i would like to dwell on another point which i think mr verhofstadt has gone too far too quickly. i think that is the main problem we have today: the reasons for the growing gap between europeans and the union. the results of the commission's consultation do, however, give us valuable information on the origin of this dissatisfaction, and i would like to mention three of them. first, 47% of those interviewed in this consultation see globalisation as a threat to employment. in october 2003, 56% saw this as a good opportunity; they're 20% less in this case today. in october 2003, europe was no more federal than it is today. another result: what is the opinion of the respondents about the role played by the european union in some 15 areas ranging from environmental protection to the fight against terrorism and social policy, with the protection of social rights appearing at the bottom of the list? satisfaction rate: 4.7 out of 10. this has nothing to do with the more or less federal nature of the union. the satisfaction index for europe's ability to combat unemployment, which is at the bottom of the list, is 3.8 out of 10. this is an average of the 25 member states. what would you think of the academic performance of a student who scored 3.8 out of 10 in a core subject? this is the perception of europe's current ability to respond to the problems of globalisation. i think that's the first problem. we can't treat it with a twirl. finally, what do the majority of europeans surveyed consider to be the 'key element for the future of europe'? the answer most often given is to achieve comparable living standards throughout the union. this is the view of 51% of the 25 member states and 74% of the new member states. our new citizens clearly do not want their countries to be a kind of low-cost europe, a discount europe, as businessmen dream of. in short, globalisation is seen as a threat to the social model, and the single market is not seen as a solution to this fundamental problem. the unhampered transatlantic market project on the agenda of the forthcoming eu-us summit will not ease the worries. i think that leaving this part of the debate aside once again will not help us to break the deadlock. only by accepting real changes, not only institutional but also in economic, social and political orientations, will we have a chance of reviving the european dream. (applause from the left)
mr president, i find it very positive and very encouraging to see, at last, a european head of government advocating, committing himself and even campaigning, with an excellent book which i recommend to you, for a revival of european construction. in the present circumstances, that is commendable. mr prime minister, we agree with your assessment. europe is experiencing a crisis of vocation, a crisis of inspiration and in the face of this situation the european council cannot simply extend the period of reflection by one year. what the peoples need is not a flight forward. what the people of europe expect from their political leaders is that they should offer them a vision and outline perspectives. i would like to say a few words about these perspectives. firstly, as you keep saying, we urgently need economic governance for europe. we have created the euro, which is good, but it is not enough. if we want to create growth and jobs, we all know that we must go further and finally coordinate our economic, budgetary and fiscal policies. secondly, we urgently need new common policies: i am thinking of research and development, i am thinking of defence, i am thinking of the question of energy, its production and its transport, i am also thinking of the question of migration and co-development. it would be quite illusory, even false, to think or to pretend that the appropriate answers to each of these questions could be national. we also urgently need a reasserted european presence in the world to finally achieve a new balance. to achieve all this, we will obviously need to write a new constitution, one that is shorter, simpler and more readable, and which is based on the main principles on which our union is founded. this text must say who we are, what we stand for as values and as a political project. mr president, i would like to say that i am very pleased that the european council has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr de gaulle said that we must, and i quote, 'go to the complicated east with simple ideas'. i suggest you apply the formula to the constitution. i am french and i am starting from a postulate which is probably self-evident: the french will not re-vote the same text. let's get out of here. let us go even further with the ratification. i personally wish it, it is a right for the peoples, it is a duty for the rulers. it'll probably get us a few more "noes", but we're getting there. that means that, whatever happens, it will take a new trick - i say "trick" to avoid the words that annoy. so we end up with as many ratification procedures as there are countries, that is to say not 25 but 27 with the romanians and bulgarians, who are always forgotten because their accession is ratification, it is included in the treaty. so we go around the country, but it can happen again and again. i agree with you on this point: we must blow up unanimity. the lock must be blown and for that, declaration 30 must be written differently. in this way, if, for example, when the time comes, 22 of the 27 countries say yes and 5 say no, the 5 who said no will either accept the majority rule or withdraw. otherwise, we'll just keep going around in circles, pausing and pausing and thinking and thinking. whatever happens, it will not be the same text and we need a different ratification logic, otherwise i bet we will be here every year.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, in the context of transatlantic economic relations, it is important to recognise the role and specificities of the cultural and educational sectors. we are therefore pleased to note that the rapporteur has taken account of the whole of the opinion of the committee on culture and education. the 'cultural key' can indeed help to strengthen our relations and foster mutual understanding between europeans and americans. the establishment of a dialogue on culture and education would therefore encourage the regular exchange of good practice and experience in areas such as the fight against piracy, the mobility of cultural operators and the development of cultural tourism. in the field of education, this dialogue would focus on strengthening the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, but also on exchanges of researchers, university professors and students. it is also worth noting that the forthcoming renewal of the cooperation programme between our two continents in the fields of higher education and vocational training will also do much good. the specific nature of the audiovisual sector, on the other hand, requires that transatlantic exchanges take place with respect for europe's cultural and linguistic diversity. on this point and in conclusion, we regret that the united states did not wish to follow the union's action in favour of the unesco convention. in conclusion, i would like to commend erika mann on the quality of her work and her listening.
mr president, it is clear that the united states and the european union must strengthen their dialogue and cooperation in the economic, commercial, regulatory and even social fields by promoting decent work, as the trade unions of workers on both sides of the atlantic want. the question is not whether transatlantic relations should be improved, but how. from this point of view, i do not believe that the answer is necessarily to build a barrier-free transatlantic market by 2015. are all obstacles to the transatlantic market reprehensible? no, i'm not going. do we want to open up our market to gmos or hormone-enhanced beef? no, i'm not going. i therefore hope that the transatlantic agenda will be based on the pragmatic pursuit of the general european interest, and not on the unrestricted adherence to free trade which has become an end in itself. i would add that i doubt that the time is right to propose a bilateral initiative of this magnitude, even though our american partner is threatening global macroeconomic stability by running up trade and budget deficits, and even though he is publicly questioning the merits and principles of multilateralism, or opposing initiatives such as kyoto or the international criminal court. i therefore hope that the excellent mann report will be amended tomorrow to that effect.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all my colleagues for their support of this text and for the efforts made by each of them to find a solution. i also thank the council and the austrian presidency for listening to parliament and making the regulation on paediatric medicines a priority. finally, commissioner, i would like to thank your staff for their technical contribution and the proposals they have made to us. i really enjoyed working with them. thanks to the work of all of us, we will be able to adopt a regulation of great importance for health in europe, and we will be able to do so as soon as the second reading. we all agreed on the objective and our discussions have brought us back to the same point on the implementation of this regulation. it seems inconceivable that in 2006 our children cannot have access to a therapy tailored to their needs. it is a reality. today, many of the medicines given to children are not designed for them. often the products used for the young are the same as those prescribed for adults, only with lower doses and sometimes with catastrophic consequences. a child's metabolism is different from an adult's. children therefore need a specific form of the drug, not only to make it better tolerated but also to make it more effective and safer. with this european regulation we are meeting all the conditions for the creation of paediatric medicines, in particular by supporting innovation and research and by creating incentives for pharmaceutical laboratories, while obliging them to develop a paediatric form for any new medicinal product and to make these products available in all member states. the council had already followed the recommendations of the european parliament at first reading on many points. i am thinking in particular of the incentive system which extends the term of protection certificate for any new paediatric indication by six months. the council also adopted, at first reading, the european parliament's request to avoid additional clinical trials being carried out on children when they are not necessary. by the time we got to the second reading, we had little to disagree with. the commission had to agree on technical details. we have therefore reached an agreement between the three institutions, in particular by applying the principle of better regulation. i am thinking in particular of the question of the independence of the members of the paediatric committee and of pharmacovigilance. we have already adopted strong measures on these points in previous legislation. it is therefore more relevant to refer to it rather than to pile up the rules. this agreement also follows from the european commission's acceptance of our request concerning the use of potentially dangerous substances in the packaging of the medicinal product. we welcome the official declaration which has been presented to us and we naturally expect concrete results. there is also another point to which i would like to draw the attention of the european commission. this is the time between the granting of the marketing authorization and the medicinal product being made available to the patient. there is a directive on transparency, which sets deadlines for fixing the price and refunding the products. the differences between member states in terms of time limits are too great. this situation has negative consequences for patients. i have discussed this with my colleagues from all the groups in this parliament and we would like to ask you what can be done to reduce these disparities. finally, the commission's initial proposal stipulates that any application for extension of the supplementary protection certificate due to a new paediatric indication must be submitted at the latest two years before the expiry of the said certificate. i share this approach, but we must be pragmatic first and foremost. if we adopt such a measure suddenly, we risk being deprived of medicines which, at the time of the implementation of this text, would be in that two-year period. in view of this article, it would then be impossible to carry out investigations to develop a paediatric indication. the transitional clause which we are proposing, with the agreement of a majority of my colleagues, is intended to correct this perverse effect. we therefore ask that for five years any application for extension of the supplementary protection certificate on the basis of a new paediatric indication may be submitted at the latest six months before the expiry of the certificate. after this deadline, the original proposal of the european commission will apply. we appreciate your following us on this point. in conclusion, this text gives us the opportunity to turn words into action in support of our european research: that is what we are going to do tomorrow. there are major debates under way on how best to promote europe to our citizens. europeans need no more fancy phrases, they want action. the regulation on paediatric medicines is a concrete response to this expectation. this text clearly shows the added value of europe in everyday life: a member state acting alone would not have the means to promote such a policy in favour of all children.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the organisation of health care in the member states is based on solidarity through hospital networks, social security systems and mutual societies. the pharmaceutical industry, on the other hand, selects its patients according to their resources, i am thinking of the pathologies of poor countries, or according to the number of patients concerned. that is why it is now up to us to legislate on the question of paediatric medicines. we welcome the adoption of this report tomorrow, because we all want children to have access to medicines adapted to their age and disease as soon as possible. that said, i regret, as mrs grossetête has also stressed, the retention of the two-year time limit for placing a medicinal product on the market, and i also regret that the amendment to reduce this time limit was not supported. i also regret the long delay in drawing up an inventory of paediatric treatment needs. these delays are in contradiction with the declarations of urgency we make in this house. finally, as regards the provisions on risk management and pharmacovigilance, we must be vigilant about their proper implementation and amend our text if necessary.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work and the importance she has attached to our cooperation. the european project draws its richness from the cultural diversity of the member states of the union. intercultural dialogue is therefore a process that must be encouraged more than ever. the european year of intercultural dialogue will provide an opportunity for this. to that end, i'm considering the exchange in a two-way manner. european citizens must be able to open themselves to the cultures of other european countries and third countries, especially neighbouring countries. it is also a matter of making the rest of the world aware of the union's cultures and values in order to foster mutual understanding. intercultural dialogue should also be a means of integrating immigrants into society. as a non-existent rapporteur on the committee on civil liberties for the european year 2007, i stress the importance of cohesion and consistency in the actions to be carried out during 2007 for equal opportunities for all, just as i stress the importance of cohesion in the actions to be carried out in the context of the cultural dialogue in 2008, because these two years are complementary. i also invite the commission and the parties concerned - in particular civil society, as the commissioner said - to take the opportunity of the major events planned for 2008, such as the football world cup or the olympic games, to raise awareness of intercultural dialogue among the population, and particularly among the target group of young people.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to commend the excellent work of our rapporteur, mrs angelica niebler, who has always taken account of the different views of her colleagues in order to improve this revised directive as much as possible. i would therefore hope that the result obtained would not remain a dead letter, much less a mere declaration of intent to the member states, as is often the case when it comes to equality and treatment between men and women. do i need to remind you that a better reconciliation of work and family life is a prerequisite for meeting the objectives of the lisbon strategy and the growth in employment that the eu has set itself? i would like to thank the commission and the council for agreeing to make a statement on parental leave as requested by the european parliament. i am also pleased with this agreement between our institutions, because the revision of these seven directives in the field of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and working conditions will indeed make it possible to increase transparency and clarify the respective rights of our fellow citizens, particularly in the field of direct or indirect discrimination, harassment, as well as in the field of equal pay or occupational pension schemes. on this last point in particular, i would urge you, commissioner, to force france to respect the commitments it made when ratifying the treaty of rome, which first condemned all discrimination between women and men, particularly in the determination of their pension rights. the deadline for transposing council directive 96/97/ec of 20 december 1996 on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in occupational social security schemes was 1 july 1997. to date, france is still in breach of community law, as the directive has not yet been transposed. what are we waiting for? i also welcome the fact that the time limits for transposition and penalties laid down by this recast directive in the event of non-implementation of the text have been reduced compared to the original proposal. the collection of statistics will also enable us to have an overall picture and to assess the developments and corrections made at european level. it is our responsibility to establish a genuine european policy on equal treatment for men and women, which is effective and capable of rapidly changing attitudes, which is essential for a real transformation of society. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, it is a well-established fact that in the field of employment, men and women are not treated equally. the european parliament has been concerned about this for years and regularly publishes reports calling for its pious wishes for holy egalitarian resolutions: remarkable gas engines or windmills, everyone will appreciate. but seriously, should not our institution focus its efforts on bringing people and their elites closer together? because, one year after the resounding 'no's' of the french and the dutch, it is clear that no one wants to join this europe led by european commissioners, this globalist europe, and that the gap between what the eurocrats want on the one hand and the nations of europe on the other is growing. instead of obstinately seeking new ways of circumventing the 'no' vote on the european constitution, should not the plans of brussels and parliament finally be inspired by listening to and respecting the people?
mr president, i would like to thank mrs járóka for the quality of her report and the seriousness with which she considered the amendments tabled. i am also very pleased with the outcome of the vote in the committee on women's rights and gender equality. i had in fact emphasized in my amendments a few points which i consider to be fundamental when we look at the situation of roma women in particular: the need for roma children to learn to read and write, the importance of social diversity in housing and the need to provide reception areas for non-sedentary roma. access to education still seems to be a problem for the rapporteur, but my colleagues on the committee on women's rights have overwhelmingly chosen to support my proposals and i thank them for that. i hope that the same will be true in the plenary and, more generally, that this excellent report will be very widely supported, because it is initiatives like these that help to inform european citizens and improve the daily lives of the roma and their integration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that we should be giving an ambiguous signal on such a vital matter. we are aware of the situation in guantanamo. it was signed by the united nations, by the international organizations. so any delay, even to your defensive body, would be interpreted as a sign of hesitation on a subject on which we must be extremely clear. i therefore think that we should vote today. (applause from the left)
mr president, i simply wanted to know why this report, which requires a qualified majority, was postponed at the end of the sitting when we know that there are members who are leaving. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. smes are the economic heart of our countries, the real creators of jobs and wealth. we therefore have to approve the rapporteur's concern to put them in the focus of this framework programme for innovation and competitiveness. in today's fierce global economic competition, it is often the technological advance, however small, which is always costly and requires constant work, that allows smes to survive. we would therefore like to see the programme accessible to small structures. information on the support they can claim must actually reach small businesses, not just those who can afford to finance specialised aid-hunting services. the rules for participation in these programmes must be really simple and transparent, and not lead to dissuasive cost-based dossiers for smes. coherence and complementarity with other european programmes, and in particular the 7th framework programme for research and development, must be ensured. the demand for better, simpler community rules, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, must cease to be the slogan repeated a thousand times but never applied, as it has been for the past 20 years. we'll see how it goes.
in writing. persistent economic problems in developing countries, particularly in africa, are hindering growth and, at worst, are causing wars and famine. besides globalization, the main cause of the problem is widespread corruption both at the national and local levels. the scourge is linked to the lack of control and the misappropriation of a large amount of international aid. like us, their families must be able to live off their work. agriculture, craft industries and industry must be maintained, while jobs in the service sector must grow within a healthy social framework, allowing a virtuous economic and social cycle. this hope should not be a pretext for a false naïve talk. yes, we want and must support smes in developing countries, but as long as the word 'cooperation' rhymes with 'corruption', it will be impossible to help these countries to take responsibility for the good of their people. the redefinition of controlled and conditional cooperation must no longer be a pretext for assistance but for rooting and accountability. this new cooperation will give hope to young people in these countries so that they do not end up as illegal immigrants on the shores of a europe saturated with unemployment.
in writing. when we know that women earn 11% less than men in equal careers, there is no doubt that we still need to raise awareness of the necessary efforts that each of us must undertake in order not to establish, by force, a parity and equality between men and women, which is ridiculous, but to achieve situations of justice and social balance. because progress in these areas will not be achieved through a forced feminism or through coercive measures which involve forcing the presence of women, whether in representative or management bodies, in disregard, as we all too often know, of skills and quality. let us be smart in promoting women in society, in particular by giving them a real choice between their professional and family life and also by enabling them to reconcile work and children. unfortunately, too many women today do not have that privilege.
in writing. how can you have a cultural exchange with another if you don't know who you are? you acknowledge that religious identity is an essential part of our identity to all even to our secular fellow citizens , but you have refused to acknowledge our christian roots in what is, fortunately for us, your defunct constitution. what are we talking about then? amendment no 9 talks about 'cultural civility', but that is a contradiction in terms, otherwise civility means nothing! the addition of beautiful and grand words often ends up meaning nothing. the result of your approach is relativism and betrayal: you want to promote the european year of intercultural dialogue at the beijing olympic games and thus serve as a steering wheel for a communist dictatorship (amendment no 38)! what a shame! you're going to talk about the intercultural dialogue with tibet, i suppose? that initiative alone disqualifies your project.
in writing. the natural friendly relations we have with the united states cannot mean that we should be at their beck and call in defence of interests which are not ours. that's what they'd want. we're not going to. it is in our interest to have a european currency, if it is to exist in this form, which is to be the reference currency in relation to the dollar and not the other way round. the third point is that the third world countries are experiencing balanced development, albeit without a well-considered protectionism. the aim was to have nato oppose the warsaw pact, but now that the latter has disappeared, nato's legitimacy as an institution of american domination is no longer justified; it's not to participate in all the wars that we don't have to participate in. the problem is that latin america, because of its links with portugal and spain, is not a backyard of the united states. to say all this is not to say that one is an enemy of the united states, but it is to be patriotic and concerned about one's own country.
in writing. the mann report is very critical of us policy, which is too focused on national interests. i respect, without sharing, that opinion, but i would like to see the same level of demands and indignation when this parliament debates europe's relations with countries where concentration camps and forced labour still exist. to return to the heart of the matter, i would not object to the strengthening of economic cooperation between the united states and the countries of europe if it were mutually beneficial to all parties. but there is no point in creating an 'unhampered transatlantic market', a genuine internal market on the european model, with its share of legislative and regulatory harmonization, which is intended to extend to the entire american continent. we are no longer talking about a free trade area, but about full economic integration. before the political integration? this report is symptomatic of a europe which refuses to impose respect for the interests of the member states and their peoples in order to integrate them, blend them and make them disappear in a vast global whole. we can only reject it.
in writing. a free trade area is an area without barriers, including customs barriers. it is a common market, like almost all of europe. the transatlantic free trade area is thus a common market from warsaw to san francisco, from helsinki to patagonia and from malta to the canadian far north. while european public opinion imagines that the political debate is about the future of the european constitution, the reality is simply that, from 2010 to 2015, that is to say in 5 years, the construction of a political-economic ensemble of more than 45 nations out of the 193 that the earth counts. the mann report discreetly announces the transition from the european construction to the political construction of the fourth quarter of the world. with a parliament of 45 nations, a common commercial court and the beginnings of common legislation. 90 years later, paul valéry's prediction that "europe aspires to be led by an american commission" is coming true. good-bye europe, hello the world! erika mann has written a double message: the death of the european idea and the birth of the world organization.
in writing. the european union is moving forward with the new member states joining the single currency. the langen report attempts to strike a balance between dogmatic adherence to the maastricht criteria and the stability pact, praise for the euro and common sense considerations about the state of readiness of the countries or even the capacity of the euro area to withstand an enlargement which will increase its heterogeneity and therefore its difficulties. the single currency has a significant role to play in the low growth of the countries that have adopted it (inadequate interest rates, punitive exchange rates, etc.). there is no need to bring new victims into this situation. and i wonder whether the citizens of these countries, who only yesterday shook off the communist yoke, are aware of the irreparable loss of sovereignty that the adoption of the euro represents? are they aware, above all, that the loss of their national currency was scheduled in their accession treaty? it is not a question of informing them about the actual changeover to the euro in their country, but of consulting them again, by referendum, about the disappearance of their currency.
commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, buying sex is not a sport! football and sex don't mix. the european union must appeal to the german government of angela merkel to combat trafficking in women for the purpose of prostitution during the world cup. the legal sex workers in germany, who normally receive many customers a day, will not be able to meet the additional demand of potential customers, such as the millions of men who will be watching the world cup. so, what could be more normal than the sex industry importing some 45,000 women from eastern countries, africa and latin america to meet the pleasure of these gentlemen? it is not a question of breaking german law, but of putting an end to this openly organized trafficking in women. trafficking in human beings constitutes a violation of fundamental human rights, including the right to dignity and respect for physical and mental integrity and the right not to be subjected to violence. governments must ensure that the rights of victims of trafficking, including women and girls forced into prostitution, are protected and respected. the focus should therefore be on traffickers and their organised crime networks that exploit these women, rather than on the women themselves. this sexual exploitation must be stopped and appropriate and effective measures must be taken against this sex mafia. i am particularly pleased with the petition launched by the pse group to stop this organized prostitution and this unfair treatment of thousands of women. i fully support this initiative and strongly condemn the organization of the trafficking of women, which equates them to a commodity. in this context, will you, commissioner, take account of some of our proposals, such as the launch of a prevention campaign targeting potential victims and informing them of the dangers and risks of networking, or the setting up of a multilingual direct telephone line followed by a large-scale communication campaign?
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while the tourism sector undeniably contributes to growth and employment in the european union, it has yet to bridge the incomprehensible gap between the sensible proposals to make this activity more dynamic and sustainable and the lack of concrete and rapid action. is this to be seen as a lack of interest on the part of the political authorities? however, if the proposals contained in the european parliament resolution adopted a few months ago were to be implemented, they could be a remarkable lever for the development of this sector of activity. the common promotion of the european destination is now indispensable, and this is done by means of coordination and cooperation between public and private actors. we must mitigate, even eliminate, the counterproductive effects of seasonality, and mr queiró has made a very good point of this. this is inevitably the case with the development of new forms of sustainable tourism such as agritourism, hiking, cycling and horse riding. it also means removing the obstacles faced by certain populations who wish to travel but who have difficulty doing so because of the lack of infrastructure and facilities: i am talking about the elderly and the disabled. the commission must improve the coherence of its actions in favour of tourism in relation to other related community policies. thus, any project with an impact on the tourism sector should be identified as soon as the commission's work programme is implemented. through this transversal policy, special attention must be paid to regions with natural and structural handicaps: i am thinking of the outermost and island regions and the new member states. in future, i think it would be quite desirable to involve the european parliament more closely in the decisions that are taken and to finally take account of the proposals of an assembly that represents the european citizens. at a time when the latter are doubting political power, hearing the european parliament's recommendations would certainly be the best way of restoring their confidence in their institutions.
mr president, we approve the research programme proposed to us because it focuses on fusion energy research and on safety and waste management. however, concerns remain. the so-called fourth generation plants do not seem to us to be a complete solution to the present safety and environmental problems, and they also pose the problem of the large-scale circulation of radioactive materials. first, the concepts adopted, such as sfrs, seem to be primarily in the interests of industry. secondly, as regards the information of the general public, i quote, 'the benefits of a safe use of atomic energy' must not, in view of the interests involved, lead to misinformation or even intoxication of the public. finally, the enthusiasm for international scientific cooperation which is developing, both for the fourth generation and for iter, must not make us lose sight of the fact that this cooperation is not synonymous with the absence of competition and that it will not be based on the principles of free competition but on a strategic struggle. we must prepare ourselves for this by defining clear strategies and allocating the necessary resources so that we do not trade our dependence on oil for another dependence.
mr president, if we believe that access to safe and cheap energy is an inalienable right, if we want every citizen to be able to consume the energy necessary for his development, we can only share the objectives of our colleague mr buzek's report. we need to put the ball in the court of iter and nuclear fusion. it is a future solution to guarantee energy independence, universal access to electricity and the development of skilled industrial jobs. let us recognize that alternative energy sources will not meet demand and that fossil fuels will only increase pollution. in view of this, however, i am surprised that we are being asked to cut the budget allocated to euratom. it should be the opposite! moreover, only public control, as opposed to the single energy market, will safely achieve the objectives pursued by euratom. if france has one of the cheapest electricity, if it is a developed nation, it owes it to nuclear power and the fact that the production and distribution of electricity was a public monopoly.
mr president, my contribution to the debate on this seventh fp7 will be on two subjects: the question of stem cells and the budget. research on embryonic stem cells has made great strides in medicine. this research holds great promise, especially in the treatment of genetic diseases previously thought to be incurable, as well as in cancer and the development of new drugs. the european union must move forward in this area, cautiously but surely. for this reason, it has set up the most advanced monitoring and evaluation system in the world: analyses by independent experts, analyses by national and european ethics committees, agreement of the programming committee, not to mention the obligation to respect the legal framework of the member states in which the research is carried out. funding for embryonic stem cell research is essential for several reasons: to control activities in this field, to respect our ethical values, to enable and protect the scientific advances of european researchers, to remain competitive with third countries. that is why the amendment adopted by the committee on industry is to be voted on next thursday. as regards the budget, i can only deplore its weakness, as my predecessors did. i would, however, caution against the temptation to go for areas such as agriculture and energy, which require funding, while other sectors seem to be over-endowed. in this connection, i think it is imperative to have a debate on the staffing of the joint research centre. in conclusion, while welcoming the excellent work of our rapporteur, i would like to stress the crucial importance of this programme. the creation of a european research area means that the authors of innovative projects will not have to look elsewhere for sources of funding, and that it will create a shockwave of growth and competitiveness. the seventh fp7 is one of the ways in which europe can move forward and our citizens can benefit from the benefits of european research in their everyday lives.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our assembly is about to vote on the seventh pcrd, which will thus be operational as from 1 january 2007. we wanted to avoid the risk of a blank year for research, since this area is strategic for our competitiveness against our competitors, the united states, india and china. the bet is almost won, and i warmly congratulate our commissioner, mr potočnik, and our rapporteur, mr buzek. research must contribute to strengthening our unity by integrating people and territories into the european research area and, at the same time, foster a model of smart and sustainable development, while demanding excellence and efficiency. but will we succeed? the budgetary agreement adopted by the itre committee and proposed in plenary is satisfactory in that it seeks to make the best possible use of the weak budget obtained under the financial perspective. i would like to reiterate my regret on this point and tell the member states that they must absolutely recognise the importance of research for growth and employment and prepare to complete the financial resources allocated to this sector when the financial perspective is revised. the text voted by the itre committee is well balanced in terms of content, although i regret that international cooperation to enable development and combat brain drain has not been given more support. it is good that the focus has been on health, sustainable development and energy, as well as on ict, which accounts for 40% of our growth. as regards structure and future, i am particularly pleased that the european research council is being set up quickly. the erc, with its scientific committee of 22 eminent personalities, meets the expectations of the research community. the essential basic research will thus be able to be financed in a simple way through this body operating by and for the scientific community. in addition, individual grants based on excellence will be awarded according to criteria defined by the scientists. the council's independence and transparency will give the european union real prospects and will secure the confidence of the research community. we hope that it will help to attract the younger generation of our graduates to the research professions. the decision not to decide on the final form of the erc was made in order to make it operational as from 1 january 2007 and to seek its optimum efficiency. that is why our parliament wishes to be fully involved in the decision-making process on this final form.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work and for the agreement we reached to create a specific line in this programme for research into paediatric medicines. a lot has been said about the establishment of this programme, so i will only stress three points. firstly, as regards ease of access, i recently met with sme managers who said to me: 'we will have to ask for research aid to understand the setting up of european files!' the joke is a great deal of truth: yes to the rigorous processing of applications, but no to the multitude of indecipherable forms! secondly, as regards the control aspect, it is indeed necessary to strengthen the one concerning the effectiveness of the aid granted and the use of these funds. we have to act accordingly. finally, the third point concerns the priority given to sustainable development, health and innovation, which is absolutely essential. as regards health, and more specifically embryonic stem cell research, i would stress that we must live with our century. yes, i'm in favor of this research. yes, i hope that we can help researchers to work under the right conditions, and especially without any date restrictions on the selection of these cells. the use of such a date would impede advanced research. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to say no to these new bloodlines is to deny those who suffer from diseases that are now incurable a chance at recovery. what right, what law, can we have to say to a patient: 'no, europe does not want this research! to be cured, you had to be born an american!" and that's where our problem lies. what we do not do today, what we do not decide today, the americans and the japanese will do for us.
advances in medicine, and science in general, have given rise to many debates and controversies. the crisis in the foundations of ethics is linked, in part, to a worrying development of human power that seems to be uncontrolled. the links between science and ethics directly affect human life. we are therefore led to make major political choices. our long-term responsibility is immense. cloning for research purposes deserves to be encouraged by appropriate funding for research purposes under the 7th framework programme for research activities. researchers must be able to use stem cells in both basic and applied research contexts. research for therapeutic purposes is essential to overcome chronic or degenerative diseases such as diabetes, parkinson's disease, alzheimer's and orphan diseases. the european research programme should therefore only finance research for therapeutic purposes, which is strictly controlled. it must not allow reproductive cloning or research to modify the genetic heritage of human beings. as regards the use of human embryonic stem cells, institutions, organisations and researchers must be subject to licensing and control in accordance with the rules of the member state concerned.
in writing. yes, we must protect our waters from pollution threats, while striking an optimal balance between protecting our groundwater and developing economic activities. the water framework directive, which we have waited far too long for to be implemented in some member states, sets specific objectives and insists on the polluter pays principle. the first thing to do is to ensure that they are implemented, rather than imposing new ones which are not feasible at present. because groundwater bodies are different from each other, it would be counterproductive to impose binding quality standards that would apply uniformly throughout europe. what is important is to impose general supervision, while leaving it to the member states to set threshold values for pollutants, under the control of the european union. finally, i support the request made by parliament to the european commission to propose specific measures for the protection of thermal waters.
in writing. a european system for access to spatial information can be useful, but it must take into account national characteristics, particularly in terms of intellectual property. we cannot, of course, oppose the promotion of free downloads. but to encourage this practice is to destroy all the resources which are now being used for, on the one hand, the renewal of the stock of information and, on the other hand, the purchase of new equipment linked to technological developments. finally, i regret that the issues of security/defence and privacy are not being raised at this stage. what tools will help you to cope with an order for photographs or to consult precise information on a place, a dwelling or the address of a public or private building for criminal or terrorist purposes?
mr president, it is good that the european parliament is concerned about the situation of political prisoners in guantanamo. it would be even better if he were concerned about the situation of these prisoners of conscience in european countries, and in particular the situation of the great historian david irving, who is being illegally detained in austria. that said, the situation of the islamists in guantanamo poses a real problem. either they are prisoners of war and should be treated as such, or they are common law criminals and should be entitled to a trial and to counsel and to be tried according to the rules of common law. in any case, we cannot approve the artificial maintenance of a genuine zone of lawlessness in a colonial survival, in a country, moreover, cuba, whose human rights violations we rightly criticize. the united states of america is setting an odious example for a cause that might be just, the fight against terrorism, but unfortunately in so doing it is destroying the very values it claims to uphold through its actions.
in writing. i am particularly concerned about the situation of the guantanamo prisoners, which is deteriorating by the hour. since the camp opened, there have been many suicide attempts. faced with a wall of indifference and a systematic denial of their rights, prisoners prefer to risk their lives. all these inmates want is a fair trial. if they are indeed terrorists, let them be condemned. if they're not, they should be released. for that, justice must be served. the response to terrorism is a real challenge to our values. if we cannot accept that the fundamental rights of our fellow citizens are endangered by terrorists, we cannot accept that fundamental rights are denied in guantanamo on the pretext that the number of prisoners is probably terrorist. we can only fight terrorism effectively through justice. so we must demand a fair trial on american soil for every person held at guantanamo. it's a matter of survival for a world at peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate mr adamou on his report. many members have supported the idea of a strategic stock of antivirals, and i am glad that the environment committee has supported my proposal for a compulsory licence which should allow for faster and more massive production of antivirals so that in each member state there is at least coverage of 25 to 30% of the population. but the stock of antivirals is not enough. it is fundamental to accelerate the pace of vaccine production because this is obviously what will be decisive in limiting the pandemic. i regret that, in this respect, the union has not agreed to finance - or at least my colleagues have not chosen to do so - a public-private strategic partnership on the question of speeding up the production of vaccines against avian influenza. the second point concerns antibiotics which may be in short supply once the flu starts, because there are a whole series of complications for which large stocks of antibiotics may be required, and death is not only caused by the flu but also by its complications. thirdly, the risk of shortages: if we were to switch to extremely large-scale production of antivirals in the european union, the raw materials for making antivirals and masks could run out if the supply is not guaranteed and diversified. finally, since avian influenza is only a first warning of the development, accelerated by trade, of major pandemic and epidemic diseases on the planet, and in particular viral diseases, it is absolutely essential that the union takes the lead in the production of next generation vaccines. my colleague mr bowis has just spoken about it. but the very nature of our vaccines makes it difficult to produce them if we don't have new strategies. finally, the who must have greater powers of monitoring and control because we must now stand together. the monitoring and control network must be efficient and global.
mr president, commissioner, avian influenza is becoming less common in the news, but the virus has not disappeared and the risk of mutation in humans still exists. it would be very serious to forget the danger, just as it would be wrong to say that we are ready. so let us take advantage of this temporary lull to consider carefully what measures are to be taken. the european union must be firm. i would even say that in the general interest it must go beyond some of its prerogatives to achieve perfect coordination of emergency plans, provided such plans exist. they should still be around. we must get rid of the schizophrenia of saying that the prerogatives of the member states must not be infringed upon. what will people say when there's a pandemic? we're gonna say it wasn't our fault, that we weren't responsible? we're forced to adapt our decisions to the context. it is important that the european union provides logistical and financial support to help develop vaccines. the laboratories are ready but we must support their work, because in order to develop vaccines, they must see the orders coming for the construction of strategic stocks. only then will we avoid the trafficking that could develop in the event of a crisis and ensure an equitable distribution of the products needed to combat any epidemic: vaccines, antiviral medicines, masks, etc. thus we will avoid panic that would only bring trouble. finally, commissioner, what we need is a state of affairs in each member state. let every government commit itself to solidarity! i can see from your reaction, commissioner, that this is not a given. a selfish attitude in the face of an international epidemic would be completely contrary to the european spirit. what i fear, commissioner, is that in reality, and we know that, nobody is prepared in this matter, and that is the most serious thing.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, this is the third resolution we are proposing to the european parliament on the human rights situation in tunisia. the commission and the council have expressed the same view as our assembly in september and december last year, and we were entitled to expect tunisia to respect its european commitments. this has not been the case, as is shown by the ban on the holding of the tunisian league of human rights congress and the recent heavy-handed interventions against human rights activists and legal professionals. the way in which the agreement with the european union on judicial reform has been hijacked is equally serious. this agreement, signed in december 2005, was intended to mark a real step forward in respecting human rights in that country, and above all to guarantee a genuine independence of the judiciary. the only action brought under the association agreement is therefore undermined by the fact that the law establishing the institute for the training of lawyers was imposed without the advice of the bar and placed under the sole authority of the executive. not only have the commitments made by tunisia not been met, but the expected progress has not been made. on the contrary, the latest events represent a worsening of the situation and amount to a form of provocation towards the european union, since respect for human rights is the basis of the eu-tunisia partnership. so it would be pointless to hold on to words and vows. what we expect from the commission and the council is action, since the pedagogy of dialogue does not seem to be enough. we therefore call for the early convening of an association council, the holding of the tunisian league of human rights congress in full freedom, the release of funds for civil society, and an end to acts of intimidation and harassment. we also ask that all the measures which will be considered appropriate in the context of the adoption of our resolution be accompanied by a precise and given timetable, so that no one can ignore the reciprocal commitments which bind the european union and tunisia.
for the greens/efa group mr president, today's debate echoes the one we had exactly six months ago, on 13 december 2005. the presidency then concluded its speech in the same terms as today. i quote her: 'it is now time to insist that the authorities implement the commitments made by president ben ali. the implementation of these commitments will be an essential element in the development of eu-tunisia relations.' since then, the european union has made some progress, but it has clearly shown its limitations. the deployment of tunisian police and their violence - which i witnessed firsthand - prevented the tunisian league of human rights from holding its congress at the end of may, but not, mr busuttil, by a court decision, since there are thirty-two trials against the ltdh. this is judicial harassment. the funds allocated to the associations are still blocked. many independent ngos and political parties are still non-existent. justice is always muzzled. master abu is still in prison and harassment of him, but also of his wife, is daily. you have announced to us, mr winkler, that a meeting of the association committee will be held in july. is this the response to the european parliament's express request for an emergency meeting of the association council in december to examine the human rights situation in tunisia as a matter of priority? it is therefore quite logical that the tunisian authorities are acting with a growing sense of impunity. i turn to you again, mr president-in-office of the council: how can we justify the fact that the austrian representative did not even consider it useful to travel to the congress and that he obviously did everything possible to hamper the european union's efforts there? only two member states were present at the ltdh congress. finally, i must emphasize the so-called "justice reform" project. the tunisian authorities have just voted on a draft law for the training of lawyers, against the unanimous opinion of the law council. they still refuse to allow the visit of the un special rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers, while the association of magistrates has been dissolved and replaced. in these circumstances, how can we expect the tunisian authorities to have any will to guarantee the independence of the judiciary? i think, commissioner, that the whole project should be suspended in order to review it and make its implementation and the disbursement of union funds subject to certain conditions.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, i regret to say that i have very little time, but some of my predecessors have been granted pardons, and i ask for the same. my group would like to point out that, contrary to what we like to believe here, there is no unanimity in seeking a quarrel on the human rights front with the government of tunisia, which is a friendly country. that was the point of my excellent colleague mr busuttil's speech, which i support. firstly, many feel that the internal quarrels within the league of human rights - obscure tunisian quarrels, by the way - should not be decided by the european parliament. that's not our job. secondly, many of us are pleased to see that a country in the south has been making such good progress on the road to development for many years that it may eventually become a genuinely developed country and, as such, serve as a model for the whole of the arab world, and perhaps even for the whole of africa. our admiration for tunisia is all the more keen as its government is able to keep up with the ever-recurring and threatening waves of fundamentalism and religious fanaticism. many of us are also surprised that some people can be so obsessed with this country that they spend the bulk of their parliamentary term trying to bring it into disrepute by any means possible. it's weird to say the least. and many are questioning the continued use of the double standard. we are very wary of human rights with some countries, especially when they are outside the american sphere of influence and the english-speaking world, but much less wary of others, including member countries. (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the environmental policy of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), which was adopted in april 2003, aims to ensure that projects financed by the bank respect the environment and the applicable regulatory requirements. in this respect, the ebrd reserves the right to reject any project submitted to the governing council where it considers that it does not comply with this policy. it is a publicly acknowledged fact - as the honourable members know - that the policy of the ebrd in relation to environmental standards and the precautionary principle is extremely rigorous. since 2002, the ebrd has been paying particular attention to sajalin 2, working closely with the company, sajalin energy, to assess all aspects of the project, in particular its environmental and social impacts, and to develop appropriate monitoring and mitigation measures in line with the bank's environmental policy. however, the commission acknowledges that there have been and continue to be significant concerns with respect to the sajalin 2 project, in particular with regard to the protection of the western grey whale population living in the area. the bank has responded to this concern by helping to set up a group of renowned scientists, with the participation of representatives of non-governmental organisations, to monitor the situation of whales and propose measures to reduce the potential negative impacts of the project. the company has implemented these measures and the latest comments from the group have been largely positive. in another difficult issue, river crossing, the bank has also been firm, calling for improvements in the company's performance and, in particular, the development of a river crossing strategy that imposes restrictions and ensures that there will be no net loss of salmon spawning areas. in short, the ebrd has put considerable pressure on sajalin energy to improve the environmental quality of the project. we will soon have new information from ongoing evaluations and public consultations which will enable the community manager to the ebrd, the european commission representative to the ebrd, to take a position on the degree to which the project is in line with the bank's environmental policy.
member of the commission. madam president, mr president-in-office, i have not said that the bank has decided to finance. i have said that the bank is analysing the conclusions of the expert groups which have to report on whether or not the situation corresponds to the criteria of the bank's environmental policy. if the bank is involved in the overall financing of the project, although it is involved in a small percentage, the bank, for a number of reasons which i do not have time to explain, has a great deal of influence over the company to improve the environmental and social conditions of the project. but if, in the end, the company cannot meet those conditions, the representative of the european commission will act accordingly, and i trust that the bank will do the same, applying the criteria of its environmental policy, which, as i said at the beginning, are generally recognised as rigorous and transparent criteria, because they are known throughout the world since their adoption in 2003.
commissioner, what about the indigenous peoples? on paper they were taken into account, but when we talk to them, their rights are apparently not taken into account. can you tell us a little bit about it in the context of this project?
member of the commission. first of all, this is not the first time – at least during my term – that we have had problems with exports through russia. that is why it is extremely important for member states not to give any excuse for the introduction of bans, because once they are introduced it is very difficult to have them lifted. therefore, it is very important that both eu legislation and bilateral agreements are strictly implemented by every member state so as not to give this initial justification for the introduction of bans. at the same time, it is true that it has been going on for some time, but there were problems in communications between russia and poland and, as i said, from the beginning this was a bilateral issue, so we could only facilitate. nevertheless, we intervened, we brought the parties together and, through mediation, we managed to reach an agreement. now we are following very closely the developments in this tripartite meeting, in which we will also be involved, and will try to resolve this issue as soon as possible.
member of the commission. i do not think so, because it seems that russia is ready to accept the wto’s sps requirements. nevertheless, it is not enough for russia to accept these. it has to implement them as well. therefore, these ‘clouds’ over the negotiations, while not blocking them, certainly create an unpleasant atmosphere. it is for that reason that it is important for russia to implement these sps requirements.
commissioner, since you are going to be talking to our russian counterparts, i would like to ask a complementary question, which goes in the same direction, about georgia this time. you know that russia has imposed an identical embargo on georgian wine. given that georgia is covered by the new neighbourhood initiative and that an action plan has been put in place for it, are you aware of this issue and, if not, can you look into it with a view to what response russia intends to give to georgia?
member of the commission. i am not aware of it. it does not fall under my sphere of responsibility, but i would be very happy to refer the issue to my colleague who is responsible for that area and see what she can make of the situation.
member of the commission. the undertakings made by the mauritanian government as regards respect for democratic principles when the consultations were opened under article 96 were centred on the re-establishment of a properly-functioning democracy and the rule of law.
commissioner, i can tell you that i am not at all satisfied with the answer. i regret that mr michel is not here because he is very familiar with the question of mauritania. i think that the commission could have provided more information in view of the coup d'état last august, since it proposed to send a delegation of the european union to monitor the elections there. i remind you that a referendum will be held in this country at the end of june. therefore, can you tell us whether this delegation will have a short-term or long-term mission with regard to the elections?
mr president, commissioner, on 13 september 2005 the court of justice of the european communities recognised the possibility for the community legislator to take criminal measures to ensure the effectiveness of the standards it sets. everyone understood - at any rate, in vienna, we understood - that the court had turned the principle of subsidiarity upside down to decide that, as far as community law is concerned, it was not worthwhile for the states to ensure its observance since the brussels commission could do it alone. the commission has obviously not failed to address this gap: while, strictly speaking, this new criminal jurisdiction concerns only the environment, a commission communication of november 2005 extends this jurisdiction to other matters, including the four freedoms, including the cap, including fisheries. mr cavada, our rapporteur, even extends this competence to discriminatory behaviour, which can cover all human activities and even the protection of the financial interests of the union. and that is where we see the danger of yet another coup d'état by the judges in luxembourg. on 6 april 2006, just two months ago, the european court of first instance ordered mr frattini - the commission - to pay damages to an official for a serious and manifest breach of the requirement of impartiality. rape by who? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, including the creation of a european anti-fraud office (olaf). to give criminal jurisdiction to this commission, on which the court of auditors, in its special report no 1 of 2005, observed that respect for the fundamental rights of persons under investigation was not ensured, is to risk creating a small, liberty-threatening hotbed, a kind of normative micro-guantanamo, in berlaymont. the rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties, mr cavada, is aware of the problem, since he asks that the judgment be applied with caution and he could have added: with jurisprudence, the caution of the law, and in particular of the law of the treaties, which does not allow the transfer of competence from the third to the first pillar. but since 1962 and its costa v. enel judgment, the court has been practicing the imprudence of the permanent federal coup d'état. the great british jurist dicey warned that judges must be lions, but lions under the throne, careful not to fail in any point of sovereignty. putting someone in jail is criminal law. it's not nothing.
mr president, i thank the commission for its communication on the consequences of the court's judgment on criminal sanctions and i share its conclusions. i believe that the interpretation of this judgment should not apply to the environment alone, in order to strengthen the democratic control of parliament and thus to enable citizens to be better protected. the court's judgment clarified the jurisdiction in criminal law between the first and third pillars. it provides that the purpose and content of the act itself must be taken into account in determining whether criminal sanctions are necessary. this leads us to conclude that the protection of fundamental rights is an area to which the consequences of this judgment can be extended. fundamental rights and the protection of the interests of the union should be given special attention in the use of criminal sanctions. i do not think, however, that we should limit this use to these two areas alone and amendment no 16, which i tabled with my colleague maria berger, goes in that direction. that's why i'm asking you to support him. finally, this judgment is a further signal that we should make provision, through article 42 and as you have said, for the community to be involved in all police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i say this tonight, it would allow for greater legal certainty and, above all, greater consistency in criminal measures.
mr president, someone is sorely missing from this house tonight, although he was here this afternoon. how can we tolerate, ladies and gentlemen, that this essential debate on the consequences of the case law of 13 september 2005 is taking place in the absence of the main stakeholder, the council itself? is it he who imposed this agenda to avoid having to publicly admit the profound meaning of his defeat on 13 september in luxembourg? let me be his spokesman tonight. yes, the council was defeated that day by another judicial coup. yes, despite the rejection of the ratification of the european constitution which provided for it, the pillars of competence have just merged in fact. there are no longer any intergovernmental competences in europe. yes, the member states are being arbitrarily forced to interpret the treaties they have signed. this is what the president of the french constitutional council, pierre mazot, calls a vice of france's consent. yes, this wild communitization of criminal law is unlimited, since the commission has subsequently decided to have nine framework decisions annulled, which, after the environment, allows it to get its hands on the criminal law of illegal immigration, marine pollution and intellectual property. i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, and especially the french, what are our ministers of the interior and justice now for? i have tabled, on behalf of my group, a very cautious amendment no 1 which any free member could easily support. it is an alternative which simply invites states to take back control of the treaties they sign. but how many members are there, ladies and gentlemen, who are not in office? keep bypassing the people with your judicial federalism and other plan b and you will see that 2007 will be a replica of 2005.
the rapporteur. mr president, the european union is known throughout the world for the high level of protection of fundamental rights, and in particular the protection of personal data, which it guarantees its citizens. this principle is enshrined in article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights. in the community, two directives regulate the fair processing of such data in the context of the internal market, and when a citizen makes, for example, a purchase on the internet, the company from which he makes this purchase is obliged to ask him for permission to use his data to send him commercial offers. the citizen is thus informed of the use made of data concerning him and, in principle, he can request the rectification of these data. however, this european data protection area currently contains a serious gap. there is no coordination of the 25 member states on the protection of personal data used in police or judicial work. as we work towards the establishment of a european area of freedom, security and justice, this coordination has become absolutely essential. the police forces of the member states need to work closely together and exchange data in order to combat organised crime effectively. we can strengthen this cooperation, but we must ensure that data concerning citizens is protected in the same way throughout europe. i would remind you that the european parliament has for many years called for an instrument for data protection in the context of judicial and police cooperation. we therefore welcome this commission proposal and the purpose of my report is to strengthen this proposal in order to ensure consistency with the existing data protection instruments under the first pillar. we also want this framework decision not to be limited to data exchanged between member states, but to ensure a minimum level of data protection within the member states themselves. if that were not the case, we could have two different data protection systems in the same investigation. this would not only threaten the protection of citizens but also complicate the work of the police or the judiciary. we have strengthened safeguards for the use of personal data by, and the transfer of personal data to, private parties when they process personal data in the public service. we also want guarantees regarding the use of personal data by, and the transfer of personal data to, third countries. i would remind you that the court annulled the council decision on the agreement between the european community and the united states on the processing and transfer of personal data and the commission's adequacy decision on the adequate level of protection of such data, on the grounds that the legal bases were inadequate, as you know. commissioner frattini told us that he wanted to table a new proposal for an agreement on the basis of the third pillar. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. when adopting the data retention directive in december 2005, the council gave a moral commitment to the european parliament - i would remind it - to proceed with the swift adoption of the data protection text, in full respect of the principle of sincere cooperation between the european institutions. however, this adoption has been very late and its implementation during the year is now threatened. we therefore want the council to make clear commitments today, particularly on the crucial points for the european parliament, and we expect it to present us with a timetable for adopting this framework decision. i am very disappointed in the council at the moment. and if it were not, the european parliament would feel betrayed and its confidence would be seriously shaken for the future, which is not what we want.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although my political group does not share the views of the rapporteur, i would like to thank mrs ždanoka for her work and commitment to this subject which is very dear to me. the rapporteur has shown his willingness to go further in the collective and daily fight against discrimination. this political will is essential and i take this opportunity to remind the council, which is still blocking the framework decision against racism and xenophobia, that this is an unacceptable breakthrough. my group is not entirely satisfied with the report: several paragraphs are long, unclear and the proposed definitions may lead to errors of interpretation. two issues are particularly problematic. first, paragraph 11: the rapporteur has introduced the right to vote in all elections for roma and non-citizen migrants, so my group cannot accept this proposal, which goes too far. if migrants or non-citizens wish to participate in the life of the country in which they are settled, they can simply apply to become full citizens, with the country responsible for facilitating their access to citizenship. secondly, paragraph 30: it is obviously essential to treat all discrimination on an equal footing. the fight against homophobia in our societies is therefore paramount, which is why the first part of the paragraph concerned is fully satisfactory, but we will not vote for the second part, which calls for mutual recognition of same-sex marriages. we must respect the rules and laws of the various member states. the message that parliament must send is clear: yes to respect for each individual, yes to tolerance, equal opportunities and diversity, but with due regard for the principle of subsidiarity.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the commission, mr representative of the council, the main items on the agenda of the next european council each raise in their own way the question of the meaning of european integration. this is the case with the aftermath of the famous pause for thought. this applies to the common energy policy, and europe's action in the world is no exception. i shall first refer to the recess and its extension. the first part of the draft conclusions of the brussels summit is devoted to this subject and is aptly titled 'europe is listening'. that's great, but what does she hear? the document covers measures against illegal immigration, which unfortunately is juxtaposed in the same sentence with trafficking in human beings, terrorism and organised crime; it shall address the union's crisis response mechanisms. it stressed the need to take greater account in future of the european union's absorption capacity before embarking on any further enlargement, etc. these are all questions which, i agree, are present in the debate with our fellow citizens. but, strangely enough, the one at the heart of the crisis of confidence in the union, the social question, is completely sidelined in the draft european council conclusions, which merely, in a single sentence, invite the commission to draw up a report on the situation by next spring. to say that is not to fall into cryosophilia, mr barroso. i would remind you that the austrian presidency itself had already raised this issue last january. this is what we must discuss first in order to draw the necessary conclusions. the citizens' trust is not something that can be decreed. it's earned. the commission has already made a number of proposals. helping to meet the energy challenge of the 21st century is indeed a paramount european responsibility. but it cannot accept the race to profitability, nor the all-out competition. preparing for the post-oil era, going much further in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, developing research efforts to increase energy efficiency and diversity, transforming the organization of transport, affirming the right to energy for all - these are highly political tasks which cannot, on pain of failure, be held back by short-sighted market calculations. the same debate is also being held on european ambitions in foreign policy. who can object to the commission's proposal to provide us with instruments and operating rules to improve the coherence, efficiency and visibility of our external action? but i am convinced that the underlying reason for europe's weakness in the world is neither technical nor institutional. it is due to the dramatic lack of political will and common vision in the european council. how else can we interpret the astonishing inertia of the twenty-five in the face of the irresponsible torpedoing of the palestinian president's action by the israeli government, in flagrant and permanent violation of un resolutions and the quartet's road map? all this confirms our view that the so-called pause or plan d will only be useful if they provide an opportunity for an open and unhindered debate on the structural changes that must be promoted so that europeans can once again see the positive reason for europe's existence in today's world. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the french and the dutch are persistent and they are signing. according to a british poll, 74% of the french and 75% of the dutch think that no part of the european constitution should be implemented unless a new referendum is decided. this is a stinging rejection of nicolas sarkozy who, disregarding the vote of the french people, wants to have the congress vote on parts i and ii of the constitution alone. it is also a repudiation of those who wanted to get the french and dutch to vote again on the constitution, with a social protocol to reassure the former and a protocol on subsidiarity to reassure the latter. the same poll found that 63% of french and 68% of dutch people want to take back powers from the european union or leave it. it is the revenge of the peoples of europe on the ideologically irresponsible eurocrats in brussels. it is also the return of the right of peoples and nations to determine their own destiny and to defend their sovereignty and identity. let us return to the europe of realities, the europe of nations, which the british and the danes have so well preserved. they have refused schengen and europe is being invaded by zapatero's and berlusconi's massive immigration regulations. they have rejected the euro and its growth-limiting fiscal austerity pact. they have refused to accept the european superstate, which wants to destroy the european nations. the fact that the next european council in brussels will decide to extend the period of reflection for another year reveals, if need be, the disconnect between the peoples of europe and the self-proclaimed elites, who have not learned anything and act as if nothing had happened. they did not understand that europeans felt deceived by this vacuum cleaner, ultra-liberal europe, which pays for itself with words and slogans, and which has the lowest growth rate in the world and the highest unemployment rate. they did not understand that the european peoples did not want turkey in europe and that the turkish march imposed by brussels was creating an irreparable rift.
mr president, mr minister, your presidency can already make a positive assessment. we congratulate you on that. the european council which is to be held is not in a position to take major decisions, but its influence may be decisive for the future destiny of the european union. preparing for a reset or accepting the failure is your challenge. you will have to determine the strategy for future enlargements. i call on you to put an end to this blind leap forward, which we have seen illustrated once again with the opening of detailed negotiations with turkey, when it does not meet the political conditions and is no longer making progress in integrating the acquis communautaire. the absorption capacity of the european union must now be regarded as an essential parameter. no further enlargement without improvements in decision-making mechanisms, without sufficient budget, without new resources, without real agreement on the nature of the european project. that is what we are basically talking about: continuing to build political europe by setting the timetable for implementing the main reforms contained in the constitutional treaty, which we refuse to bury. the convention has achieved a result that cannot be changed. we have to go beyond nice. what content for european policies? we do not want europe to devote the bulk of its decisions to perfecting the internal market, that is to say to making a vacuum. we want a constructive europe. we want governments and our parliament to build the policies we need: immigration, energy, economic coordination, research, security, foreign policy. europeans want more europe, contrary to what we are saying, but they want a europe which invents solidarity, which guarantees security, which imposes itself on the world, and not just a market policeman. a europe that also respects its most sacred commitments: strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament. it's going to take a lot of brains and courage. we hope that you will give us proof of this at the end of june.
mr president, apart from the spectre of european pessimism, there is another spectre that haunts europe. it's the story of autism and its parade of hypocrisy and fiction. and that spectrum feeds the one you mentioned. i too understand the attachment of the member states which have ratified it and of the majority of the members of this parliament to the constitutional treaty. like all those who campaigned for its ratification - and i was one of them in france - i remain convinced that it contains progress essential to the functioning and democratic life of the union. but we must get rid of the fiction that in time it will be possible to present the same text, with a simple annex, in the countries where it was rejected. and we must get rid of the hypocrisy of the states which have not been able to ratify it so far and which, in fact, are simply not able to obtain a majority, especially when a referendum has been promised to the population. i think we should rather acknowledge this and try to move forward, as you have proposed, mr barroso, because the life of europe cannot be made up of regrets. we need a boost, we need progress, we need progress. this revival - and i agree with you on this point too - cannot be confined to the debate on the institutions. it's through the politicians. it is a europe of projects, a europe of growth and knowledge, a europe of research, energy and cooperation in the mediterranean. and as far as the institutions are concerned, to insist on keeping the treaty in its present form may not be the best way of saving its substance. i think it is rather taking the risk of keeping it in the form of a period of reflection which the council would spend its time extending. i believe, in fact, that this exercise will soon reach its limits and that we should instead prepare to get out of it by proposing a new road map. and to get out of it, we will have to, as your predecessor, now president of the italian council, said yesterday in paris, draw up a new and simpler text, which allows for limited but essential reforms. these reforms should be clear and understandable to citizens and should focus on improving the democratic functioning of the union and clarifying responsibilities between the institutions. what reforms? i will mention six, and i think we should stop there. first, to strengthen the powers of the european parliament, whose legitimacy is increasingly recognised by the citizens. secondly, to increase the transparency of the council's work when it meets on legislative matters, because it is not acceptable that france and great britain are now blocking this transparency. thirdly, to ensure that the appointment of the president of the commission takes account of the vote of the citizens in the european elections. fourthly, to establish a power of control over subsidiarity by the national parliaments. fifthly, to review the qualified majority rules on the basis of what was agreed in the 2004 treaty so that they are based on population. and finally, indeed, to introduce a minister of foreign affairs. all these ideas have already been approved by the member states. i am convinced that in all our countries the majority of citizens would be ready to support these reforms. we need initiatives. let's stick to the substance rather than the form.
mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, one year after the french and dutch no, it is high time for europe to reconsider and propose solutions to put to good use the contents of its draft european constitution. our heads of state and government will have to debate key issues for our future: energy independence, migration, the future of the constitutional treaty and enlargement. on each of these issues, europeans expect real answers from their leaders and the courage to draw the political and financial consequences of their responses. the humanitarian situation of the migrants who are flocking to the southern shores of the union must be one of the main priorities of the europeans and calls for a common response in terms of the reception of migrants and asylum policy. it also shows the need for a thorough review of our development policy, which is clearly failing to meet the urgent needs of the people of countries we wish to help but are unable to do so. as regards enlargement, i welcome the wisdom of the european commission, which has preferred to postpone the decision on the accession of romania and bulgaria to the union until next october, depending on the progress made by each of them. however, the commission should show the same foresight with regard to turkey. i think it is very reprehensible that we have recently given such positive signals to cyprus in the negotiations for its accession, even though it still does not recognise cyprus, although it is a member of the union in which it claims to be. europe will only be strong if it is respected, and it will only be respected if it ensures that the same rules of law apply to all. finally, i would like to reiterate that the absorption capacity criterion is not an invention of some member states, but one of the copenhagen criteria. it is a trick to make the applicant countries think that they are doing them a favour by being admitted to a union which is not in order. it is a deception both to the people of the present member states and to those of the countries making considerable efforts to join the european union.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
the rapporteur. mr president, i have to report an error. the amendment to delete article 14, which was adopted in the committee on civil liberties, was not included in the versions of the report for the plenary, but the tabling office assured that this would be done after the vote in the final version. i wanted to report it.
all right, we'll take note of that. before the vote on amendment no 29
the rapporteur. mr president, the oral amendment seeks to replace the word 'commitments' in article 8d (5) with the word 'agreements'.
the rapporteur. mr president, this vote is very important. the report has just been approved by an overwhelming majority in the plenary. the commission has been very attentive to our work and has given us its support, as it reaffirmed last night. however, we have received no support from the council, which was absent from the plenary when this report was discussed. i notice that he is again absent and we are still awaiting his opinion on this report. i would remind you that the council made a moral commitment to this framework decision on data protection during the previous presidency. and parliament might feel betrayed if we do not have a firm commitment from the council to adopt this framework decision by the autumn. i would remind you of the urgency of this adoption, in view of the court of justice's decision on the pnr. i therefore ask the house to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution in accordance with rule 53 (2).
i have to interrupt you because this isn't entirely about a personal matter. perhaps you could talk about it at the end of our votes.
i withdraw your question because your starting point is wrong, because this is not a legislative text. (applause and protest) after the vote on amendment no 2, second part
the vote was taken and we are obliged to continue, but i take note of what you are saying. but we're not going to vote again, that's never done here. (protests) voting time is closed.
mr president, i still remember the cries of the left when they asked for the extradition of the lawyer klaus croissant, who we know was not only the lawyer of the german terrorists but also a member of that network. today, big brother is on the move and nothing, it seems, will stop it with this european judicial area. the automatic transfer of prisoners from one european state to another is presented as a great advance. in a certain sense, it seems that union nationals are being treated worse than nationals of third countries, who are being kept in the country that sentenced them, in the name of avoiding double punishment. you will allow me, in a europe where opinion crimes are multiplying, where the demand for national preference is equated with discrimination, the legitimate discussion of aspects of history with negationism, the rejection of communitarianisms ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. we are being asked to draw up a regulation to strengthen the european monitoring centre for drugs, to solve its administrative and communication problems and to create new posts for civil servants. but how effective has this european instrument really been when drugs are a scourge that continues to destroy families? drug abuse causes school failure, disability, psychiatric treatment, and death by suicide or overdose. we need action, not reading statistics on the rise. the committee on the environment is right to propose that we go beyond the mere collection of data to also assess member states' policies in order to benefit from best practice. this does not mean that the member states should be deprived of their prerogatives and be given to the observatory, but rather that cooperation between the member states should be strengthened. in addition to the death penalty for the major drug traffickers, a radical change in mentality is also needed to silence the leftist ideology of the last 40 years which has caused a criminal permissiveness, endorsed by wealthy governments, leading to the poisoning of millions of people whose physical consequences also lead to irreversible de-socialization.
in writing. since its establishment in 1993, the main tasks of the drugs and drug addiction observatory have been the collection, analysis and dissemination of transnational data on drug problems. thirteen years later, the record is not glorious. while there has been some improvement in the knowledge of the drug phenomenon in its various aspects throughout the european union, there has been no positive impact on consumption. on the contrary ! one thing is certain. today, drug use is no longer limited to traditional products, but we are seeing with concern the emergence of new markets for synthetic products, which are easier and cheaper to produce. they generate more profits for traffickers and are even more harmful to the health of consumers. the monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is in fact a mere database with no operational value. in fact, all the figures provided are just a cover for the failure of the various national drug control policies. it is high time that states took responsibility and stopped sheltering behind organizations which have neither the vocation nor the mission to act for them.
in writing. the judgment of the court of justice of the european communities of 13 september 2005 constitutes a real legal coup d'état in what is commonly called the community legal order. this is the first time that the court has ruled on questions of criminal jurisdiction and has decided that the european union, in order to protect the environment, may require member states to provide for criminal sanctions in the event of serious infringements. in principle, criminal legislation, like the rules of criminal procedure, falls within the strict competence of the states. with this court decision, part of the criminal law of the member states has just been communityised, and this without the formal agreement of the peoples. the european parliament has also called for the harmonization of criminal law, which was implicitly rejected by the french and dutch "no" votes in the referendum on the constitution. but worse is coming. there is a risk that this case law will be extended to all community areas, in particular to those concerning alleged fundamental rights, such as the fight against 'discrimination' and 'racism', data protection, the right to asylum and migration policies. this development is not in the direction of freedom. she's a worry.
in writing. the main proposals in this report call into question three fundamental values of european democracies: - "positive action", the european parliament's version of "positive discrimination" dear to mr sarkozy, breaks with the principle of equality between citizens of the same country. the measures proposed, such as 'priority access to certain professions', constitute discrimination against nationals of our countries, who would not have the chance to be immigrants. - "the participation of non-citizens in elections", i.e. the right to vote of foreigners, destroys the very principle of nationality. - the desire to give equal rights to homosexual couples in all member states amounts to demanding the right to marry and adopt. if this requirement were to be met, it would destroy the foundation of the family, the basic unit of any society. the report is concerned with the plight of immigrant populations and homosexual couples, but it does not mention the scandalous discrimination suffered by tens of millions of decent people who are victims of insecurity because they do not have the chance to live in protected areas, and the discrimination which, in france, deprives the millions of voters of the national front of any representation in parliament.
in writing. i supported mrs zdanoka's report because the european union must have a strong european non-discrimination strategy. indeed, throughout europe we see hateful acts, hateful speech and violence. the european union must have a strategy for equal opportunities in order to put an end to all discrimination. this european strategy can in some cases be translated into the use of positive action measures. i think, however, that positive action is different from any positive discrimination and the report explicitly states this in its article 2. we cannot encourage the fight against discrimination by creating a new kind of discrimination. positive action, on the other hand, is used to draw the attention of certain disadvantaged groups to specific measures concerning them, for example in recruitment policies. parliament also reiterated that discrimination against married or registered same-sex couples must be prohibited, as well as any other form of discrimination, in particular when these people are exercising their right to free movement within the european union.
in writing. how many times must we repeat here that the european constitution died twice: once on 29 may 2005 in france, and once on 2 june in the netherlands. the french and dutch have said no, and they have done so with full knowledge of the facts. the citizens have taken ownership of the text through the organisation of referendums. the rejection of these was both in form (the super-state) and in substance (the ultra-liberal policies proposed), not to mention the enlargement to include turkey. did you hear that? did you hear that? do you understand? you have not even bothered to do so, as the text put to the vote today proves. you are encouraging those states which have not yet done so to ratify a text which no longer has any place, preferably by parliamentary means, so that the debate can really only take place between insiders and the two 'renegade' states are forced to vote again on a constitution. plan d, which you call the implementation, is actually a plan of disinformation and denial of democracy. the real democracy here is not participatory, not even representative. it is a referendum. and that's why you're afraid to tell the people the truth about what you've taken from them.
there may be some voting corrections, yes. that said, i have had a number of testimonies from colleagues that things happened in the clearest way and i find it a little easy sometimes to blame the interpretation. so you can change your vote, of course, but otherwise i consider that things went quite normally.
mr president, commissioner, when you were reviewing the lisbon strategy, you decided to dissociate the lisbon strategy from the sustainable development strategy, which seems to me to be a mistake. these two tools are more than complementary; they are inseparable. that is why today we have the impression that you are making ideology without action. for reasons of credibility, it is not possible to claim that sustainable development is one of the three pillars of the lisbon strategy without creating the necessary bridges. as for the content of the platform for action presented by the commission with great delay, i must say that i was disappointed. we expected more substance and more proposals. sustainable development today sounds hollow. commissioner, i am a little ahead of our institutional agenda, but your work programme for 2007 will have to meet this challenge. i ask you to be more firm, more decisive towards the council, more bold. yes, the commission must be bold and courageous. she's not today. it is constantly censuring itself in the face of a paralysed council which knows only good intentions, never followed by facts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs. it must be accompanied by renewable energy. as far as biofuels are concerned, it is known that some member states, notably france and sweden, are working on different systems. where's the harmonization? we're not moving. so where are the concrete proposals? they exist in the mind, but unfortunately, they don't come out. as for the council, i would like to ask it to rationalise the instruments at the disposal of the union: the cardiff process on the integration of environmental aspects into other policies, the gothenburg strategy on sustainable development, the recently revised lisbon strategy. frankly, in the politics of the moment, let us give priority to the visionary politics, the one that thinks about tomorrow and that makes sustainable development an essential key to the future.
mr president, the idea of sustainable development is a good one. it smells like mrs. brundtland's norway, which she invented 40 years ago. it's a concept from the good old days, the club of rome, zero growth. it's a new version of the old idea of reverend malthus. at the banquet of humanity, there's not enough room for all the generations. so we have to limit ourselves, especially as the ice melts, the water rises, the greenhouse effect will suffocate us, the sun will go out and the raw materials will run out because the chinese consume everything. in fact, the only thing that is sustainable is underdevelopment. look at africa! the only thing that is sustainable is poverty, which is a socially transmitted disease from generation to generation. but all development is only temporary. even the stone age ended, not because of the lack of stones, but because of the invention of bronze. and the age of oil will end, not because of the lack of oil, but because of the transition to the age of fusion or hydrogen. in short, the scourge of sustainable development is the idea that the rich explain to the poor that to save humanity, they must deprive themselves of the present.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, we all know that this is no longer the time to lament the consequences of our inconsistencies. the global ecological crisis is hitting us hard and i will not list the problems that arise in this context. we know well here, perhaps more than anywhere else, the urgency of taking action and making courageous and different political choices. and what do we find, because that's what's important? that the commission and the member states use and abuse the rhetoric of sustainable development to justify, sometimes cynically, unsustainable, unsustainable policies. i will take the example of biodiversity, the thread of our own survival, which you know very well, mr pröll. while we have been fighting a real battle here to get budgets for biodiversity in the financial perspective, while we have announced that the natura 2000 programme will be taken into account by the structural funds, an argument used to not create a new budget line, can you tell us - and here i ask the commission, which is not listening - why biodiversity has not been included among the priorities of the erdf and why biodiversity has not been the subject of any budget allocation. knowing this, i would really like to know who is sabotaging sustainable development in these institutions? and if there is sabotage, how much confidence can we have in the strategy you're presenting?
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. wherever the security and dignity of a citizen of the european union is threatened, we are all threatened. the credibility of our union, its principles and institutions are at stake. the union - and this was also very clearly expressed in the debate this morning - is based on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. this is enshrined in the founding treaties and has been continued in numerous institutional agreements and in numerous legal acts since then. we must therefore see acts of racist and homophobic violence as an immediate challenge and resolutely oppose them. we must not allow people from our own circle of union citizens to feel like outsiders. we must not allow people from other parts of the world to come to us with experiences that are completely contrary to our values. since the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam, the eu has provided itself with the tools to prevent and combat discrimination, including on grounds of ethnic origin, religion and sexual orientation, across the union through the equal treatment directives adopted in 2000. the community action programme against discrimination 2001-2006 was adopted on the basis of these two directives. the european union is thus very clear in its intention not to confine itself to the adoption of legal standards in this field, but to take comprehensive measures to implement an anti-discrimination policy. you know these measures, i do not need to go into them here. i would just like to emphasize in particular the great importance which we all attach in this context to the work of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, whose findings are an important basis for decision-making by those responsible for policy. let me also continue at this point something i said this morning. we believe that these efforts to promote equality, non-discrimination and the fight against racism should also be taken into account by a separate agency for fundamental rights, a separate agency dealing with this issue. the purpose of this agency is to monitor the rules that only we, the european union, have, which have become the acquis communautaire, in the member states, in the institutions and in the bodies. it is not a question of conducting general human rights studies and of presenting ourselves as a competitor to other institutions, and in particular to the council of europe, but of the fact that we as a union need an institution which is concerned with the implementation of these measures which have been decided here. i repeat what i said this morning, namely that i believe that the human rights agency that is being considered is fulfilling this task and that civil society - our citizens - wants and needs this agency. we know that there is a wealth of valuable national initiatives, both public and civil, at the level of the union in the field of combating the manifestations of intolerance. these initiatives, which also seek to educate and bring together different groups, to break down prejudices or, in the case of young people, to prevent them from coming up with educational measures - which i consider particularly important here - deserve our full support. but where we must recognise that positive initiatives, education and awareness-raising measures are not enough to stop violence or its precursors intolerance and incitement , our member states must also use criminal law measures to protect citizens. the european union therefore has criminal law provisions throughout the union which are responsive to the challenges posed by racist and intolerant behaviour. the austrian presidency considers that a european framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia would be an important step towards completing the relevant european instrument and an important signal. work on such a framework decision started in 2001. however, problems remain due to the historical development of the criminal justice systems of the member states. the work is difficult and so far no result has been achieved. the european union must be able to take action to combat racism and xenophobia, and the european union must be able to take action to combat racism and xenophobia. the president of the council, ursula plassnik, myself and other representatives of the austrian presidency have been and are trying to convey this leadership. on 21 march of this year, the 40th international day for the elimination of racial discrimination, minister plassnik stated, among other things: the global fight against racism is far from over. there is no reason for complacency in the eu either. i myself said at an event on this subject on 17 march: 'the contribution of local and regional authorities to the protection of minorities and to measures against discrimination is particularly important.' i also drew attention to the situation of the roma minority, who are unfortunately frequently the target of discrimination and racist violence in the european union. on 5 may, the austrian national day of remembrance against violence and racism, the president of the council commemorated the liberation of the mauthausen concentration camp and the people from over 30 european nations who were sent to mauthausen by the nazis, humiliated, tortured and murdered. this is to show us where intolerance and racism lead, and that this should never happen, and that is what this european union must ensure. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank parliament very warmly - and personally, as i have been dealing with this subject for many years - for putting this important subject on the agenda and to assure you that the council greatly appreciates your commitment in this particular area and will work hand in hand with you.
member of the commission. mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission condemns in the strongest terms all forms of racism and xenophobia and will continue to focus on combating these phenomena, using all the powers that are given to it under the treaty. this task should be given priority more than ever before at all levels, international, european, national and local. the commission deeply regrets that the member states have not yet adopted the proposal for a council framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia which it submitted in 2001. the aim of this proposal is to ensure that all forms of racism, including religiously motivated racism, are punishable by criminal penalties in all member states. the commission again urges the council to adopt the proposal without undermining its effectiveness and seeks to re-launch the debate on the proposal, whose adoption would represent a significant step forward in the fight against racist and xenophobic crimes. the commission hopes that the seminar on combating racism and xenophobia, organised jointly by the austrian presidency and the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia on 20-22 june, will contribute to the resumption of the debate in the council under the finnish presidency. the framework decision is not the only initiative of the commission in the fight against racism and xenophobia. for example, the european commission supports the work of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia by collecting data on the extent and evolution of racism in the european union. the transformation of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia into the agency for fundamental rights will not have an adverse impact on ongoing activities, as long as the fight against racism and xenophobia remains the main objective of the new agency, and i am sure that this fight and this effort will be strengthened. the commission also works to ensure that member states fully and correctly implement the adopted non-discrimination rules and manages a number of programmes and initiatives, such as the 2007 year of equal opportunities, which contribute to the fight against racism and xenophobia. the commission is committed to continuing and strengthening these activities and is determined to deepen its other activities aimed at combating racism and xenophobia. the commission also strongly condemns all forms of homophobia. homophobia is incompatible with the principles on which the european union is founded. in this context, it should be noted that the charter of fundamental rights and freedoms expressly prohibits any discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. the commission would like to refer to its statements in parliament in january 2006. the commission is committed to combating homophobia to the best of its ability. the fight against discrimination is a key element of this fight and the european union has already taken steps in this direction, for example by adopting directive 2078/ec. the commission is also aware that legislative measures must be accompanied by other initiatives aimed at combating discriminatory, harmful, stereotyped and degrading behaviour. the commission also contributes to this through information campaigns and initiatives such as the 2007 european year of equal opportunities. overall, the commission is convinced that the european union, which by its very nature seeks to deepen solidarity between peoples, must set an example in the fight against discrimination and take the lead in combating all forms of racism, xenophobia and homophobia. ladies and gentlemen, i look forward to your discussion.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is founded on a community of indivisible and universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity. our countries have decided to join together in promoting these values. each political group has decided to table a resolution to follow up on the statements we have just heard; i myself wrote one on behalf of the epp-ed. almost daily we see that the fight against intolerance is far from over. i wish i had approached this topic differently. it is distressing to have to publicly remind people that racism is intolerable in our societies. recently, in our countries, there have been many racist, xenophobic, anti-semitic and homophobic attacks, which are intolerable and unacceptable. if we as citizens must remain vigilant, as elected officials we must be firm and strongly condemn such behaviour; to be silent is to accept them. we must also pass laws to protect our fellow citizens - political will is paramount in this area - and countries without anti-racism or anti-discrimination legislation must legislate. i repeat again what i said yesterday in this house and for many months in committee. the council must immediately stop blocking the framework decision against racism and xenophobia, otherwise the great declarations of good intentions are useless. our respective governments must lead by example and move forward in this fight for equality, respect for others and tolerance. as far as the current situation is concerned, we are witnessing the rise of far-right parties in many of our countries, as it is unfortunately necessary to recall today. although i am personally very much involved in this struggle, i understand the reasons why my group refused to sign the joint text: it is locked into ideological positions which have failed. it is not by stigmatising this or that degree of news that these countries will be moved forward on the path of strict respect for the union's values. it is unacceptable to confuse individual attacks in states fighting against racism and homophobia with extreme positions openly taken by some governments. these situations must be differentiated. it's dangerous to make amalgam. we must take this question out of the debate on the calculation of circumstances. the fight against racism, against xenophobia, against homophobia is neither left nor right; we have to be sure. that is why the joint resolution which will be put to the vote tomorrow seems to me to be a balanced compromise. i find it very regrettable - and i will conclude here - that parliament is reluctant to speak with one voice on this subject. this is a missed opportunity, and i know that here in parliament we all share this struggle. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, our duty today is to take a stand, to speak out against this return of hatred, xenophobia and homophobia. all over europe we are witnessing with horror the heinous acts and we are hearing the hate speech and the calls for violence. i repeat, all over europe. it is therefore our duty to say that enough is enough, that we will no longer tolerate such abuses, that these monstrous words are contrary to our values and the very foundations on which we have built our europe. we must put an end to racist, xenophobic and homophobic crimes, whether against a man or a woman because they are black, against a young man because he is jewish, against another young man because he is a maghreb, against a woman because she is transsexual. it is our urgent duty to silence all those who promote this abominable ideology. we all know where that leads: to nothingness and horror. we must also stand firm against the hateful calls by polish leaders against homosexuals. and in that regard, i welcome the tolerance and the joy of living together that the polish people showed at the gay pride in warsaw. i say solemnly: let us rise, for the hour is grave. it is enough to count all the resolutions we have adopted on the subject without much result, since the situation is only getting worse. we must now act. the states must mobilize against the resurgent hatred on their soil. the union must realise the seriousness of the situation and make this fight a priority. we won't be able to say in a while that we didn't know. now is the time for all of us to act together, urgently and without delay. i therefore call on the member states to agree on the framework decision on racism and xenophobia as soon as possible. it's time to mobilize.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to define a common response to the rise in racist, anti-semitic and homophobic violence in our states and its corollary, the increasingly assumed expression of far-right views. it is our duty to carry forward this message of combating discrimination and all hatred based on ethnic origin, race, religion or sexual orientation day after day: a duty of tolerance, a duty of education towards our children, a duty of memory in the light of our history. it would be a demonstration of our unwavering commitment to human rights. the horror is never far away. recent tragic events have shaken and shook our consciences and our peoples. a world war based on hatred of others ravaged our continent not so long ago. europe was born from these bitter ashes, based on the values of peace and tolerance, and we must always remember this. we must be uncompromising and unyielding, even within this chamber. we need strong responses, the strengthening of criminal instruments and the rigorous application of those already in place. it is imperative that work be resumed with a view to adopting the council's framework decision. let us be firm and exemplary in our values. to answer our polish colleagues: you can believe in god and not be homophobic.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the chairman of our committee on transport, mr paolo costa, for his excellent report. the text lays down provisions which will make sure that safety is improved. however, there are two other points i would like to come back to, since many of you have already spoken on the first, namely the question of financing. we are talking about safety here, not air safety. it is therefore not just a question of protecting air travellers, but all european citizens who could be the target of attacks using aircraft, as was the case on 11 september. it does not seem fair to me, as mr jarzembowski has said, to place the cost of these measures on air passengers, especially since this sector is already overtaxed, and new taxes are constantly being created, as was the case recently in some countries with the tax on air tickets. i therefore believe that it would be better to avoid placing too much of the cost of these measures on air transport users. the other point i would like to raise is the obligation for member states to consult and inform the committee before implementing their security measures, which is contained in amendments nos 41 and 42. and while i understand and respect the idea of transparency underlying these amendments, i have questions about the practical applicability of such provisions. if, for example, every time an airport wants to add an additional person for aviation safety, it has to wait for the committee to meet, be informed and consulted, i am not sure that the slowness of such an obligation would be beneficial for aviation safety. it would probably be better to find a balance between the need for transparency and the need for speed.
mr president, commissioner, i am a strong supporter of rail europe, and it is based on three conditions: the openness of the networks, interoperability and financing. with this report, the political centre of gravity is rather at the level of the openness of the networks, that is to say, at the market level, and when this is the case, the road always wins. i believe that the will is to give priority to interoperability, while finding a way to finance it. and today, the main challenge in the deployment of ertms is its financing, the aim being to avoid that this additional equipment will penalise the railway a little more than the road. i would like to congratulate our colleague mr cramer on his report. i am not sure that it is necessary, or even necessary, to say that we preferred this or that corridor. i think, on the contrary, that it should have been said that every time a network is renewed, every time a new line is put into service, it is necessary to equip it with the new standard. i can't imagine a new line not being equipped with the new standard right away. and, of course, a crucial question arises: the question of how to finance migration, that is, how long the old and the new systems will have to coexist. if this key question is not answered, the national airlines may be reluctant to do so. if we do, commissioner, i think we will win, and we need to win, because the thalys, as you said, is seven control and command systems on one locomotive, but it is a locomotive that costs 60% more.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for this debate on mr cramer's excellent report. i shall confine myself to four points. the first is my very great astonishment at mr rack's allusion to change as if we were not always determined to give priority to rail, when rail has a number of advantages that we know about in terms of energy and environmental problems. i refer mr rack to the white paper which will be presented next week, all the rest is speculation. secondly, it is clear that the ertms must be set up with a significant incentive and co-financing from the european union. mr savary stressed the risk of penalising the railway system. that is why we have mentioned the 50% co-financing of the start-up of ertms. we'll see, but i think it's a good motivation. thirdly, it is true that in such a system the specifications can always be improved, but today we can say that the system is working. the rome-naples route in italy has been running without delays and in very good condition since the end of 2005. what can be said is that the current version of the specifications is sufficient to ensure interoperability and therefore to launch the calls for tenders, and even if the ertms system needs to be improved, it can be considered today that the specifications are such that there is no reason to delay the installation of ertms. my fourth point concerns the corridors. it is true that the coordinator chose the corridors to refine the costs and benefits of deploying the system and to try to encourage the different actors to work together. but this does not preclude the consideration of corridors. the commission, in compliance with the financial regulation, will favour the best projects and corridors that are able to deliver quality projects within the appropriate timeframe. that is what i wanted to say when i thanked parliament and the rapporteur once again for this excellent contribution to a policy which is essential if we are to make the railway of tomorrow a european railway and a railway capable of linking up the road. this is really the heart of our work and i welcome the contribution of parliament, which i thank with great conviction.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report by mr seán ó neachtain, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on coastal fishing and the problems faced by coastal fishermen [2004/2264 (ini) ] (a6-0141/2006).
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for the valuable remarks they have made, and i have taken note of the various points raised. i shall try to reply briefly to some of them. first of all, i agree that women should be given and should take every opportunity to establish gender parity. the commission will do its utmost to bring this about by all available means with regard to fisheries, particularly coastal fisheries, where women are more prominent than in the other fisheries sectors. on three specific points that have been made, the granting or otherwise of tie-up aid is a national matter and the reporting and control are aimed more at larger vessels than at smaller ones. smaller vessels are in many instances either exempt, or have less stringent requirements to comply with. with regard to the specificities of inshore fisheries, i need to underline again that up to a distance of 12 nautical miles these are largely subject to member state jurisdiction. the eu is not really involved in the control of fisheries within the 12-nautical-mile limit, other than in exceptional cases. i also agree that the specificity of different coastal areas has to be taken into account. we are actually doing that in the mediterranean proposal, and i hope that later this year i will go back to council to try and have the mediterranean proposal adopted. as i said in my opening remarks, there is quite extensive provision for the promotion of small coastal fisheries in the european fisheries fund. i would also like to say that, after a long and difficult balancing act, we have finally hammered out a compromise deal allowing coreper to agree on the european fisheries fund, and it will now feature as an ‘a item’ at this monday’s agricultural and fisheries council. to outline how the european fisheries fund seeks to attain this assistance to small coastal fisheries, first of all there is a reduction of the private contribution to modernisation of vessels for owners of smaller ships to 20%. the european fisheries fund gives them more favourable treatment and conditions for engine replacement for vessels of up to 12 metres, in which case engines can be changed without reduction of capacity on a one-to-one basis. member states are urged to give safety tonnage, preferably to smaller vessels. the european fisheries fund also allows for young fishers to be offered favourable conditions for training and the purchase of a first second-hand vessel. the fund can also be used for projects aimed at bringing about gender equality. it provides for the promotion of processing and marketing, which could be beneficial to coastal communities and fishers. the commission will carefully examine the results of the study it commissioned earlier this year when they are available, and will decide, on the basis of the findings, what measures can be proposed next year and whether there is scope for a community initiative on coastal fisheries. mr ó neachtain’s report will also be taken into account. however, my view is that we should not over-regulate in such a sector; we should help mainly by providing assistance for coastal fishers to overcome the handicaps that they face in exercising their profession.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the commission statement - measures for the implementation (level 2) of the mifid 2004/39/ec directive.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, you will tell mr mccreevy that here in the european parliament tonight we have, for the first time, implemented the whole lamfalussy procedure. the european parliament has made a contribution which i think everyone will appreciate for its quality and professionalism, and also for having defended, at level 2, the balance between the opening up of markets and the principle of transparency which we had defined for level 1. what we have done here in the european parliament highlights the contribution of parliament to the proper functioning of the so-called lamfalussy procedure and our reasons for hoping that the agreement on comitology will guarantee parliament's rights. we also welcome the fact that the commission has taken up many of our proposals which seek to strike a balance between transparency and consumer rights. finally, let me also draw your attention to what our resolution contains on the role, powers and capacity of intervention of the market regulator, the coordinator of national regulators, cervm. the member states must take their responsibilities and provide this body with the means to ensure the proper application of this directive, which is essential for the functioning of the financing of our economy. commissioner, when we started this whole venture, some members of the economic and monetary affairs committee had argued that, in addition to the market itself, we should deal with what was happening downstream of this market, what is called the post-market, the delivery regulation. you said yourself, this aftermarket is too expensive nowadays. i am therefore not a fanatic of the market, but i think that what is applied elsewhere should also apply here, namely decoupling, which should be a good way of reducing costs. i hope that the commissioner will not intervene too late or too timidly in this area, as he has indicated to some market players.
mr radwan, i would point out that it is not the bureau but the conference of presidents that sets our agenda.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank parliament for the very valuable contribution it has made to the whole process. i consider that this is a perfect example of how well all three institutions can work together to the benefit of the european financial markets. europe should be proud today to give itself a regulatory framework for financial markets which will put it at the forefront of the world’s financial centres and improve the competitiveness of the european economy as a whole. i congratulate everyone for achieving this result. on two proposed amendments which were not accepted by the commission – amendments 4 and 7, to which the rapporteur made reference – i should like to say that with regard to the disclosure of the identification of the client, the commission favours a more flexible approach. practices, as well as assessment of the usefulness of requiring identification, vary in member states. it can be an invaluable tool in the investigation of market abuse. the commission prefers to leave this issue unharmonised at this stage. the commission is not in favour of amendment 7, which relates to deferring the publication of information relating to portfolio trades. our current proposal on portfolio trades is that the block regime will apply with respect to each constituent share. if accepted, the amendment could weaken transparency requirements. by including only one transaction for which delay is permitted in a portfolio trade, a delay for the whole portfolio would be obtained. finally, i am certain that commissioner mccreevy will gladly accept your invitation to discuss this subject further with you at the next part-session in strasbourg.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
i am pleased to inform you that a delegation from the south african parliament has taken its seat in the gallery of official visitors. (applause) mr obed bapela, president of the chamber, is leading the south african delegation. the committee is composed of eight members. this delegation is representative of the various political tendencies in the country. this is the first time since 1998 that we have had the pleasure of welcoming our south african counterparts here in europe. south africa and the european union share the conviction that international problems must be solved through multilateral solutions. they also share common political and social values. both countries are actively working for peace, stability and the fight against poverty on the entire african continent. we now hope to further strengthen the parliamentary dimension of our cooperation. i have been informed, dear friends, that you have held successful meetings in the european parliament. i wish you continued success in your mission and a safe return home.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was not accepted)
i was going to say exactly the same thing to you, ladies and gentlemen, when we were discussing the vote on article 2. contrary to what is written on your voting lists, amendment no 12 is not obsolete. we'll get back to you in due course.
mr president, tunisia is indeed the subject of intense attention by our parliament, but beyond condemnation we can play a conciliatory role. that is the meaning of the oral amendment which i am reading to you, which follows paragraph 3: 'the european parliament calls on all parties concerned with the future of the tunisian league for human rights to resume dialogue with a view to finding a solution acceptable to all.' if, by chance, some of my colleagues refuse to put this amendment to the vote, i would urge my colleagues to abstain on this resolution, because it would be unbalanced.
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was not accepted)
i share your view, mr president, especially as i was the vice-president who was holding the hammer at midnight last night, at the time of this debate. so i'm aware of the importance of this. it is a historic moment indeed: the lamfalussy procedure has been completed for the first time by our parliament.
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was accepted)
mr president, i would like to propose a simple structural change to paragraph 2 to make it more balanced and thus more forceful. we have for the moment a general introductory sentence followed by a list of examples. i propose that the second part of the sixth indent be moved to the introductory sentence so that the call for punishing those responsible applies to all national authorities. and i also propose adding the word 'hateful' to paragraph 2, which would read, i read you the beginning: 'strongly condemns all racist and hateful attacks and urges all national authorities to do everything possible to ensure that those responsible are convicted and to avoid a climate of impunity in these cases', etc.
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was adopted)
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was not accepted)
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was adopted)
are there any objections to adding spain to the list of countries mentioned? (the oral amendment was not accepted)
mr president, i insist on that. we were not against an oral amendment being proposed, but we wanted to vote against that oral amendment. it's different, i think. but let's not. (laughter)
i do not know if my explanations will be as clear as yours, mrs roure, but our rules are very clear. as soon as one member proposes an oral amendment, if 37 other members rise to oppose it, it is not taken into account. it's as simple as that.
i would point out that at yesterday's meeting the conference of presidents decided to authorize the title of this report to be changed to 'coastal fishing and the problems faced by the people dependent on fishing'.
we're done with the votes.
in writing. the union's growth and competitiveness depend to a large extent on its capacity to develop research and innovation. in lisbon in 2000, heads of state and government committed themselves to promoting the europe of knowledge and to dedicating 3% of gni to it by 2010. the report by jerzy buzek, which i voted for on thursday, focuses on the objectives and challenges of the 7th cfp. i would like to mention two chapters in particular, which concern regional development: the regions of knowledge and support for smes. it is necessary to strengthen the research potential of the regions of the union by encouraging regional research clusters involving universities, research centres, enterprises and regional authorities. it also advocated strengthening the innovation capacity of smes, encouraging them to network and facilitating their access to the framework programme. it thus makes research a real tool for regional development, even though it is regrettable that the resources allocated to this great european ambition are being reduced by the reduction in the financial prospects.
in writing. for obvious ethical reasons, human cloning must be banned altogether. there can be no doubt about that. unfortunately, this is what the seventh framework programme and some of the amendments tabled today do, by excluding from community funding only cloning for reproductive purposes and not cloning for therapeutic purposes. this semi-legitimization is dangerous. it is based on the idea that human beings, whatever their future, can be regarded as mere material, and this is unacceptable. the programme also provides for the possibility of financing research on embryonic stem cells. i know, and i do not approve, that some countries in the european union allow it. it is not for us, in a vote on research funding, to take a position on their legislation. on the other hand, countries which prohibit such practices should not be required to fund them through community funds, and this type of research should therefore not benefit from fp7 resources. that is why we voted against these provisions, reserving our approval for the other research programmes mentioned in this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this new pcrd because we substantially improve on the commission's proposal and are more ambitious than the council. with a budget that matches our ambitions, more than €50 billion, three times as much as before, we are enabling our researchers to stay in europe and to attract those from third countries. the 7th fp7 with its four specific sub-programmes will structure the european research area around ten main themes. i also supported the creation of a specific security component, which remains a priority for our citizens. i am also pleased that my amendments on the health side have been widely accepted and adopted. the programme also includes several new features, including joint technology initiatives, which will make it possible to associate companies, especially the smallest ones, with research centres in a specific sector. our ambition is therefore also to boost innovation in europe and thus support our businesses and jobs.
in writing. slovenia fulfils the maastricht criteria which mr prodi himself once described as stupid. it can therefore adopt the single currency, and it has asked for it. it will certainly be the only country in the euro zone to meet these criteria. our abstention on this issue does not mean that we reject the slovenian request. we will not vote against the slovenian request if that is what the state, and above all its people, really want. but we cannot accept the entry of a new country into the least dynamic economic zone in the world, with a monetary policy that kills our already weak growth and an exchange rate policy that is punitive because it does not exist. adopting the euro is not a good idea. as frenchmen, we know that. france did it. she's paying the price.
in writing. preserving the environment is an ecological necessity, but also an economic one. great civilizations, like the maya in central america, disappeared because they destroyed their natural resources. the most destructive system of the 20th century was communism, which not only killed tens of millions of people but also ravaged the environment. the chernobyl-type nuclear power stations and the drying up of the aral sea are just some of his achievements. today, the most polluting country is communist china. in europe, two ideologies reigning in brussels threaten the development of our nations: free trade, which is destroying our industrial fabric and which inspired the lisbon strategy in 2000, and malthusianism, which leads, on the one hand, to the destruction of our vineyards and the set-aside of our most fertile land and, on the other hand, to the fall of our demography. replacing missing children with the call for immigration and relocating our factories is not the answer. the restoration of our frontiers, a great family policy, these are the conditions for the genuine and sustainable development of our nations.
in writing. the european union is founded on a community of indivisible and universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity. the 25 member states have come together to commit themselves to these values and to promote them. the many racist, xenophobic, anti-semitic and homophobic attacks which have recently taken place in europe are therefore unacceptable and intolerable. public condemnation is paramount. for these reasons i have drawn up a resolution on behalf of my political group. i call on the institutions of the european union, the member states and all democratic political parties in europe to condemn all acts of intolerance and incitement to hatred. we must remain vigilant, but we must not confuse the list of individual attacks in states fighting against racism and homophobia with the extreme positions openly taken by some governments. the list of tragic examples in the joint resolution proposed by the greens, the liberals, the pse and the gue is not exhaustive. however, i want to be clear: the fight against all racism is neither right-wing nor left-wing. i therefore voted in favour of the epp-ed resolution and in favour of the joint resolution of the other groups.
in writing. it is wrong to have mixed racism and homophobia in the same text. there are paragraphs in this resolution which i cannot support, such as the one which alleges police violence, and i reiterate my opposition to any adoption by homosexuals. but how can anyone oppose a text which firmly condemns the facts of racism in europe? let us not forget our values, let us not forget why we made europe. i am particularly concerned about the rise in xenophobia we have seen in recent times.
in writing. the coastal fisheries report is an excellent report that clearly identifies the problems faced by fishermen in coastal fisheries and provides realistic and effective solutions. if we do not want to see fishing disappear, as so many other economic sectors have done before it, it is high time that we took a number of measures, such as strengthening the fishing industry by creating an inter-branch organisation to promote and promote fishery products, from landing to direct sale, giving the future european fisheries fund a special strand on 'coastal fishing' or strengthening controls and sanctions to avoid unfair competition from vessels from third countries which do not carry the same loads as us and do not comply with the same safety standards. paradoxically, fish consumption is increasing in all countries of the european union. this is not the time to let our guard down, especially since coastal fishing is the most ecologically friendly, the least energy-consuming and the most job-creating of all fisheries. it must be given priority aid and support to restore its economic balance and safeguard employment at sea.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, in six months perhaps, in a year certainly, we will have a new organization of the wine market. i therefore want to examine our subject in the light of the global developments which have taken place in recent years and which will take place in the years to come. first of all, i would like to emphasize - i was going to say almost in opposition to the previous speaker - that the real decision-maker in wine is the consumer. we don't have to drink wine, we don't have to choose a particular category of wine. the number one decision maker is the consumer. and what has the consumer done in the last few years? on the one hand, we are seeing a decline in the consumption of table wines and an increase in the consumption of quality wines. we are also seeing a very strong growth in the number of consumers, and if you have read the news recently about china's decisions and intentions, you will know that in the next ten years, our planet will have millions of new consumers. in addition, we have seen the emergence of new types of taste, which also correspond to consumer demands, at the global level, and particularly with the new vineyards of the new world. all this at the same time, in just 20 years, when in france we have seen consumers cut their wine consumption in half. we can therefore see that the changes in wine consumption have been both numerous and profound. europe must be well positioned in this global market. i believe that we must make sure, and i think we are unanimous on this point, that the very high quality of our great wines from spain, italy and france - i myself come from champagne - very high quality, internationally recognized, is preserved, both in terms of quality and in terms of their brand image throughout the world. but at the same time, our european wine production must adapt to the demands of consumers all over the world. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the changing tastes of our consumers, the disappearance of certain consumers and the emergence of new layers of consumers, it seems natural to me to have the possibility of using these oak chips in our european wine production, provided, however, that this possibility is obviously not an obligation, that this is done within the framework of our various regulations and, finally, that each member state can have the necessary restrictive conditions. finally, let us not forget that on our continent, in our 25 states, several million jobs, perhaps five million, depend on wine production, and that its turnover is 17 billion euros, almost the same as that of wheat, and much higher than that of sugar, which is four times less important. for all these reasons, let us adapt to the demands of our consumers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like a number of my colleagues, i signed this oral question on the use of wood chips as an oenological practice for european wines. i have signed it because i wonder and want guarantees to be given that the quality wines we produce in europe will remain and be recognised as quality wines. that this practice is recognized and authorized does not shock me. the wine sector has been waiting for this recognition as it will allow some of them to meet the expectations of international consumers. in addition, there will be no compulsory generalization of this practice. member states remain free to impose restrictive legislation on quality wines produced in specified regions. nevertheless, i believe that guarantees are needed regarding the information on wines that have been subject to this practice, but also guarantees of quality. i would like to stress that the recognition of this practice, imported from territories outside the european union, must not legitimize other practices which do not seem to offer the necessary guarantees of quality, both in terms of health and identity. wine is a product of its own, which conveys an identity and a way of life. we should not be too quick to get caught up in the practice of patchwork wines. finally, let me take this opportunity to emphasize the need for the next revision of the cmo, which must offer european viticulture a real solution for the future. european wine growers must take advantage of the global growth of the wine market. this must be done by redistributing the financial support from the cmu. the decoupling of aid may be the solution to make the players in the sector responsible, the interest being that all production finds outlets on consumer markets. the distillation conditions - alcohol for oral use and crisis distillation - must be revised in accordance with a system based on a degressive guide price during the marketing year. the use of products from the vine for the enrichment of wines should also be encouraged, and must should be used in preference to sugar. if european wines are to maintain their position as world leaders, the european union must, with the new cmo, build a policy of promotion and marketing, research and development and training. it must also set up an economic observatory. there is no doubt that the restructuring, planting and grubbing-up schemes must be reformed to meet the needs of the market in the medium and long term, but it is also necessary to preserve the vineyard areas, in other words, to preserve the production potential of the european union. how can we imagine that european vineyards could disappear from our landscape, our history, our landscape and cultural heritage shaped over so many years by the vine growers on land exclusively intended for the cultivation of grapes? what would become of these lands and those who live there, those who, a hundred times, have given their work to their craft, for the great pleasure of consumers, i would even say gourmets.
mr president, i am speaking on behalf of mr daul. as a wine-grower myself, i may not necessarily agree with everything he has written, but often in politics we say things we do not always mean. his speech is written in french, but fortunately we have good interpreters here. monsieur le président, le secteur viticole constitue pour l'union européenne une source très importante d'emplois et de revenus qui proviennent, en grande partie, des petites et moyennes exploitations viticoles familiales, lesquelles jouent, dès lors, un rôle fondamental dans le développement des zones rurales. dans le secteur vitivinicole européen, nous constatons de même une situation de crise affectant plusieurs régions européennes comme conséquence de la diminution progressive de la demande. la tâche de l'autorité européenne, pour ce qui est de la politique vitivinicole, devrait se fonder sur la nécessité d'améliorer et de promouvoir la qualité agroalimentaire de la production traditionnelle, ainsi que sur la nécessité de la protéger face à la concurrence accrue des pays tiers. très souvent, une mauvaise politique d'étiquetage est la cause principale de la perte de marchés pour les producteurs traditionnels. afin d'éviter une concurrence déloyale sur le marché vitivinicole, et ses conséquences catastrophiques pour nos producteurs, il est indispensable de protéger les consommateurs grâce à une réglementation sur l'étiquetage fondée sur la transparence de l'information concernant les caractéristiques des produits, les techniques utilisées, l'originalité et les méthodes de maturation du vin. le consommateur moyen, c'est-à-dire l'homme de la rue, conçoit la production du vin comme un processus de maturation en fûts de chêne. c'est pourquoi il faut empêcher le risque de confusion et de tromperie chez le consommateur quant à la qualité et à la méthode de maturation du vin. pour cela, il faut assurer une information appropriée garantissant la liberté de choix du consommateur. la mention obligatoire sur l'étiquetage de l'utilisation de copeaux de bois de chêne dans le processus de maturation du vin est donc indispensable. le moment est peut-être venu à présent de prendre un verre de vin rouge, de préférence un saint-émilion.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like my report on the framework decision on data protection to be referred to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i would remind you that at the last plenary session we asked for a clear position and commitment from the council on the amendments proposed by the european parliament. we have still not received a reply from the council. i know that the finnish presidency intends to work very seriously with us on this subject. that is why we need an additional period and why we are asking for the report to be referred back to committee and for the vote scheduled for tomorrow to be postponed until the september partsession.
mr president, three weeks ago the trial of the palestinian doctor and the bulgarian nurses in libya was reopened. the procedure chosen is very complicated and will make it difficult for international organizations to help defend the rights of these people who have been wrongfully imprisoned. the procedure involves only one hearing per week. you can see how hard it's going to be for the defense to organize. moreover, it is common knowledge that the facts of the charges against them are materially implausible and that these citizens have been detained and tortured for the past seven years. so, can we together tell libya that our only concern, now and in the future, is to help the young libyans who have been infected with aids. but we do not want it to take citizens of europe or the world hostage. we must tell the authorities, in the name of human rights, in the name of respect for libya: "let them go!" (applause from the left)
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mrs wallis on the work she has done on this interim report and on the clarity of her proposals, and i would also like to say how much i approve of the method she has proposed to us. i also agree with her on the points which deserve to be considered in the weeks and months ahead. the task of the committee of inquiry is not an easy one. it is first of all for the commission to investigate the causes of the situation of the equitable life insured persons. in this respect, the motion for a resolution submitted to parliament must be approved in its demands and requirements. the stakes are high and the limits of the exercise must be all the clearer. as the previous speaker said, we must not forget that this is a parliamentary committee of inquiry. it is not a judicial body capable of rendering decisions on sanctions or compensation. at most, the information gathered may be useful in defending the interests of persons who are alleged to have been harmed, by providing them with evidence in the proceedings they may initiate. on the other hand, the results of the investigations may make a decisive contribution to the development of european regulation. they will, where appropriate, reveal shortcomings in the rules or shortcomings in the way they are applied. there will undoubtedly be more general lessons to be learned by parliament itself, the member states and the commission in the act of regulating and monitoring the decisions that are taken. the work started must therefore be continued with precision, determination and serenity, and without ambiguity about the expected consequences, so as not to create new illusions for the people who have been harmed.
author. mr president, commissioner, the economic and monetary affairs committee of the european parliament has considered it necessary at this stage to put an oral question on the state of play of the discussions on mergers and acquisitions in the european stock exchanges. i have said european stock exchanges, because for so many years we have been working in the committee on economic and monetary affairs of this parliament on the construction, consolidation and integration of a european financial market, and i think the question that is being asked today is whether or not to set up european stock exchanges. we cannot, as legislators, look at all the segments of the financial market and consider that this, perhaps the most structural, issue is a matter of the strategy of the market players alone. the issue is much more than that: it is a matter of public interest which the legislator must address and to which the commission, as the holder of the legislative initiative, cannot remain indifferent. the situation of the stock exchanges today reminds me of the history of the euro, and i want to recall here what everyone should bear in mind: without the intervention of the political sphere, that is to say with market forces alone, the euro would not exist today, or it would be very different from what it is today: a currency that inspires confidence, shared by so many member states and which so many member states aspire to adopt. what we need at the stock exchange level is a solution designed in the same spirit as the euro: that is, a solution that goes beyond the mere forces and logic of the market. in this respect, commissioner, you who have the initiative to legislate have enormous responsibilities. you share them with mrs kroes, who has her own responsibilities in the field of competition. but the concern today of observers and many members is that the commission, despite its power of initiative, is still playing the role of arbiter of the interests involved, analysing market situations and assessing the chances of getting a text through to the council or not, instead of trying to take the initiative to have a european vision. in this respect, i think we should follow the negotiations on the restructuring of stock exchanges very closely, because there is one point, commissioner, and you know it as well as i do, which largely determines the state of these negotiations: it is not what happens on the securities market, but what happens on the post-market - a question which has been before the commission for years. there were a number of us in parliament who thought that we should deal with post-market issues at the same time as we were talking about the market. some have wanted to separate the two because it suited their strategy for the place. they now have the text on the market and think that competition should rule the post-market. but some of the issues raised cannot be resolved by market forces alone, because the market cannot take account of the interests of all. the last time parliament spoke on this subject, it indicated that it was waiting for an impact study to decide whether or not a legislative initiative was necessary. this impact study is in your hands, commissioner, and you have not yet given it to us. the wildest rumor is that you might have tampered with the text of this impact study before we knew it. i think that this debate, commissioner, should be an opportunity for you to shed light on all these points. my colleagues will be discussing other subjects. however, there are two points to which i would like to draw your attention again in conclusion. first, the unforeseen consequences at european level of the following decisions: secondly, the withdrawal of the so-called "zin-zins", the institutional investors - the big banks and the big insurance companies - who were the first to make their profits, leaving the door open to the so-called hedge funds as the main players on the european stock exchanges. then i will turn to the issues of supervision and corporate governance. we can see that a merger between the new york stock exchange and euronext could be detrimental to european governance.
mr president, i am surprised at the commissioner's answer. he was asked very specific questions. we are not asking it to intervene in the reality of the markets, we are asking it to play its part in the legislative initiative! so, the fact that we don't decide has an impact on the markets. the absence of decisions on decoupling or the application of competition rules in a given market has an impact on the definition of the framework. in addition, we asked you specific questions about impact assessment. when will parliament have this impact assessment before it has been completely rewritten by your services, commissioner?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs wortmann-koll, for her work, on my own behalf and on behalf of my colleague, mr gilles savary, who was unable to be present this evening to take part in the debate and who asked me to convey his apologies to you. it is a balanced report which, although it does not take up all the positions expressed by my group, is acceptable because it stresses the essential points. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. it also recalled that exchanges of information are important and can have a positive impact on the stability and efficiency of these sectors. it provides useful details and, finally, gives special attention to small operators. as a member of the transport committee of this parliament, i will nevertheless express some regret, emphasizing one particular point. with my colleagues savary and sifunakis i tabled an amendment on the legal basis of the text on which parliament is due to vote tomorrow morning. this amendment was rejected by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. it could therefore not be put to the vote in plenary. i'm sorry to hear that. regulation (eec) no 4056/86, which this regulation proposes to repeal, was adopted on a dual legal basis: articles 84 (transport policy) and 87 (competition) of the treaty, now articles 80 and 83. the proposal for repeal retains only article 83 (competition). it's a political choice with serious consequences. it determines the procedure to be followed and limits the prerogatives of the parliament, since the mere legal basis for competition implies a consultation procedure. the legal basis for transport would have led to a codecision procedure. in my opinion, that would have been preferable. i am not one of those who see competition as the panacea and call for its blind and indiscriminate application to all sectors of the economy, without regard to their specific characteristics or even to the state in which they are. unfortunately, this is the somewhat dogmatic view which the commission's dg competition has sometimes given us the impression of defending against everything, and especially against the opinion of other commission departments. although it is a consultative document, i hope that this report will in any case enable the commission to better understand the concerns of operators who are not opposed to the idea of reform, but who would like to have some guarantees and guidance as to the changes they will have to face. these concerns are legitimate, especially since this sector is of fundamental importance for the future and development of europe.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur of the parliament. the commissioner is in a rather paradoxical situation in this area. since may 2003, you have had an action plan which would put you in a position to influence this discussion which is taking place in all the member states. but in reality the commission's production rate is such that, in the meantime, each member state is preparing for the european negotiation. but rather than initiating a european process on topics that are new, you are giving member states time to adopt their own proposals, which then makes the development of european governance more complicated. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i am a little surprised at the reaction of my colleague mr lehne to the amendments which have been tabled, but he does not listen to me, so i will have to go and tell him afterwards, when he says that adopting this or that amendment tabled by the socialist group would dilute the report a little more. i believe that the addition of some useful reference to corporate governance to the 47 paragraphs in the draft resolution would be worth reconsidering. as regards the double voting right, i think that the balance we had reached at the time of the takeover bid directive was satisfactory. i do not propose, as the commissioner does, to reopen this debate, especially since the question is not whether this or that national model is reprehensible, but rather how to set up a citizen shareholding which avoids the volatility and statelessness of the shareholder, as it exists today in the largest listed companies. we should promote long-term shareholding, employee shareholding and transparency of executive remuneration. that is where your energy should be directed, commissioner.
the agenda calls for the report by caroline lucas, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on reducing the impact of aviation on climate change [2005/2249(ini) ] (a6-0201/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the report by eija-riita korhola, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application to the institutions and bodies of the ec of the provisions of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation and access to justice in the field of the environment (pe-cons 3614/2006 c6-0156/2006 2003/0242cod) (a6-0230/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
the agenda calls for the report by johannes blokland, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators and repealing directive 91/157/eec (pe-cons 3615/2006 c60154/2006 2003/0282 ((cod)) (a6-0231/2006).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the objectives of this directive, which is one of the elements of european environmental policy. as a member of parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, i advocated a certain degree of flexibility, particularly for batteries which meet safety requirements. the drafting proposed by the conciliation committee not only allows us to maintain ambitious rules and objectives - particularly in terms of collection and recycling - but also allows us to take account of the reality and the efforts of battery producers, particularly for industrial use. the distributor take-back method is the default collection method, but the maintenance of systems already in operation is allowed, subject to a publicly available assessment that they are at least as efficient as the distributor take-back. this guarantee of equivalent efficiency in terms of collection seems to me to be decisive for having a flexible and non-permissive system. on the other hand, appliances must be designed in such a way that used batteries and accumulators can be easily removed and must be accompanied by instructions containing information for consumers. however, for reasons of safety, performance, medical treatment or data integrity, where continuity of power supply is required and a permanent connection between the appliance and the battery is required, these provisions will not apply. again, flexibility is strictly regulated. i am, however, sceptical about the capacity of portable batteries and accumulators or car batteries; and if i understand this consumer information concern, i think that too many variables, such as conditions of use and usage, have an influence on the life of these batteries and accumulators. in conclusion, i believe that the joint text which is being put to the vote provides a balanced response to the demands of the various institutions. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of this text and i thank our rapporteur for the quality of his work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, spain in 1936 is above all a lesson, or rather four lessons, for us europeans. the first lesson is the courage, the self-sacrifice, the extraordinary imagination of a people, the spanish people, on the march towards freedom and democracy. who has forgotten the extraordinary social creations of free catalonia? who has forgotten all that the spanish people have tried to do during this extraordinary period? the second lesson is the barbarity of fascism. as has just been said, guernica is a symbol of this: a symbol of murder, assassination, imprisonment; it is also a symbol of an international project of fascism, for it is obvious that spanish fascism could never have won this struggle without the help of national socialism. by 1936 the european project of domination by fascism was already visible. the third lesson is more difficult to understand because it is the lesson of cowardice: the cowardice of the europeans, the cowardice of the french - even if it was difficult for léon blum - the cowardice of the english..., the cowardice of all those who thought that if the spanish people paid, they would not pay! this attitude, as in munich in 1938, proved to be one of the great mistakes and one of the great lessons we must learn from that period. the belief that we can just sit back and wait for the storm to pass is often misguided, as history has shown. this is a great lesson that for many europeans was very difficult to accept for a very long time. pacifism can be a nightmare. sometimes it's a symbol of courage! knowing which one to choose is always very difficult. but if we are to speak of cowardice, we must also emphasize courage: that of pierre cot, for example, who was leon blum's minister and who, as a minister, smuggled arms into spain. it should be remembered that pierre cot, who acted like a hero in this difficult period, is the father of one of our colleagues, jean-pierre cot. i thank the latter for reminding me of these facts. the fourth lesson is the terrible intolerance of communist totalitarianism. because we must not forget that there are two great images in this spanish war. the first image is of the international brigades who wanted to save the spanish people. but at the same time there was the image of the intolerance of the communist brigades who murdered trotskyite members of the poum, who murdered anarchists, because they did not respond to their orientations. that too is a lesson from the spanish war! this lesson that liberation is not about being right against everyone, it's also about accepting diversity and democracy. these four lessons, ladies and gentlemen, must be fully understood by the european union. these lessons must be learned when the barbarism in bosnia is unleashed. these lessons must be learned when a duty of solidarity is to be exercised towards oppressed peoples. if these lessons are learned well, then, i believe, the future can be a little brighter.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, our parliament is playing its part in organizing this political event on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the outbreak of franco's war in spain. in more than one respect, the crushing of the young republic concerns the whole of europe. first, the coup d'étatists of 1936 could only defeat the popular front with the decisive support of fascist italy and nazi germany. it was also in spain that the latter experimented with its future blitzkrieg against france. and guernica was the first example in all of history of the slaughter of civilian populations by massive aerial bombardment, but it would become a terrifying model throughout the second world war. europe is also concerned about the dark years of 1936-1939 for another reason: the lynching of republicans by neighbouring democracies. the non-intervention of 1936 prepared munich for 1938, which led to disaster on a continental scale from 1939; and what about the complacent indifference of european and western leaders in general towards the franco regime after the war, when its leader had joined the camp of good against the empire of evil. finally, there is a final reason for the european character of the spanish tragedy: it is the unparalleled international solidarity which it aroused among the workers and the people, as well as among the most eminent european intellectuals, and of which the international brigades, with their 40 000 volunteers from some 50 countries, are a striking illustration. conversely, many spanish republicans were found in the french resistance. some of them took part in the paris uprising in august 1944, under the leadership of my late comrade henri rol-tanguy. others took part in the liberation of strasbourg in november of that year, in the army of general leclerc. the european conscience would certainly not be the same without the untold suffering of the victims of francoism, the fearless courage of the spanish resistance fighters and the spirit of solidarity with the young republic. may our action today pay tribute to each and every one of them! (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i can testify to the strength and richness of the exchanges which have taken place over the last few months, over the last two years, and which have led to the texts which i think and hope, like my colleagues, that the european parliament, with its very large majority, will adopt in a moment. i would like to stress that throughout this debate my group has paid the utmost attention to the fact that these texts must be effective. the various interventions which have just been made have highlighted the various areas on which this efficiency must be directed. as mrs krehl has just said, the structural funds are a sign of solidarity with the regions in the most difficulty, so that they can reach the average. it is also clear - as ireland, spain, portugal and other countries have shown - that the development of the regions benefiting from the structural funds contributes, through the investments they are able to make, to the development of the european union as a whole. today, madam commissioner, mr minister, we are going to discuss the second phase. after the theoretical phase of drawing up the structural funds, we are now entering the preparatory phase. let me list three conditions necessary for the success of this preparatory phase: at the pedagogical level, at the carrot level - if i may say so - and at the staff level. on the educational level, commissioner, i know that you and your colleagues have already undertaken a number of information conferences. we really need to develop this communication action and the document you have just published goes in that direction. good practice must also be widely disseminated. the member states, regions and the various actors preparing the projects really need to have a good knowledge of the different practices in order to be able to prepare their projects properly. second, we must know how to handle the various carrots at our disposal. you know - and rightly so - that there are possibilities for recourse to the technical assistance funds in the structural funds. we have seen in the past that some of these funds were not used or were misused. by the end of this year, and in 2007, the technical assistance funds should be used to prepare good projects. thirdly, as we say in france, "the fear of the gendarme is the beginning of wisdom". it will be necessary to remind the various member states, the various project promoters, the regions, etc., that if they do not comply with the rules laid down in the regulations, they will not be able to benefit from the structural funds. i am of course sorry, as my colleagues have said, that some member states have recently refused to recycle funds which cannot be used within the time limits. finally, as president of the intergroup, i cannot forget that the european union has finally recognised the need for the implementation of these structural funds at regional and city level. this is where, within the framework of the lisbon arrangements, we can be sure of greater success in the years ahead. madam commissioner, commissioner, minister, rest assured that we, together with our colleagues in parliament, will support the success of the structural funds, but without losing our vigilance.
mr president, in the words of the president of our assembly, we are in a prosaic debate, but it is the prosaic that counts, since we are talking about more than 35% of the union's budget! and i think that's a subject that would have deserved to be the focus of our entire morning. moreover, such an arrangement would have saved some of our colleagues who had a minute to spare from facing an impossible task. i have two minutes to myself, and i thank those who have given me two minutes. we know that regional policy is vital for the new member states. it is also important for others, but now it is the implementation that matters, as our rapporteur-general, mr hadzidakis, and the commissioner have said. this implementation must of course be carried out but not necessarily uniformly: if the obstacles to development are variable, so are the regional priorities. we all support the lisbon strategy, but the means of making it a success - which it is not yet - cannot be uniform across the territory. this applies to all member states, not just the newest. accessibility remains a prerequisite for the competitiveness of peripheral or landlocked regions and, therefore, for the possibility of making them adhere to the general objectives of the union. i would therefore call for a strict application of the budgetary discipline, which would risk further exacerbating interregional or intra-regional disparities. it is essential that regional policy is visible and welcomed by our citizens, so that they do not feel further disappointed when asked about the future of the union. they simply need to feel that they are part of the process of regional development. we have a lot of work to do in this area.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too welcome the presentation of the package of almost eur 308 billion, which alone represents more than a quarter of the total budget of the union. although some in this house regret the council's rejection of the performance reserve, which would have increased the economic leverage effect, we can consider this morning that the reports submitted to the plenary are satisfactory, in that they allow us to move forward to be operational in january 2007. it is now up to us to ensure that the use of credits is optimized. it is also our responsibility to promote projects with the greatest added value and, above all, to make them legible, so as to show our fellow citizens what the union is doing for them. finally, since we must speak very briefly, may i remind you that after the long battle over the financial perspective, we must now win the battle over the union's own resources. we are asking for more money because many of us are convinced that the europe we are building is not only the europe of peace or cohesion after enlargement, but also the most relevant space today to combat the effects of globalisation, promoting not only growth but also the employment of our fellow europeans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate the rapporteur and the members on the considerable work they have done to improve the commission's proposal in the spirit of partnership, non-discrimination and, above all, a balance between the regions of the old and the new member states. it is regrettable, however, that the amounts spent on this major policy of the european union do not live up to our ambitions. in addition, while urban policies have been at the heart of many debates, the same has not been true of rural areas, whose future is now linked to the second pillar of the cap, despite the drastic reduction in their appropriations. it will therefore be necessary to ensure that the structural funds are properly linked to the new agricultural fund for rural development on the ground. finally, i regret the council's decision to allocate regional policy appropriations to the lisbon objectives in a massive way, and moreover without any real consultation of parliament on the classification of expenditure. we must be careful to ensure that the operational programmes in our regions are sufficiently flexible to take account of the structural investments still needed and social solidarity. finally, i would like to remind you that this reform must contribute to the objectives of competitiveness, but also and above all to economic, social and territorial cohesion.
the european council of december 2005 laid the foundations for the programming of the structural funds until 2013. the budget allocated to the four french overseas departments is maintained at eur 2.83 billion compared with the period 2000-06. i would like to emphasize that this figure is almost constant, which is explained by the fact that the doms are eligible for the 'convergence objective' and by their status as outermost regions, whereas all the french metropolitan regions, as well as many regions of the union, are unfortunately seeing their aid fall considerably. france, spain and portugal have obtained the creation of a specific allowance to take account of the additional costs linked to the handicaps of the ors. i regret the lack of visibility of this new measure in the general regulation. i ask the european commission to be flexible in the implementation of this aid, the terms of which are laid down in the erdf regulation, since the definition of such additional operating costs is difficult to quantify arithmetically! the dom are good at managing european structural aid, since they consume the funds put at their disposal regularly and efficiently. it is up to them to continue to make good use of it.
in writing. human trafficking affects more than 800 000 people a year. this "trafficking", which is linked to organized crime, is as lucrative as the international arms and drug trade. trafficking in human beings is a modern form of slavery, which is aimed at sexual and economic exploitation and violates basic human rights. the fight against this scourge is difficult and costly because the networks are often international and traffickers take advantage of the disparity of national laws and the shortcomings of the coordination system. i voted in favour of the council's proposal for the conclusion of two additional protocols to the united nations convention against transnational organized crime because they strengthen coordination and harmonization of procedures. however, while progress has been made in preventing and prosecuting traffickers, there is still a need to strengthen the protection of victims. victim status and related rights must be better recognised and enforced; legal, material and psychological assistance must be offered systematically, as must the granting of a temporary residence permit or repatriation assistance. special protection must be given to victims who have had the courage to denounce their traffickers, because too often they live in perpetual fear of reprisals.
in writing. i voted in favour of the hatzidakis recommendation on general provisions for the structural funds, pleased to see that the new generation of programmes will be able to start at the beginning of 2007, which is essential for the continuity of actions in the member states. i regret, however, that following the agreement on the financial perspective, the amounts allocated to structural policy for 2007-13 are below the initial requests of parliament and the european commission. on the regulations more specifically, parliament can be pleased to see that many of its requirements have been taken up by the council, in particular better consideration of disabled people and sustainable development. the new regulations will make it possible to pursue the european union's cohesion policy, which aims at the development of the poorest regions and the competitiveness of the union as a whole.
in writing. while i regret that the european parliament approved the next financial perspective for 2007-2013 on 17 may, it is now necessary to deal with the resulting meagre appropriations in order to define the role and weight of the structural funds for the coming years. in this context, i welcome the readability of the new architecture of european regional policy, which is focused in particular on three new objectives, which are more coherent and easier to identify. i also welcome the fact that the significant reductions in the level of funds now available to the eu do not have a catastrophic impact on the outermost regions, whose specific handicaps and developmental backwardness make the assistance provided by the community's solidarity instruments crucial. the ors will thus remain eligible under the convergence, competitiveness and territorial cooperation objective (former objective 1). the additional specific allowance of eur 35 per inhabitant will also help to meet some of their needs. finally, the european territorial cooperation objective will enable the ors to continue the work already carried out to develop synergies with the neighbouring states of the indian ocean and the caribbean. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the hatzidakis report.
in writing. the increase in the structural funds, which between 2007 and 2013 will represent 35.7% of the eu budget, or €307.9 billion, is a fraud for france for three reasons. while more than 16% of brussels' budget revenue comes from french taxpayers, the share of european regional expenditure allocated to france has been steadily declining, from 10% in 1994 to less than 8% today. for example, for the last six years the french cantons of hainaut, which are affected by massive unemployment, have no longer been eligible for the structural funds under objective 1. on the other hand, the increase in the regional budget is at the expense of the common agricultural policy, of which france is still the main beneficiary country. the european regional policy is above all an economic fraud. the structural funds in france are mainly intended for declining industrial regions and the conversion of the rural world, that is to say the victims of the policy of brussels, which bears a heavy responsibility for the ruin of our agriculture and the destruction of whole sections of our industry.
in writing. shipping accounts for about 45% of the european union's external trade in value and about 75% in volume. the application of the general rules of competition law to the international tramp and cabotage sectors does not in fact pose any problems as these activities are already deregulated and operate on the basis of fair competition. only the abolition of the exemption from the competition rules granted in 1986 to maritime conferences was the subject of intense discussions between all the players in the sector. the solutions proposed in my report and in that of mrs wortmann-kool seem to me to be perfectly balanced and respectful of the interests involved. indeed, there is no evidence today that the maritime conference industry needs to be protected from competition in order to provide its services. in addition, in order to preserve legal certainty in the maritime sector, it has become necessary to establish guidelines which should enable operators to adapt to the new regulatory framework and contribute to a smooth transition to a competitive regime. if all the precautions taken by parliament in this matter are respected, there is no doubt that shipping will benefit.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague alain lamassoure on the proposals for a european council decision on the system of the european communities' own resources. in order to continue the construction of a political european union, it is urgent to reform its budgetary framework. the painful agreement on the financial perspective 2007-2013 by the european council in december 2006 and the commission's proposals do not make the union's financing transparent, as they are seen as departing from the principle of budgetary fairness which is the current basis for member states' contributions to the functioning of the union. the debate on own resources and, in the background, the prospect of a federal europe, will probably be one of the most thorny political issues to be dealt with in the future. however, in the immediate future, and in the face of the shortcomings of the current european finances and those of the main net contributing member states, i wonder whether the time has not come to set up a large european investment loan to finance all the major infrastructures (space, motorways, high-speed rail network, communication technologies, ports, airports, etc.) necessary for economic development and social progress.
in writing. beyond the political agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-13, the negotiations which marked the council meetings of 15 and 16 december 2005 confirmed the need for change in the own resources system. at a time when the construction of europe seems to be at a standstill, due in particular to a tendency to fall back on national egoism and a disconnect between the people and the community institutions, the opacity of these negotiations and the desire of each member state to conceive the budgetary question only from the point of view of its own particular interest have highlighted the urgency of having a clear and legible system of own resources, which will remove the union as far as possible from the current national budgetary contingencies. it is essential that the european parliament, as the representative of the peoples, should be involved in this process. the lamassoure report, which is now before us, is part of this process and its conclusions, which reflect many of the concerns expressed above, are in the right direction, that of a europe which is in control of its financial resources and closer to its citizens. so, although i would have liked to have already mentioned the possibility of a european corporate tax as a new own resource of the union, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. to have own resources that are commensurate with the union's aspirations, understandable, and without recourse to contributions from the member states, all of this by 2008, of course, and without waiting for the deadline for the multiannual budget programming: this is the essence of the lamassoure report. it follows from all this that parliament wants a european tax, and quickly. who are we kidding? it is a real democratic hold-up: the rules of the game which have just been established for the next six years are to be changed in just two years! just after the expected changes of government in several member states, especially those whose people have rejected the constitution. now we're trying to create a state empirically, without saying it. for those who say they have the power to raise taxes say they have a state, without a constitution, without legitimacy, but a state nonetheless, with the power to put pressure on the taxpayer, which is in addition to that of the member states. the european union has had resources of its own which are consistent with its powers in trade matters: customs duties. since its inception, it has been bent on destroying them. let her restore them! it will act with good sense by protecting european economies from unfair competition and by increasing its resources.
in writing. to have, for all, from 2007 to 2013, a budget of less than 1000 billion euros, when the budget of the united states, just for one year, is 2500 billion dollars, obviously this is an untenable situation. in the first place, in order to give itself a margin without increasing its budget, the european commission is gradually eliminating the cap and farmers, in order to recover the bulk of the 45 billion annual agricultural budget. hence the implausible position of the european negotiators who, as recently as 30 june 2006, at the wto, had accepted behind the scenes a 50% reduction in our customs duties, thus leaving brazil's food monopoly. but the underlying problem remains. everyone knows that from 2014 onwards, the europe of brussels is condemned to increase its budget and to create a european tax. the own resources of the lamassoure report therefore contain, behind the technical smoke, the political question which has been hanging around since 1951, of a single market with a single currency, the empirical emergence of a political state. what the euro has not done, what the constitution has failed to do, because the people have awakened, is the tax that is called upon to do it from 2014 to 2019. taxpayers are warned.
in writing. yes, aviation is contributing to climate change. while over the past 40 years, aviation fuel efficiency has steadily increased, at the same time, total fuel consumption has increased due to a significant growth in air traffic. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change policy and its implementation in the member states. there is no quick technical solution. it is therefore essential to focus simultaneously on integrating the impacts of aviation into the community's emissions trading system, on research, on improving air traffic management and on energy taxation. but this new element of the fight against climate change must not be done at any cost. the system which will be put in place must not penalise our european airlines on the world market, and any unfair competition with other modes of transport must be avoided. the choices which the commission will make in its legislative proposal in the near future are therefore essential. the various options will have to be evaluated with a magnifying glass. i insist that the commission should propose rational solutions in both economic and environmental terms. you must at all costs avoid creating a perverse system in which the weight of bureaucracy would put our aviation out of business on the international market.
in writing. although the objective of reducing the impact of aviation on climate change, in particular the reduction of co2 emissions, is highly commendable, it seems to me essential that our parliament takes into account the situation of the most remote regions of the union. the abolition of the vat exemption for air transport and the introduction of a tax on kerosene, if they were to be considered, would have disastrous effects on the economy of the most remote regions and on the mobility of their populations. this is particularly the case for island regions, whose territories have no road or rail access to the rest of the union. this is even more the case in the outermost regions, where people move exclusively by air. i thank the members of the european parliament for adopting my amendment calling for community legislation to pay particular attention to the most isolated territories which are heavily dependent on air transport, particularly the islands and outermost regions, where alternatives to air transport are extremely limited or even non-existent.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague eija-riitta korhola on the compromise reached with the european council on the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information, public participation and access to justice in the field of the environment. i am glad that wisdom has prevailed in this difficult matter, whose political adoption has been delayed by the legal complexity. the transparency achieved in the programmes financed by the european investment bank has been a great thing. the role of non-governmental organisations (ngos) has rightly been specified in this framework, while referring to ngos responsible . in the end, this compromise reached by the parliamentary delegation led by my distinguished colleague, mr aléjo vidal-quadras, is satisfactory and well balanced. the adoption at third reading was, in the end, a success for the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would be tempted to repeat what mr harbour said. if he has experienced redundancies and restructuring, i myself have been dismissed three times for economic facts and restructuring in nord pas-de-calais, france. socialists favour a policy which allows businesses to create jobs, to modernise themselves and to promote economic development. but when they talk about economic development, socialists also talk about social accompaniment, to create wealth, but also to redistribute it. europe must show its european social model. that is why we have worked together and voted with more than 80% of the vote for a report on restructuring and employment, in which we say that we must provide support, but also tell europe what we are and what we are doing. we voted by a very large majority to say that if europe provides economic aid and public money, and if at some point we realise that there is 'subsidised tourism', then that money must be repaid. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we don't complain, but we feel that everyone should be respected, especially the employees. restructuring is necessary to maintain the economic competitiveness of our enterprises. but they have serious consequences. in the case of general motors today, as in many restructuring cases, the citizens of europe expect a strong response from the union. mr barroso gave us that answer when he asked the new finnish presidency to embody the europe of results. well, the europe of results begins here in this house with a strong signal to the workers who are in distress today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. two brief remarks: as for the specific case which has now played a major role in the last few posts, azambuja, the accusation against the company that it is making huge profits at the expense of workers and european taxpayers is relatively difficult to sustain, because at general motors one can no longer talk about profit either in europe or elsewhere in the world. if i'm correct, the loss last year was 10 billion dollars, which is no small thing. we must therefore evaluate this case a little differently from the cases that martin schulz had in mind when he spoke about certain forms of modern capitalism that have socially harmful effects, which no reasonable person will deny. secondly, there seems to be agreement in this parliament that structural change is inevitable, and there is also agreement in this parliament that it cannot be accepted as rain or shine, but that something can be done - indeed something must be done - in the case of structural change, because it is about people. the crucial thing that modern economic policy can do today is to shape structural change in such a way that people are not left behind as victims. that is the very purpose of our policy. a number of very interesting proposals have been made here. i would like to take at least one of them and emphasize that i too personally firmly believe that strengthening workers' rights in europe would lead to better structural change.
i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2), five motions for resolutions. i would like to conclude by saying that i am very pleased with the report. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for the report by pilar del castillo vera, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the implementation of the community lisbon programme: more research and innovation investing for growth and jobs: a common approach (2006/2005 (ini)) (a60204/2006).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs del castillo vera, on her work on this very important subject for the future of the union, and on behalf of the committee on culture i would like to draw your attention to three points. the first is research. i would like to point out once again the delays in the implementation of the lisbon strategy by the union in the field of education and training. i had, moreover, emphasized this in my report entitled 'education, the cornerstone of the lisbon process', adopted last october. it is clear that progress is being made too slowly in this area, which should, as the commissioner has stressed, be a priority for the future of the european union. the second point concerns the role of universities in research and the brain drain. i believe that it is more necessary than ever to emphasize the vital role played by universities in the creation and dissemination of knowledge. as such, we strongly recommend that their importance be enhanced by developing synergies between higher education, research, lifelong learning and the productive sector. it is urgent that the european union effectively combat the brain drain and that it put in place all the appropriate measures to attract excellence to its soil. finally, the last point i would like to make is that of job creation. it is also urgent that member states make better use of the european funds allocated to them. i would like to draw attention here to the member states which have rightly placed job creation at the centre of their plans by investing more than 35% of esf appropriations in the modernisation of their education and training systems.
mr president, this report seems to contain some common sense: it speaks of the essential role of industry in a modern economy, whereas for years the myth of a post-industrial society, entirely geared to services, has prevailed. it calls for the specific characteristics of each sector or the particular difficulties of each member state to be taken into account in the wto negotiations, which is a cultural revolution (!) but which will never be implemented by the commission, for whom the european union is a single entity. it expresses confidence in bilateral agreements to solve the market access problems facing your industrialists, particularly in the emerging countries, and in the application of the principle of reciprocity in international trade, in contradiction to the faith, reaffirmed on many occasions here, in multilateralism. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is already in the process of adopting a new directive. yes, but it's just a bunch of words, and nothing has changed! the european parliament's report, like the commission's communication, always proposes the same old, disastrous recipes. the usual policy of competition and liberalisation, particularly of the energy market, the accompanying effects of globalisation which are considered inevitable and ultimately beneficial for shareholders, the modernisation of intellectual property law, the symbol of which is the software patent rejected by users and smes in the sector and the simplification of legislation, such as the reach directive this 1200 page gas plant which endangers the european chemical industry! the usual litany of policies pursued for years, to make it appear that we want a european industrial policy which the treaties do not provide for, and above all to prevent the member states, faced with deindustrialisation and the resulting social disintegration, from taking matters into their own hands.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, we are coming to the end of a long, very long journey for those who have been here since 1999. we have seen the very difficult development of this draft regulation, first with the report by bryan simpson - who is not present in this house, but to whom we must pay tribute - and then with the extremely careful and fine work of ulrich stockmann, who today brings it to a conclusion. i think that parliament, as you said, commissioner, can be proud of having given this draft regulation an honourable social colour. as you said, in the field of aviation safety, the human factor, as is often the case, plays a major role. a problem that might have seemed to be of secondary importance remained to be solved: the human factor is the flight crew, but it is also the cabin crew. we had difficulty in reaching a conclusion because we wanted to conclude this after the second reading and not go to conciliation. that is why, perhaps untimely, 37 members from various political backgrounds - i applaud christine de veyrac - tabled amendments to ensure that subpart o is clearly and explicitly integrated into the scientific evaluation and review work. i believe that these amendments, mediated by ulrich stockmann, finally convinced the council that a compromise was possible and persuaded it to accept it without going any further. consequently, if the compromise amendments as drafted this week are voted on - i think 22, 25 and 19 - there is no longer any reason for us to vote on the amendments tabled by 37 members, in accordance with our rules of procedure. that is my wish, with the feeling that we have done our duty and that we have made decisive progress this week. i thank the commission for its openness in this respect.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ulrich stockmann, for the excellent work he has done in negotiating a more than satisfactory agreement with the council and the commission. we can be pleased with this result in several ways. firstly, this agreement concludes a matter which has been on the table for six years and it is good that we can avoid conciliation and a further delay, even if six years is far too long for an area such as aviation safety where action is essential! secondly, the amendments on which the council and the rapporteurs have agreed take up the main points of the requests we made to the committee on transport. this seems to me to be important, particularly with regard to the non-regression clauses which ensure that this text will not lead to a decline in safety in those states where the standards are higher than the basic standards set out in the regulation. finally, i particularly welcome the provisions dealing with the question of cabin crew. with gilles savary and a number of our colleagues we tabled two amendments relating to the concerns of this profession. i am glad to see that the compromise amendments take account of these remarks and i am convinced that the regulation as amended is a coherent and balanced text and i hope that we will adopt it tomorrow by a large majority. i would like to point out to our german and italian colleagues, outside the minutes, that i have deliberately wanted to be brief so that they can follow the last few minutes of the important event tonight.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, france has caused a wave of indignation when it classified the transport of radioactive waste as a defence secret. it denied elected officials and local people the right to be informed of the passage of convoys containing highly dangerous radioactive materials through their territory. more recently, on 16 may 2006, a member of french civil society was detained for holding an impact study on the epr project's ability to withstand the fall of an airliner, also classified as a defence secret. the committee on industry, research and energy of the european parliament, echoing the french idea that 'information on transfers ... is handled with all due diligence and protected against abuse', is in fact proposing to institutionalize defence secrecy at european level. the european parliament, the world champion in all categories for the promotion and demand of transparency and democratic control on the international stage, will it deny itself and make an exception on the nuclear issue? what a loss of credibility for our parliament if it adopted obscurantism as the rule for highly radioactive waste. we know that landfilling is not the answer to nuclear waste management. that is why we reject the idea of building a european nuclear waste dump in bure, in my region, or anywhere else. in addition, it is not responsible to delegate the management of nuclear waste to third countries, such as ukraine or russia, as is proposed. the idea is ethically and morally wrong when it comes to nuclear waste, which, let us not forget, must be monitored for all eternity. in the meantime, the acceptable solution - and this is the answer i would like to give to my epp colleagues - is to store the waste in the nuclear power stations. it is the only place where they are safe, and it would stop the "tourism" of waste that travels across europe by road or rail. finally, the question is: how long will european citizens have to wait for transparency of information to apply to the nuclear sector?
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you, the president-in-office, have made a speech that leaves me speechless. you have emailed all your words of 'we should, we should, we should' and in itself everything you say is true, but you have not once told us how or why you think you are going to achieve these ends. and you never told us what your rank would be. so let us first take stock of the situation in europe and i will quote a little from what my colleague martin schulz said. we are facing a worrying development in europe today: in slovakia, social democrats are allying themselves with the far right to form a government; in poland, a similar trend is observed. in the netherlands, the centre-right government, in order to stay in power, is allying itself with the populist far right. the trend is the same, and in fact, when you say that 'europe is a unity of values and a capacity for action', what do you think is the relationship between values and action? you don't say anything about it. let me return, as my colleague mr poettering did, to another problem, that of russia and energy. for the moment, europe seems to be on putin's heels, because it is afraid of losing its energy. and when you're afraid of losing your energy, you have no energy at all! that is the reality of the european situation and i have not seen any trace of such a statement in the finnish position. i would remind you of the uproar in finland when a green colleague said that the duma was not democratic. what is commonplace for everyone has caused a scandal in finland! so i say, be careful! in addition, you spoke of illegal immigration. but before we talk about illegal immigration, let's talk about the need to organize legal immigration! as long as we are unable to organise legal immigration, we will have illegal immigration. you mentioned the council of europe when it spoke of the possibilities of enlarging europe. but why did you not mention the council of europe when it spoke about the cia and the situation where a large international intelligence institution can operate in europe without anyone being informed, neither the european union nor the european governments? why don't you talk about the french secret services or germans who illegally went to interrogate people in guantanamo? this is the european reality! these are the questions you must be talking about if we are to save the rule of law in europe! the presidency must, however, take the reality of the european union into account and not simply give an account of the situation as one reads in the newspapers every day. you have not given europe a direction. that's what was missing from your speech!
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, your position, mr president of the council, is not the easiest between an austrian presidency with a respectable record and a german presidency which is already raising very high expectations. that stifling position should have given you more determination to dare. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, you didn't surprise us, but rather disappointed us. your speech lacked soul. we have had a catalogue, a catalogue in which you have taken great care not to forget every aspect of european policy, but that is not what is expected of you. what we want are concrete achievements. i will give you a few examples: you should be concerned about the cost of calling abroad on mobile phones, which is a huge burden on citizens. you should also really support the completion of galileo. what is expected of you is that you will use your influence in the council to develop judicial and police cooperation more voluntarily. you also have another project: the european union's own financing, since it has been unable to establish a budget. the council has been unable to devise a budget commensurate with the ambitions of the european union. it would be a pity if we were to repeat the slogan: 'we are not making any progress, the council is blocking'. but why not share your experience of real forest policy? wood, as a renewable resource, meets criteria of interest to europe in the context of climate change. you talk about energy policy, but what we're asking you to do is be strong. strong against russia, because russia knows only the balance of power. and then, when we talk about the frontiers of europe, listen to the european parliament, which is anxious to take account of the absorption capacity of the european union. finally, and this may be the only positive aspect of my speech, i would like to support your government's expressed desire for greater firmness towards turkey on the cyprus question, because the turkish invasion is the only obstacle to the reunification of the island. you see, there are things that can be done to ensure that your presidency is not a waiting presidency.
the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the situation in palestine.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we demand the release of corporal gilad shalit and we demand the release of the 9,000 palestinian prisoners, including 128 women, 300 teenagers and 900 detainees without trial. the israeli army's offensive in gaza and the unprecedented kidnapping of a third of the palestinian ministers, the president of parliament and many hamas members of parliament have virtually nothing to do with the desire to free this soldier. those plans were ready long before he was captured. the olmert government is actually seizing this opportunity to try to make a decisive step forward in a well-established and now well-known strategy. first, it is a question of overthrowing the palestinian government, even if it means destroying what remains of the palestinian authority of president abbas. then, as always, we will declare that there is no longer a palestinian interlocutor to negotiate with. this will open the way for the unilateral imposition of the borders of israel. the regrouping of the settlements into three large, more easily defendable blocs, the fragmentation of the palestinian territories and the annexation of almost half of the west bank, the jordan valley and east jerusalem, the continuation of the construction of the wall: in a word, an accomplished fact that kills any hope of a palestinian state worthy of the name. finally, the chaos thus generated in palestinian society will justify the sustained use of force in the name of the security imperative. this strategy is not only monstrous towards the palestinian people. it may well be a nightmare for the israeli people themselves. how can we imagine that from such a collapse will emerge, as if by a miracle, docile palestinian leaders and a willing population? those who sow despair will reap violence. the palestinian society may conclude that playing the game of democracy has brought it only further misery. and will the european union, faced with such a challenge, allow the palestinian institutions that it has helped to build over the past 12 years to be destroyed? will it let the palestinian president go through the turmoil, when he has just achieved with the head of the government what no one dared hope for, namely the conclusion of an agreement which de facto recognises israel and paves the way for a government of national unity? or will it have the will and courage, which i have not seen from the council - i must say and regret it - to make its mark by demanding the release of hamas officials, by re-establishing substantial aid and active cooperation with the palestinian authority and government, and by speaking clearly about the obligations incumbent on every state, without exception, under international law and the geneva conventions? i think that it is on this terrain, and right now, that europe will play a large part in the credibility of the euro-mediterranean project and, more generally, in its own credibility as a global player. (applause from the left)
mr president, i am astonished by what i have just heard, and i regret that the confusion between jews and israelis is still being made here. we would not be facing a humanitarian crisis of this magnitude if we had not, in the first place, withdrawn our aid to the palestinian people. the decision of the council of ministers to cut off aid and endanger the palestinian people was a grave mistake. there were other means of pressure. after the suspension of this aid, has the hamas government made any progress towards recognition of the state of israel? has he finally decided to condemn the bombings? this policy of blackmailing the humanitarian crisis not only produces no positive effect but also causes suffering. we have again entered a cycle of violence where the blame, of course, is shared: rockets on israeli settlements, disproportionate retaliation by the israeli army, the kidnapping of soldier shalit who must of course be released, everyone has said so here. many actors have maintained their cooperation with palestine, and i am thinking in particular of the many local authorities in europe that we met in brussels last week. and the quartet, as president brok said, must allow for intervention on the ground. finally, i would like to express my deep regret that the european parliament's resolution, adopted last month, did not refer to the declaration by the palestinian prisoners, because this text is, in my view, the most encouraging signal for the palestinian authority led by mahmoud abbas, which we must support.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, i can confirm that there is a linguistic difficulty. i should also like to say that there were 37 members who tabled amendments nos 17 and 18 in the plenary. these amendments led to an agreement last night at the end of the debate. i would like to inform those who have supported these amendments that the council and the commission have agreed to include cabin crew in the air safety standards, as those colleagues wanted. i therefore say to the members who tabled these amendments with me that if the compromise amendments are adopted, our amendments will no longer have any purpose and we can therefore vote against them. i think this is a very good collective success. i hope my colleagues have understood this.
mr president, unless i am mistaken, the division of votes which has just taken place should have led to the rejection of the motion under rule 153 (3) of our rules of procedure. i think so, but i could be wrong.
mr president, the setting up of our temporary committee has enabled us to establish with certainty that the cia has been successful in abducting people from the territory of the union in order to transport them to countries where they could be interrogated. laws exist to protect citizens, but these practices are not worthy of our democratic societies. we must send a clear message to the us administration that we are ready to cooperate in the fight against terrorism but in compliance with the rule of law. it is unacceptable that the member states of the european union have turned a blind eye to intolerable violations of fundamental rights. we therefore encourage national parliaments to take up this matter, in order to shed light on what has really happened in their own countries. finally, i welcome the continuation of the work of our temporary committee and i warmly congratulate our rapporteur on his precise and hard work.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, we have learned from investigative journalists that the us authorities have allegedly set up a programme to monitor financial transactions processed by the banking company swift, for the purpose of combating the financing of terrorism. these facts have been confirmed by president bush himself, and by the swift corporation itself. data protection is not an obstacle to the work of the police authorities, it guarantees respect for fundamental rights. obviously the european states were not aware of these activities, but the european central bank - and you said it, mr vice-president - would have been aware. the european central bank is a european institution. it must be subject to data protection legislation, and that is why we want the european data protection supervisor to check as soon as possible that the european central bank has complied with the laws. finally, we must ensure that there is no legal vacuum in the legislation on the protection of personal data. although we do not yet have a european text regulating data protection in the context of police activities, existing legislation provides for compliance with national legislation for any exchange of data provided for in the context of public security. and this exchange must be authorized by the states. i would also draw the attention of the council, madam minister, and the commission to amendments nos 26 and 58 in my report on data protection in the third pillar. these are intended to regulate the processing of data when it is collected by private parties in the public interest, and that is the problem, i think.
president of the council. mr president, it is clear that harmful tax competition is a bad thing, but there is still some way to go before the member states move to a single uniform tax system.
president of the council. mr president, perhaps this was more a comment to the council than a question. as i said in my original reply, taxation is an important issue both for the functioning of the internal market and for competition. it is therefore important to look at taxation also at union level.
president of the council. mr president, the course has changed recently, but the council is not planning any measures to force the united states to support the value of its currency. the opinion of the president of the ecofin council, delivered at the spring meeting of the international monetary fund's international economic and financial committee, reiterated the council's position on global imbalances, and i quote from that opinion: 'in the medium term, a large imbalance in the current account cannot be maintained and it is the common responsibility of all the main players to take the necessary corrective measures. international cooperation should pursue macroeconomic and structural policies aimed at sustaining growth and facilitating the appropriate correction of excessive current account deficits and large surpluses. this would avoid an increase in protectionist pressures, sharp exchange rate fluctuations and risks to the financial sector. macroeconomic risks from protectionist measures and unilateral actions are also possible. an open multilateral trading system is a prerequisite for higher and sustained growth. in particular, the growth of saving domestic growth in the united states and asian countries is central to efforts to redress global imbalances". this view was reflected in the april 2006 communiqué of the international economic and financial committee, which was broadly accepted by partners at the global level.
mr president, madam minister, i note that when we talk about the medium term, we are now in the short term. the union's employees, who in the coming months will lose their jobs partly because of our inaction, will not like it. but why do we not give the european central bank a completely different role under the control of the european parliament?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, my colleague richard corbett spoke of a good result. having left a television screen with a score of 1-0 in a totally european spirit, i consider that this is indeed a good result. richard corbett spoke of the plight of the people of yorkshire. far from discouraging him, i would like to convince him that there is still a little work to be done before every member of this house is convinced of the challenge and importance of comitology, and of the results achieved in the negotiations which have just been concluded. on this point, i trust his sense of pedagogy. i would like to thank our negotiators, richard corbett and joseph daul, for the result we have achieved, but also alexandre radwan and all the members of the economic and monetary committee without whom these negotiations would not have been started. i would like to warn the commission on the substance of the matter: you now have an important duty towards parliament, namely to implement the implementing measures within a framework which is now clearly redefined. we are regularly asked about the need to monitor how member states apply or implement the legislation we are discussing here. well, in the same spirit, we will have to check that the commission is doing what is necessary to ensure that the implementing measures are put into effect within a reasonable time. we will also have to revise the european parliament's rules of procedure to adapt our procedures to these new rights which we must be able to exercise fully. everyone will be happy tonight with the outcome of the negotiation. i would now like to return to three questions which i believe remain open. the first is the status of the european parliament's observers in the commission's committees of experts. if we are to exercise this right of review and recall in the field of comitology, we must be able to follow the day-to-day work of the committees responsible for implementation under the same conditions as the council representatives. secondly, as regards the sunset clauses, or couperet clauses, the minimum we obtained in the declaration is the guarantee we needed to accept the agreement. thirdly, and lastly, as a warning to the commission: when the european parliament, in the quasi-legislative field, rejects an implementing measure as proposed by the commission, the commission will not only have the possibility of proposing a new wording, it will have the duty to do so, otherwise level 1 cannot be implemented.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the comments by members here demonstrate how much thought and enthusiasm has gone into this important reform, and quite rightly so. we have injected more transparency and more democracy into the procedures. from now on the european parliament should be in a position to delegate implementing powers in all conscience to the commission without giving up its legitimate rights of scrutiny. according to the new procedure, if parliament were to object to the substance of an implementing measure, the commission would be prevented from adopting it in that form. with these substantially improved control rights we see no need for the legislator to set a time limit for the delegation of implementing powers to the commission. on the contrary, i believe that this package should provide a stable solution for the future. this was, of course, the purpose of the negotiations. let me come finally to some practical issues, because if you endorse the deal tomorrow we will have to continue our good cooperation. this will be done in several ways: firstly, thanks to the commission’s forthcoming alignment proposals; secondly, via the promised upgrade of the comitology register; and thirdly, through the revision of our 2000 bilateral agreement on the procedures for implementing the comitology decisions. i look forward to continuing to work with you on these issues and i thank you for your contributions to the debate.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thousands of immigrants are losing their lives trying to reach our european continent. ceuta, melilla, the canary islands, lampedusa and malta have become dramatic symbols in the management of migration flows, especially from the south of the planet. since monday, nearly a thousand men have tried to land and have landed in the canaries. the european union must not push the problem beyond its borders. african countries cannot solve the problem of migration pressure alone. my dear colleagues, commissioner, i recently led a delegation of european parliamentarians to the canary islands. it is true that the european union offers help and protection at the borders, but there are still men and women who are swarming the beaches. the meeting on migration next week in rabat is a very encouraging first step. finally, representatives of african and european countries will be sitting around a table to find solutions. the co-development policy that europe will put in place tomorrow must become more efficient, smarter and more secure, in order to ensure that the funds allocated will benefit exclusively the people. if we effectively help the people of africa to stay at home by allowing them to live decently, we will avoid counting the bodies on the beaches of italy, malta or spain. in an area without internal borders, such as our schengen area, coordination and information between the different national immigration policies of the 25 is of paramount importance. the first important step towards this goal is to improve the exchange of information between member states. my report concerns the establishment of a mutual information procedure in the fields of asylum and immigration. each member state shall inform the other states and the commission of the national measures which it intends to take. the main points developed are as follows: all member states will have to provide information on the current state of their national legislation. these will therefore constitute an initial database which will be useful to us in order to know the different current policies and to understand the changes to be made in the future. secondly, the political aspect. the new procedure will serve as a permanent link between national administrations. it is important to go further and add a political dimension to this administrative level. that will be the purpose of this new tool. the last point i would like to mention is accessibility to the public. the green group tabled amendments to open the network to the public. i have always been in favour of greater transparency in decisionmaking procedures, but not in this particular case. let me explain: all legislation already adopted at national level is of course made public. however, political discussions on future measures and on current draft laws must remain confidential. otherwise, governments will refuse to submit their current plans and discuss them with us and we will never have this information. in closing the first part of our joint debate, i would like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs with whom i have worked effectively over the past few months. i hope that we will all show, in the vote tomorrow, our willingness to work towards better cooperation between the member states at european level. on the integration of immigrants, i would like to congratulate our colleague, mr lambrinidis, on his work and his willingness - i stress this - to find compromises between all the political groups. integration policy represents a mutual commitment between the host countries and legally resident third-country nationals. this commitment is made up of rights and duties for both parties. we cannot encourage immigration without creating the conditions for a humane reception in terms of work, housing and child rearing. a successful integration policy therefore requires that the applicant obtain a job, which in turn requires knowledge of the language of the host country. immigrants also need to have access to civic education courses, to gender equality programmes, to better understand the values of the host country. the reports presented this evening deal with immigration and integration policies within the european union. the idea of this global discussion is particularly interesting, because it is difficult to separate the two. immigration and the integration of immigrants are topics that rarely leave anyone indifferent. these sensitive issues are at the heart of many questions and debates involving governments, citizens and european elected representatives. my dear colleagues, mr president, commissioner, the management of migration flows will be at european level, because we must all build a safer, more prosperous and fairer europe.
for the greens/efa group mr president, (without microphone) euro-african ministerial conference on migration and development, initiated by morocco, france and spain, following the tragic events in ceuta and melilla. one tragedy after another. according to some reports, three thousand people have died in recent months trying to reach the canary islands. the discussions, however, are not about the duty to protect people, but once again about the control, closure and even militarization of borders. however, as all the reports show, the majority of people are moving to the south, not the north, and the number of asylum applications in europe has halved in the last 15 years. the union and its member states are increasingly placing conditions on development aid. just last week, a senegalese newspaper headlined: "europe closes our borders". this strategy puts people's lives at risk in two ways: those whose only chance of survival is to leave their country, and those who are forced to take increasing risks to enter europe. freedom of movement, particularly the freedom to leave one's own country, is enshrined in international standards. the absurdity of this policy is made clear by the fact that the income sent by migrant workers to their home countries is twice the amount of official development aid. instead of guaranteeing respect for the fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers, including the right of access to asylum procedures, the principle of non-refoulement, or the right to privacy and family life, europe is multiplying strategies to transfer this responsibility to third states. the commission has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the preparation of the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december. the project of creating so-called 'regional protection' zones in countries such as belarus also follows this logic. finally, european states are actively participating in the trivialization of the policy of confining migrants and asylum seekers, going so far as to finance closed centres in third countries, such as libya or mauritania. the european union must urgently review its policy and listen to civil society in sub-saharan africa, north africa and europe. many of these civil society members met in rabat last week and adopted recommendations that deserve consideration.
in all the countries of the union today the same failure is being made to integrate what has everywhere become a 'settlement immigration'. the solution is not, as the report proposes, to create yet another european fund, this time for the integration of third country nationals, or to create additional programmes focusing on the promotion of immigration and diversity in the eu, or to encourage the political participation of immigrants, including by giving them the right to vote in local and municipal elections. nor does it consist in asking the council to use the 'bridge clause' under article 67 (2) of the treaty to give parliament co-decision powers on integration and legal immigration. the member states must refuse to lose even a little more of their powers to defend their identity and secure their borders. the ultra-liberal and pro-immigration philosophy in brussels is leading to disaster, as we see everywhere. the european strategy must be limited to the conclusion of partnership agreements with countries of origin for a return policy, and it must finally be geared towards strengthening its controls at the external borders.
europe would, according to the texts proposed to us, be 'unfriendly to immigrants'. it seems like a dream when we see that france is the champion and this is due to its initiator, the minister of the interior, nicolas sarkozy of a chosen immigration and positive discrimination in favour of visible minorities, i imagine in opposition to the "invisible" indigenous european majority, when we know that a foreigner in an illegal situation in france is housed in reception centers or hotels, is fed, his children are educated and he benefits from free state medical assistance (ame), which is not the case for ethnic french people who, on their own, often have to manage well on their own to accommodate themselves, eat and work. in italy, spain and france, tens and hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants are regularly registered and can thus move around europe with impunity. "sponsors" and "mother-in-laws" of young foreigners whose parents are in an irregular situation are developing in all the bobo cities of france and are opposing their expulsions. europe is inhospitable? on the contrary, it is high time to put an end to all the immigration and integrationist follies of our french and european leaders.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are 175 million migrants in the world and this number has almost tripled in the last 40 years. the phenomenon is not new, but it has taken on a particular dimension in the context of globalisation and, above all, it now evokes human tragedies for us. every day, dozens and dozens of africans are driven by poverty and despair to the northern shores of the mediterranean or to the canary islands, and the only response from the european states is to increase checks and patrols, which push those who are about to leave to take ever greater risks. but this eu migration policy is based on an illusion! the illusion that we can make our borders watertight, which is based on a vision that is primarily defensive and security-oriented and which leads to the shifting of all responsibility to the southern states. even the euro-african conference in rabat on 10 july will certainly be discussing the issue from the point of view of repression and border controls and we will still not hear the voice of africa. this one-sided and selfish view is echoed today in the discourse and policies of "choice immigration" that are all the rage in europe. immigration 'chosen' for the north, but immigration increasingly 'subjected' to the south, and so it is now that a different logic must prevail in europe. that is the spirit of my report. it is in this dynamic that i want to be part of, to propose a new approach, new tools and to make migration a lever for development. first, we must make better use of the tools that already exist, but, above all, we must meet our commitments in terms of development aid, and we know that development leads, in the first phase, to an increase in migration rather than a slowdown. of course, increased aid is not in itself a solution, it is a necessary but not a sufficient condition. secondly, i would like to see a real look at the aeneas programme, to refocus it on the development aspect alone, as in the programme which will succeed it in 2007, but we are far from that! today, this programme is used mainly for actions to protect the northern borders. in 2005, for example, only seven of the 39 projects funded were in the global south. in addition, if we were to set up a single new financial instrument, i believe that a guarantee fund should be created to ensure the sustainability of micro-projects in poor countries. the european union must also act where migrants are, where migration begins. it is easy to target the main areas of immigration - often the poorest regions - and to finance, with targeted budget support, the installation of infrastructure: drinking water, electricity, roads, health centres and schools, in order to keep the poor people there. it is also easy to identify migration centres, we know them: they are states or large cities with modern means of transport and communication, which are both reception areas and departure areas for the main migratory routes, which start from the sahel to the north, for example. this identification means that actions can be developed more than is currently the case to support the population - especially the most vulnerable, such as women and children - and help them to become self-sufficient, to achieve themselves in other ways than through mobility. a programme of information on these areas for migrants could also be set up. i believe that europe must also take advantage of the potential of migrant communities in rich countries to help develop their countries of origin. i believe that this is a promising path which, in the name of solidarity and mutual aid, is intended to transform migrants into agents of development. it's called co-development. in this context, it is necessary to encourage the transfer of funds to the countries of origin, to make them more transparent and less costly, and to study a new financial product which could take the form of a 'development savings plan'. the union, and especially its member states, must put in place innovative policies such as the payment of the wage differential for certain migrants wishing to return to their country of origin, or systems of double chairs for researchers or doctors, in the framework of institutional partnerships between research institutes, universities or hospitals. we must also encourage circular migration, which allows migrants to go back and forth, of course in consultation with the countries of origin and by making the transfer of social benefits more widespread. i believe that such measures would make it possible to replace the current brain drain with a brain circulation. we know very well that for many countries in the south, migration means the departure of the best educated and most enterprising citizens. this is a tragedy for poor countries, since this phenomenon often affects such vital sectors as health and education. in this respect, i welcome the commission's proposals to take account of these issues. but what i want more generally is that the situation be reversed, that a new logic for europe be imposed and defended. the opportunity is there because the un will be addressing the issue of migration and development for the first time in september. i would like to thank the colleagues who supported me on this report.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, mrs carlotti, for this report, which indeed contains many proposals for interesting initiatives, but, as the commissioner has pointed out, there is a lack of coherence between the various policies pursued at european union level. we have had to examine ourselves during this session a number of reports on issues such as asylum, immigration, development, which sometimes go in contradictory directions. it must be admitted that today in our countries the dominant trend is security. there is too much of a tendency to link immigration and security, and the policies that are being pursued are essentially aimed at returning immigrants, especially illegal immigrants, to their countries of origin. it seems that we are interested in immigrants mainly when they want to go home: it is a kind of not recognizing the freedom of those who want to settle and live in a country other than their own. as you know, subsidiarity is also very important in this area, and the member states have their own policies which differ from one country to another. today, in france, the government is pursuing a policy of expelling, and sending back, illegal immigrants; today, in front of the european parliament, there is a sponsorship of schoolchildren who are threatened with expulsion. such a policy has not been pursued in spain or elsewhere, and in other countries there is a question of how to deal with illegal immigration. subsidiarity is therefore far too important in this area. while co-development sounds like an interesting idea, i believe that it cannot replace the very strong public policies of the european union in support of the rule of law and democracy. beyond the difficulties encountered, this is the aim of the action carried out by the union in the democratic republic of the congo, which gives priority to public policies in the fields of health, education and the environment, even though it is regrettable that this has been undermined in recent years by other policies of the union and the member states, particularly in the economic and commercial fields. so we need a coherent and comprehensive approach, so that we can link immigration to sustainable development issues and not just make it a security issue.
mr president, i would also like to congratulate mrs carlotti on her excellent work. as the fictitious rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on women's rights, i was very pleased to see that most of our proposals were incorporated into the final text, including the protection of migrant women against discrimination and violence, and improving their access to health services, education and employment, as well as the need to pay special attention to the children of these migrant women, or the case of women displaced by conflict. i am simply sorry that one of my proposals, which was to enable irregular migrant women to have access to medical care as well as legal and psychological support, was not accepted. these women in irregular situations are a particularly vulnerable group whose fundamental rights must be protected, just as those of persons with legal status. i hope that this point can be addressed in the framework of mrs kratsa's report, which is specifically devoted to the situation of migrant women.
mr president, let me first of all warmly thank our colleague, mrs carlotti, for her excellent work, the guidelines of which i fully support. all too often, in the south, migration means the departure of the best-educated citizens, a real haemorrhage of skills, depriving these countries of income and compromising the provision and quality of essential services, which are essential for their real development. make no mistake, this brain drain is encouraged by the selective admission policies of migrants implemented in the north, under the name of "selected migration" or "selected immigration". immigration by choice to the north is always synonymous with immigration by force to the south, a policy which amounts to denying the south any right to development. in contrast to this logic with such harmful effects, the general philosophy and the concrete measures proposed in this report, such as circular immigration replacing brain drain, the 'circulation' of brains, seem interesting to me. it's the concept of shared immigration, enriching each other. the aim here is to promote co-development, to enshrine it in european texts, without neglecting its necessary financing, and thus to recognize and support the role of migrants in the development of their countries of origin, in a real vocation to transform immigration into a lever for development and mutual aid between peoples. i hope that this indispensable solidarity will dominate the discussions at the next euro-african conference in rabat. we know the history of walls built in the illusion of protecting one another, they have always been meant to be crossed and then destroyed.
in writing. the eu-caribbean partnership for growth, stability and development, based on shared values and with mutual benefits, must be an opportunity for both sides to work together for democracy and human rights, but also to fight poverty and threats to peace and stability. i support the approach envisaged by the european commission, which is to support the countries of this region which are already on the path of regional integration through caricom, carforum or the meuc. the caribbean countries, generally small and economically vulnerable, have undertaken significant efforts at economic diversification, restructuring and reform and must now be able to take advantage, with the help of europe, of the opportunities offered by globalisation while avoiding its pitfalls. i thank the members of the european parliament for adopting my amendment stressing the need to involve the doms in the area (guyana, guadeloupe, martinique) closely in the future political dialogue on cooperation between the union and the caribbean, because of their obvious role as 'europe's bridgehead' in this part of the world.
in writing. should we be happy or worried about the agreement reached between the council, parliament and the commission on the modalities for the exercise of the commission's implementing powers? it is a good thing that this exorbitant power, unheard of in a democracy, has been curbed, if anything at all, which virtually allows officials in brussels to amend legislative acts without the legislator. but there are also many reasons to worry. the first is the recognition, once again, of the fundamental flaw in the european institutional architecture: it is the institution with the least legitimacy - the commission - that has the most power. the second is that the body of european legislation is not simplified. the 'better lawmaking' initiative, which this parliament debated last month for the umpteenth time, a veritable sea serpent of the 'eurocracy', is decidedly nothing but an empty shell. thirdly, this agreement is a partial but real implementation of a provision of the european constitution, which it is becoming tiresome to recall here that has lapsed since two european peoples rejected it massively in a referendum. the best way to restrain the commission is indeed to revise the treaties. to build the europe of the homelands, which can do without this institution in the form it has taken.
in writing. we need to establish a genuine common policy on asylum and immigration. it is essential for the union to establish mechanisms for the exchange of information between member states. if member states are better acquainted with their respective legislation and regularly exchange best practice, they will be better able to identify areas where european legislation is needed and thus reach an agreement acceptable to all. it would be simplistic and wrong to say that this instrument could allow member states to prohibit regularization. regularization is necessary in some national contexts. an exchange of information on these measures will therefore help to understand them better. in addition, a tightening of the fight against legal immigration may have the effect of diverting flows to another member state. such hardening should therefore also be reported.
mr president, mr gargani is right to ask that parliament be consulted on the revision of the immunities protocol. it is also right to ask in its report for a right of appeal by the european parliament to the court of justice in the event of member states failing to respect the immunities of members of parliament, which have been established to defend the rights of parliament and, in particular, to protect members of parliament from prosecution by a hostile executive power through the prosecutor. especially after the real forfeiture - the word is not too strong - committed by the french court of cassation in the case of our former colleague mr marchiani. but, mr president, the legal affairs committee should also respect fundamental law itself, and not examine an application for parliamentary immunity on a manifestly inadequate basis - in this case article 9 - when article 10 applies. it should adopt the same case law in defence of freedom of expression when the fumus persecutionis is manifest, as was the case in my case. finally, and i would have finished with that, parliament's legal services should not, when proceedings are brought before the court of justice, attempt to diminish the scope of the european parliament's resolutions, or even of articles which it has inserted in its own rules of procedure.
in writing. if we needed proof of the delicacy of the pseudo-europeanist political elites, of the mental confusion in which they are operating, of the loss of benchmarks and the inversion of values from which they suffer, we would have it with mr lambridinis' report. what he is proposing is nothing more or less than a generalized, institutionalized extra-european preference, a discrimination against europeans on their own soil, accompanied, financially, by a kind of marshall plan for what he calls 'the 26th state of the union', and politically, by the unilateral granting of rights which can only be those of nationals of one state. i'm not going to sleep. 40 million officially admitted non-european immigrants, that's a beginning of overwhelm. the member states are already spending hundreds of billions of euros each year on so-called integration policies which are obvious failures, costs for their societies and handicaps for their economies. remember the ethnic clashes in the uk. remember the reasons why theo van gogh died. remember the riots in france, those young people shouting their hatred of our institutions, our values, of everything we are. the multicultural societies you want to create are explosive. unemployment, social and housing problems are the lot of millions of europeans. they are the ones we must think of first.
in writing. there are now some 50 million immigrants in europe, mostly from africa or asia, and the number is growing by one to two million each year. the explosion of ethnic violence, the islamization of many of our cities, the questioning of our social security systems which cannot bear to take care of these newcomers are the most serious consequences of this immigration, which is all the more difficult to assimilate because it comes from cultures alien to our civilization. the integration proposed by the rapporteur, far from solving the problems, is making them worse. in france, three weeks of rioting in november 2005 reduced to ashes dozens of buildings built under this policy: party halls, gymnasiums, schools, etc. the other proposals, such as 'encouraging the political participation of immigrants', i.e. giving them the right to vote, as mr sarkozy wants in france, will further dismantle our societies. instead of wasting billions on pseudo-integration, our governments should, on the one hand, implement a genuine policy of cooperation with the countries of emigration based on reciprocity and, on the other hand, launch a great family policy to ensure the sustainability of our nations.
in writing. european immigration policy cannot be limited to fighting illegal immigration. there is an urgent need for a european policy on the integration of third-country nationals. the commission's communication on a common programme for integration is therefore an important step forward. and the creation of a european fund for the integration of third-country nationals is a good example of this. migrants must benefit directly from this fund. it must therefore allow for greater participation of migrants at all levels of educational, cultural and political life. we must encourage the exchange of best practice on the integration policies of the member states in order to pave the way for a genuine european integration policy. i also support the rapporteur's proposal to establish rapid and humane procedures for granting longterm resident status, to promote family reunification and to encourage longterm residents to become naturalised.
in writing. the main fault of mrs carlotti, which is found in all the european parliament's reports on the subject, is to consider that immigration, renamed for the circumstance of "mobility of human beings" is a human right. no, each of us does not have the absolute right to settle indefinitely in any country of our choice, according to our own will. states must be able to decide who may enter their territory, who may remain there and for how long. the philosophical, almost religious, bias of the rapporteur leads him to wrong solutions. there is obviously a link between development and migration. hundreds of thousands of people are being forced to emigrate because of poverty and it is obvious, as the national front has been proposing for years, that development policies must be implemented to enable these people to settle in their own country, because they would find the means to live there in dignity. one of these ways is to organise the return of immigrant populations to their countries of origin, so that they can benefit from the experiences and skills acquired during their stay in the european union. this is the only option which mrs carlotti's report does not consider at all. that is why we shall vote against his report.
in writing. on the eve of the rabat conference, it is urgent to recall that the european union's cooperation with the countries of origin of migrants cannot be limited to helping them to strengthen their borders. we need to engage in dialogue to address the root causes that drive people to risk their lives crossing oceans in search of a better life in europe. we must enable co-development to be targeted as closely as possible to the people in order to reduce poverty and inequality, which are the main causes of migration. the establishment of a european fund for co-development will perpetuate this principle. finally, we must remember that migration must be an opportunity for the countries of origin. we can promote the investment of migrants in their countries in order to maximize their impact on the development of their countries.
in writing. in mr schmidt's report, the european parliament wanted to express its opinion on the need to give fair trade a genuine european policy framework. this was necessary. the pressure currently exerted by the increasing opening of global markets is a serious threat to the economic, ecological and social viability of the various global agricultural models: by forcing them to produce at ever lower prices, it puts farmers at risk by undermining their incomes, and contributes to the deterioration of the working conditions of agricultural workers and the environment. fair trade can and must help provide an alternative to this situation which, by promoting the lesser, undermines the millennium development goals. in this context, the commission must now send a strong political signal in favour of a trading system which provides producers with a remunerative income and helps to remove any temptation to social and environmental dumping. the growing success of fair trade products among european consumers can only encourage such an initiative. so, although i regret that parliament has not wanted to advocate special tariff measures (differentiated approach, gsp+) for fair trade products, i will vote for the schmidt report.
the agenda calls for the continuation of the debate on the oral question by mr enrique barón crespo on the outcome of the wto meetings in geneva at the end of april and future prospects. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
i am told that the commissioner is on his way and i believe that he has just entered the chamber. so i think we will let our friend the commissioner settle in peace while the first speaker speaks on behalf of his group.
member of the commission. mr president, thank you for what has been a very constructive and helpful debate. i would like to thank those who have supported the commission in its negotiating stance and its negotiating approach. it is never easy finally to judge precisely the best thing to do at the best time, but we do our best and i think it is true to say that amongst the key negotiating partners the eu has considerable support for the approach that we are taking. this is not as important as the support we have from our own side, from our own member states and from the members of this house. i shall make one observation immediately. we have a number of interests in these negotiations – agricultural, non-agricultural, relating to services liberalisation and rules. our job as negotiators is to get an outcome that is balanced across the range of those negotiating subjects. we will give in some places more than we will give in other places. there will be swings, there will be roundabouts, we will gain, and we will lose. nobody can make a final judgement about what europe will be able to gain from these talks until the very end – not simply when the key modalities are put in place, as i hope they will be this summer, but when all the other negotiations have taken place on the individual country schedules and when all the negotiations about rules have also been put in place. it is very important that those who are particularly concerned about agriculture in europe understand and accept that we will not pay over the limits in agriculture for what we want elsewhere in the talks. we will do what is fair. we will do what is reasonable. we will do what is in our mandate as far as agriculture is concerned. that is clear to me. it should also be clear to our member states. having said that, it is important to keep a sensible perspective in these negotiations. we must be careful not to devote such energy to protecting our defensive interests in agriculture in these negotiations that we fail to prioritise our offensive interests in non-agricultural market access and in services. there really must be a sense of proportion and balance as regards how we weigh the various economic and social interests that are at stake here. as far as the united states is concerned, let me just say this in response to one speech: i do not feel that, should the talks fail, we as european negotiators are in a race with the united states to see who can shift the blame most effectively to the other. i look to the united states as a genuine partner, as a country and an economy that shares some of our interests but at the same time places a different emphasis from us in various areas of these negotiations. we will not reach a successful conclusion unless the eu and the us work together as a team – not at the expense of other negotiating partners, not instead of sensible negotiations and links and agreements that we will have with our negotiating partners in various areas of the negotiations. however, if at the end of the day the eu and the us are at loggerheads and simply cannot agree the ground on which they will stand together to bring these talks to a successful conclusion, then there will be no successful conclusion to these talks. we will lose from that, the united states will lose from that, the global economy will lose from that and in particular developing countries will lose from that. i should like to thank members who have spoken, including those who have asked what my plan b is if these talks fail. i am afraid i am not preparing for failure: i am going to continue to negotiate for success only, whether it be in relation to hormone beef, which is not part of these negotiations – we do not welcome us hormone-treated beef in the european union for health reasons, not trade reasons – or in relation to gmos, which again are not the subject of these talks and where our policy firstly has to be in line with the regulatory framework we adopted in the eu a few years ago and in line with wto rules. it is this that governs our approach, rather than something i am negotiating in these talks. i am glad that we – the commission and members of this parliament – are able to cooperate in geneva and elsewhere. i do not cooperate with this parliament as an act of generosity on my part. there is nothing altruistic about this. the reason i cooperate is because i want the members of the european parliament there on these occasions. you give me valuable insights, you collect information and intelligence, you are able to tap different sources of opinion, which i do not always have easy access to, and you are also, on a good day, able to help us deliver a message to our negotiating partners. that is why i welcome members of this parliament being present and why i shall remain very firmly in cooperation with you.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for debate the oral question to the commission by mr enrique barón crespo, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries ('marking of origin') (o-0065-2006 b6-0316/2006).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to congratulate mr barón, who constantly points out the council's failings when it does not sufficiently involve members in decisions on international trade. we are looking at the way forward to make governments understand the need to involve citizens, and therefore their legitimate representatives, the parliamentarians, in major decisions on international trade. i also commend my friend strudy for the wisdom of joining in this compromise. i shall vote in favour of the joint resolution, although i regret that it merely takes note of the draft regulation on origin labelling. more political support will be needed in the future, in the face of a very divided european council. the text of the draft regulation unfortunately has some imperfections in terms of wording and needs to be clarified in terms of its operation. for example, article 3 (2) of the draft regulation refers to the member state 'where the goods are to be marked'. it is clear that we must speak of the member state of destination, because the marking is made in the country of origin of manufacture and not in the state of consumption. as regards operational details, it is essential, for example, to clarify the concept of 'last substantial processing' which determines the origin of goods when several countries are involved in industrial production, pursuant to article 24 of the community customs code. finally, we must ensure consistency with customs regulations, particularly in the context of the control procedures envisaged in the future reform of the community customs code, which the committee on international trade would like to see referred to, mr president. ladies and gentlemen, the traceability of products and, more generally, of intangible elements are elements of product valorization, a necessity for the fight against fraud and counterfeiting and, finally, an indispensable tool in the economic and social struggle that awaits us. this economic and social struggle, but also the environmental struggle, as you know, is about respect for our values. if we want to enforce our convictions, both in terms of social and environmental clauses in international trade agreements, we must impose the traceability of imported products and our internal market is an important weapon in this fight.
member of the commission. mr president, i am glad that almost every member who has contributed to this debate has supported the original proposal made by the commission. very properly, some important questions have been raised about our ability to meet new customs codes, etc. these are important technical issues that we shall continue to address and to discuss with members of this house. however, overwhelmingly, there is support for the essence – the principle – of our proposal. if we can overcome our disagreement about the method or manner or channel of depositing this proposal with parliament, we would benefit from concentrating subsequently on the substance of this proposal. very simply, it seeks to re-establish a level playing field with our trading partners, many of whom have already instituted forms of origin marking. it creates transparency about the origin of goods and establishes a single standard by which origin is determined. it permits informed consumer decisions. it reduces the incidence potentially of fraudulent or misleading origin marking and it contributes to improved competitiveness. for the consumer to be king – or queen – the consumer needs full information, or as much information as possible. i do not think it is unreasonable that amongst the information that consumers receive is the place of origin of the production or supply of particular goods. let me just stress that it is not a ‘buy europe’ campaign. products will not be stamped ‘this is foreign – do not buy it’! that is not part of my or the commission’s motivation. indeed, the more people know about the origin of goods and come to associate that origin with particular features or the quality of those goods, it may encourage them to buy those goods from those sources and places of origin. why not? however, that is not the point. the point is not whether we want to encourage people to buy goods from particular places of origin or discourage them from doing so, but to give them the information to enable them to make an objective judgement about where they purchase goods. i hope that members of this house will see the ‘origin marking’ proposal as an alternative to protectionist instincts and measures and not as paving the way for them. i do not believe that we run the risk of putting up new non-tariff barriers to trade. i would certainly be very resistant to that. people in europe are entitled to express or to demonstrate whatever preferences they have. those preferences will include the origin or source of production of those goods. this is no more than a simple way of enabling them to do so.
i have received, in accordance with rule 108 (5), seven motions for resolutions. i would point out that the committee on international trade has withdrawn its motion for a resolution b6-0381/2006. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate this afternoon.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on somalia.
member of the commission. mr president, this parliament and the commission are certainly joined in seeking a peaceful and democratic existence for the people of somalia. that has been brought out in the debate this afternoon, following mr smith’s original introduction of this subject. i hope i shall be able to respond to paragraphs 6 and 8 in particular, concerning governance and institution-building in somalia and protection of humanitarian relief and humanitarian relief workers, as he asked me to do. the discussion today on somalia is timely, as the situation of the country and the region as a whole remains very fragile. the commission is very much concerned about the risk of somalia returning to war and to chaos. ever since the establishment of the transitional institutions in 2004, the commission has been spearheading the international community’s efforts to support the somali transitional federal institutions. my colleague, mr michel, follows the situation very closely and is in regular contact with president yusuf and prime minister ghedi of somalia, as well as with leaders of the region. i should like to focus my speech on three main aspects: firstly, the current state of play in the dialogue between the transitional federal institutions and the council of islamic courts; secondly, the regional dimension of the crisis in somalia; and, thirdly, the extent of the commission’s support for the peace process as the most valuable way to promote respect for democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law. concerning the first – the current state of play in the dialogue between the institutions and the islamic courts – on 22 june the transitional federal government and representatives of the union of islamic courts met in khartoum and reached an agreement of principle to engage in dialogue, to mutually recognise each other and to convene for further substantive talks on 15 july, again in khartoum. this agreement was welcomed by high representative solana and by the commission. the commission takes the view that there is a window of opportunity for an inter-somali political dialogue and it is crucial to engage the islamic courts with a view to reaching a political solution within the framework of the transitional federal institutions. confronting the islamic courts is not the solution: it would not only radicalise the positions of all involved but also offer an opening to the extremists to further their agenda to create an islamic state, to introduce sharia law and provide a safe haven for al-qaida cells. secondly, the regional dimension of the crisis in somalia is crucial. it is essential that all regional partners show unity of purpose and engage constructively in the somali peace process. destabilising interventions in somali affairs by other countries in the region must be rejected and condemned. we are committed to work closely and support the initiatives of igad, the african union and the league of arab states in finding a political solution to the crisis, as mr coveney was asking us to do. the commission intends to anchor somalia in a broader regional strategy for peace, security and development for the horn of africa. the outline of that strategy was presented by commissioner michel to the igad heads of state last february. finally, the commission is the main donor for somalia, with an ongoing overall aid programme of eur 300 million. we have supported the somali national reconciliation conference and the establishment of the transitional federal institutions and are now committed to further enhancing the functioning of the transitional institutions. on 28 may 2006, president barroso and commissioner michel signed a memorandum of understanding with the transitional federal government. i can confirm that the commission intends to make eur 22 million available immediately to support the short-term governance and capacity-building priorities set out by the transitional federal government. we remain unequivocally committed to supporting the peace process. the commission’s humanitarian arm, echo, is also providing direct relief assistance to the civilian population affected by the fighting, as well as by the consequences of drought. everyone has a responsibility for ensuring the safe delivery of that humanitarian assistance and providing the safe custody and security of the humanitarian workers, all of whom are involved in this very valuable work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate this afternoon.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on mauritania.
president. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mauritania is a member of the acp and yet it is one of the forgotten countries of the world. for too long european countries have turned a blind eye to the dictatorship of president ould taya, who imprisoned, tortured and forced opponents of the regime to flee. parliament and the european institutions were silent when we asked for a mission to observe the 2003 presidential elections, even though some candidates were in prison. the union was cold-blooded after the events of 3 august 2005, when the dictator was overthrown without a drop of blood being spilled, even though we knew that the country was on the verge of explosion. i am pleased to have organised in 2004 in the european parliament the first discussion platform bringing together, on neutral ground, mauritanian civil society, political parties and official representatives to prepare the way to democracy. today we welcome the union's support for the democratic process in which mauritania has committed itself, based on a popular consensus behind the military council for justice and democracy. the transitional authority has already given its backing, with the creation of an independent national electoral commission, the abolition of media censorship and the holding of a referendum on 25 june, which was welcomed by international observers. and i welcome the commitment of the union to send a long-term observation mission to the elections in november this year, thus ensuring that every mauritanian citizen can exercise his or her voting rights. finally, the dividends from the black gold must be used for the education, health and development of the mauritanian population. the exploitation of oil, which will not last forever, must not be done at the expense of marine and coastal biodiversity but must, for example, preserve the argouin bank from pollution and ensure sustainable management of the fishery resources that mauritanians so badly need. i welcome the fact that the authorities have engaged with the union in a more open discussion on fisheries agreements in order to reach a fair agreement. the ban on factory ships such as the atlantic dawn, for example, is a precondition for this. finally, and i conclude, the cooperation project on the fight against immigration must promote the development of employment in mauritania and provide migrants with a welcome worthy of european values.
author. mr president, on 3 august 2005, the regime of former president ould taya was overthrown, and a military council declared its intention to put an end to totalitarian practices and establish democracy. it is therefore conceivable that these are merely statements intended to justify what the international community has called a coup d'état. but then you realise that not a drop of blood was shed, that the transitional authorities have started a dialogue with all the political parties and civil society, have set an electoral calendar and, exceptionally, decide to run in the next elections themselves. we are thinking that something is happening in mauritania and that this may be an opportunity to get the country out of dictatorship. our role now is to support the democratic process under way in accordance with the timetable which the mauritanian people have set themselves. in this respect, i welcome the holding of the last constitutional elections, supporting the ceni, which must however ensure that all mauritanians can obtain their identity papers to be able to vote in the next elections, and that mauritanians abroad can participate in future elections, also supporting the political parties so that they have the means to express themselves and campaign around electoral platforms with proposals to improve the situation of the mauritanian people.
member of the commission. mr president, following last year’s coup d’état the eu decided to open consultations with the islamic republic of mauritania under article 96 of the revised cotonou agreement. the opening meeting was cordial and constructive. it was attended by representatives from mauritanian political parties and civil society, who were given the opportunity to air their points of view, and by a group of ambassadors from acp countries. mauritania gave 23 undertakings in the areas of respect for democratic principles, fundamental freedoms and rights, the rule of law and good governance. a further undertaking was also given regarding monitoring and reporting. at the opening meeting, the commission encouraged the mauritanian authorities to ensure the widest possible registration of voters in the country and abroad, as well as participation in the constitutional referendum and in the several elections due to take place during the transition period. the commission also encouraged the creation of an electoral level playing field through the adoption of equitable mechanisms of party financing and the guarantee of impartial behaviour by the military, the transition government, the administration and the judges. the commission invited the transition authorities to take account of past problems, the most important of which are the sequels of slavery and the consequences of the inter-ethnic violence of 1989-1990 that led to loss of life and property and to the departure to neighbouring countries of tens of thousands of mauritanian citizens. while recognising that the duration of the transition period will not allow the new authorities to solve all problems, the commission encouraged them to take decisive action in all those areas. the undertakings given by mauritania have, in the commission’s opinion, addressed all the main problems that the country is facing. their formulation by the authorities was largely based upon the conclusions of the october 2005 national consultation workshops, which benefited from the participation of all stakeholders and reflected a broad national consensus. progress in the implementation of mauritania’s undertakings allowed the eu to recognise that steady progress had been made and to conclude the consultations at the end of may 2006. however, given the measures still to be put in hand, the eu will conduct an enhanced political dialogue with the government over an 18-month monitoring period. in that context, the deployment of electoral observation missions for the forthcoming elections is foreseen and a first evaluation mission by the commission will indeed take place next week.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate this afternoon.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on freedom of expression on the internet.
author. mr president, in our globalised society, the internet is a fast and user-friendly way of communicating between individuals or groups, of doing business, of obtaining information, of creating. the internet has become an open global public space where everyone is, in principle, free to move around and express themselves. the world summit on the information society has placed the fundamental rights of the human person as the foundation of the information society. however, we are not all equal when it comes to freedom of expression on the internet, and some states have taken steps to censor the expression of citizens, journalists and others. worse, reporters without borders has made an alarming assessment of the crackdown on the internet and reports a very high number of internet users imprisoned, especially in china. our resolution enables us to oppose forcefully these violations of freedoms and to condemn the states which practice them. we call on the council and the commission to show the same concern in their international relations and aid and cooperation programmes. but we also want to call for the responsibility of companies, particularly european companies, which, by providing technology or services, are more or less involved in these acts and which should commit themselves to a code of conduct that avoids their participation in censorship, repression and persecution. we cannot advocate free trade while refusing to protect individual freedoms. the athens forum on internet governance, to be held in november, should enable the european union to put the recommendations of this resolution into practice.
member of the commission. mr president, the motions for resolutions on freedom of expression on the internet propose the means to promote access to the internet free of repression by national authorities. these suggestions concentrate on measures to improve internet governance and fight human rights violations. the world summit on the information society held in tunis in november 2005 reaffirmed the links between the development of the information society and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of expression and opinion, as well as the freedom to receive and access information. this consensus reached during the summit is a basis for us ‘to prevent and counteract threats, risks and limitations to human rights posed by the misuse of information and communication technologies’ as outlined in the commission’s communication of april 2006 on the summit follow-up. in this communication, the commission ‘encourages the companies concerned to work on a code of conduct on this crucial issue, in close cooperation with ngos’. this code of conduct would constitute an important step towards inspiring these countries to establish respective ethical standards. the promotion of freedom of expression figures highly on the agenda of the community’s corresponding external assistance programmes, in particular the european initiative for democracy and human rights. this will remain unchanged in the coming years under the new financing instrument for democracy and human rights. furthermore, we have a policy of bridging the digital divide between rich and poor countries. the more internet use spreads, the more difficult it becomes for repressive governments to control it, despite the whole panoply of censorship methods. the commission is actively promoting the summit’s recommendations in this area. before concluding, let me add a few more words on internet governance. the tunis agenda called for the establishment of a forum for multi-stakeholder policy dialogue, the internet governance forum, which will first meet at the end of october in athens. europe should play a central role in this process. i am therefore hopeful that the european parliament will take this opportunity to launch this dialogue with the representatives of european civil society before the athens forum.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate this afternoon, that is to say in a moment. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 5.20 p.m.)
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to express my solidarity with our spanish, greek, italian and other friends who have suffered from these forest fires, and of course i have a thought for the victims, because these fires are ecological tragedies, human tragedies. but there are many things that upset me. when will we stop talking about the forest fires that occurred during the summer every september? we've been doing this for years and it's not working. parliament has already voted on the provisions establishing european civil protection coordination. this is the emergency. it's coming in, slowly. there is no doubt that things need to be improved. i am revolting because these so-called natural disasters are not. when it comes to fires, they are either intentional or due to negligence. it must be condemned. the european union cannot and must not act on behalf of the member states. they must do everything possible to avoid speculation on land. it takes political courage to put in place genuine land-use planning policies that preserve our natural spaces and the diversity necessary for the ecological balance of our planet. we want to focus on prevention so we have less to fix. the role of europe is to set common objectives for good forest management with a certain degree of flexibility, because the mediterranean forest is not the same as the scandinavian forest and if climate change worsens drought in one region, it unfortunately causes floods in another. it is our farmers who, in these particular cases, suffer the most. yes, europe must support the voluntary policies of the member states and finance the measures taken to achieve the objectives. it must also encourage forest owners to diversify species, to provide for fire suppression, to maintain the undergrowth through the forest focus, life + programmes, etc., but above all it must be careful not to commit itself to the creation of yet another european body. public money is not made to finance bureaucracy, but to respond effectively to the expectations of our fellow citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, as head of the european union election observation mission in the democratic republic of congo, i have visited the country on several occasions since the commission, mr commissioner, put me in charge of it last october. there is a whole book to be written about the extraordinary adventure undertaken by the congolese people to establish democratic institutions with the help of the international community and especially the european union. i shall confine my remarks to comments on the next step along this road on sunday 30 july, when the first round of the presidential elections coincides with the parliamentary elections. the day after the first round, on 1 august, i had the pleasure of signing, together with my counterparts from all over the world, from the african union, the francophonie and the carter foundation, a joint declaration which essentially stated how impressed we were - i quote - by the strong mobilisation of congolese voters and the participation of witnesses from political parties and national observers in the 30 july vote. we congratulate the congolese people on the serene and dignified atmosphere in which these elections took place and urge the candidates - i quote again - to respect the choices of the congolese people and to use the legal channels of appeal in case of dispute. we call on them to amplify the dynamic of peace that has been observed and to take a lasting part in the process of national reconciliation and reconstruction of the country. unfortunately, this call was not heard by the most furious supporters of either candidate, who were leading in the first round, and shortly before the announcement of the provisional results on sunday, august 20, they began to clash in the heart of the capital, culminating on monday afternoon in heavy gun battles around the residence of the first vice-president, where members of the international committee for transitional assistance were gathered, chaired by the special representative of the un secretary-general, bill swing. it was only thanks to the intervention of a security apparatus set up by the general commander of the monuc forces, with the support of the european forces of eufor, that the hostages could be released and the madmen forced to return to their barracks. i was pleased to have defended the constitution of this force here and i felt proud - commissioner, you are right - to be european, because it was the remarkably effective intervention of the european union that allowed the calm to return quickly. the people of kinshasa should also be congratulated once again for refusing to be drawn back into the murder and plunder to which they were being invited by the most vehement of those who remained opposed to any democratic revolution. the calm that has prevailed since then throughout the country may give reason to hope that the rebels are now out of harm's way. it is up to us to be extremely vigilant and to continue to exert all our political and, if necessary, military weight on the two remaining candidates until the second round of the presidential elections scheduled for 29 october. then, in accordance with the constitution, power, commissioner, will return to the people through their elected parliament. that's what the congolese people are looking for. that's what we need to keep helping them with.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, the european union has indeed committed itself financially and politically, with great determination, to the electoral process in the democratic republic of the congo and we can only be pleased about this. the same applies to the desire expressed by the congolese people to finally be able to choose their own leaders and to european support in this matter, provided that this support is perceived as being of total neutrality, which has caused problems in recent times. the situation is still very tense, and although it is clear that these elections appear to be a necessity or an emergency after so many years of war, chaos and casualties, they will not be enough to put the country back on its feet, as it still has serious problems, starting with extreme poverty and high levels of violence, which regularly undermine efforts to establish the rule of law. the control of arms trafficking and trade, the establishment of an effective police and judicial system, the prosecution of the worst criminals before the international criminal court are the conditions for consolidating peace. this impunity also has a serious impact on health issues. in addition to the shortage of health workers, to which dr mukwege, who works in eastern congo, drew our attention in brussels last may, there is also the problem of mass rape and the inhuman treatment of women, which must be fought relentlessly, also relying on the ability of local communities to organise themselves, to restore acceptable conditions of daily life, to denounce and punish violence. will the newly elected leaders of the drc be able to put an end to this violence? the concern is justified, especially in view of the unrest that followed the announcement of the presidential election results, which, however, still leave a chance for each of the two candidates who came out on top in the elections. in the event of serious disturbances, what would be the precise mandate of eufor? finally, the drc's mineral and forestry resources are now being exploited in a blatantly corrupt way, often with disastrous social and environmental impacts. the responses given not only by the elected congolese authorities but also by the political and economic partners of the european union in terms of transparency, the use of rents, and the social and ecological conditions of exploitation will be essential in determining whether or not the drc is able to act in favour of sustainable development. what are your plans in this area, commissioner? given the events in the drc, a peaceful and democratic transition would be a strong sign of hope for the thousands of africans who are now fleeing their countries and fleeing to european shores in the hope of escaping the chaos and ensuring their survival. in any case, everything must be done to give the democratic republic of congo and the millions of congolese who have suffered so much and who have reacted with such energy and vigour a chance.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, the suspension of the doha round of negotiations is first of all a failure to deliver on a promise to rebalance trade rules in favour of the developing countries. it marks the triumph of the narrow interests of certain countries over the general interest of the international community and, as the chairman of the committee on international trade, we are all obviously thinking of the midterm elections in the united states. it is already opening the way to a challenge to the multilateral system as the main framework for trade negotiations and to a retreat to more unbalanced bilateral negotiations, which are unfavourable to the poorest countries and, in particular, to small countries, as you have just mentioned, commissioner. and it will leave the multilateral system intact, which will not disappear, whereas the point is to start reforming it and make it more compatible with the development goals and with the other rules of the international community: the need to take into account the public health, environmental objectives, and tomorrow - we hope - also the social dimension of globalisation. the main losers from this suspension of the negotiating cycle will be the developing countries, and among them, more particularly, the least developed countries. whatever the shortcomings, the limits, what was on the table, what was proposed in particular by the european union, which was often going in the direction of what our parliament was asking for, will be put at risk, will be lost: the abolition of export subsidies by 2013, free access to the markets of developed countries for ldc products, free of duties and quotas, even if the problem of those 3% tariff lines which a number of other industrialized countries were asking for remained, increased access to the markets of industrialized countries for all agricultural products from developing countries, even if the american proposals are very insufficient, the treatment of the situation of cotton producers, the trade aid package, the amendment of the adpic agreement for access to medicines. i am glad, commissioner, that you are announcing that you will take up your pilgrim's staff again, meet the g20 and the united states again and try to find ways of returning to the negotiating table. i think we must not accept the idea of burying the doha cycle. whatever difficulties the expiry of the authorization to negotiate given to the us administration by congress may cause, we must not accept that the commitments that had been made, the promises that had been made, should be simply thrown away, and i am glad that you have assured us that the european union will, for its part, keep its commitments and promises. and then perhaps we should simply go back to the heart of this cycle and remind our partners in the industrialized countries that we knew it would not be based on reciprocity, that we knew we would have to offer more in terms of access to agricultural products than we would get in terms of industrial tariffs and opening up markets and services. europe must continue to promote the multilateral system; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the hypocrisy of international trade on this planet is finally being exposed, in the dialogue between the copyists, the liars and the thieves. if the situation were not so dramatic, everyone would be relieved to see the wolves come out of the woods with their faces uncovered and the sorcerer's apprentices learn the fable of the watered-down sprinkler again. you are right, commissioner peter mandelson, to boycott the canberra meeting in australia, which is due to take place in about two weeks' time, because the world trade organisation should not be buried so quickly. the situation is serious because governments have proven incapable of managing the global commons of trade and, worse, of achieving a development agenda. i would like to share some thoughts and a proposal with you. as regards the doha agenda, would it not be a good idea to take note of the development part where there is a consensus and to leave international trade reform aside while the developing countries adopt social and environmental standards which allow for fair global competition? my second thought is about agriculture. the european union should stop any future concessions while we wait for the future of agriculture after 2013, especially in view of the great changes that biotechnology offers us and the problems of human food that will inevitably arise. the question is: can you assure us, commissioner, that the common agricultural policy which is currently operating after the 2003 reform is compatible with the current wto rules and that we are not at risk of losing in litigation before the dispute settlement body? finally, in view of the inability of the executive to agree on international trade, i propose that a parliamentary initiative be taken without delay under the auspices of the world interparliamentary union and our european parliament. this initiative would consist in questioning the legitimate representatives of the people on this matter and in making a recommendation to the executive as to the way forward to resolve the major current disorders in international trade.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, for all those who are committed to the multilateral structure, as has just been mentioned, this breakdown in the implementation of the doha development work programme, which was supposed to make it possible to put the rules of trade at the service of development, is very bad news. if it fails, we know what awaits us: a proliferation of regional bilateral agreements, always to the detriment of the weaker. in short, it is the very opposite of our objectives, which are to rebalance the rules of international trade in favour of the developing countries. this cycle was to ensure a fairer sharing of the benefits of globalisation and to take account of differences in levels of development, and it was to offer developing countries better access to markets without forcing them to open up their own markets at any cost. these negotiations were not without shortcomings, but they also provided some progress, which was noted. these advances and achievements deserve to be saved and i welcome the will expressed by commissioner mandelson in this regard. this will is essential, the resumption of negotiations is essential, but progress also means reform, and the question of reform of the wto is now being raised.
mr president, every day millions of women are victims of abuse of all kinds: brutality in family relations, intimidation at work, mental cruelty, sexual abuse or forced prostitution. in the european union, one in five women is a victim of what is known as domestic violence, that is, violence by her husband or partner. but let's not forget that these numbers only include reported violence. indeed, fear, shame, and limited access to official services are all too often the reasons why all violence is not reported. in addition, some types of violence are not recorded because they do not correspond to the pre-established definitions and are not considered as crimes because they are taboo subjects. the daphne programme to combat violence against women, which has been proposed by parliament and the council for more than six years now, covers all forms of abuse other than domestic violence to which women are subjected throughout the world. in this connection, it should be emphasized that the vast majority of these abuses are linked to particular cultures or societies, and particularly to islam and to countries where the law of the koran is in force, and where stoning, mutilation of the genitals, immolation or forced marriage are part of the culture, religion and mores. the daphne programme must concentrate all its efforts on this struggle for women's right to information, their protection, the repression of those who commit these abuses, but also contribute to a change in certain barbaric attitudes and customs which, unfortunately, persist in many of these countries governed by the qur'anic law.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize to all of you for the delay in my flight to strasbourg this morning, which prevented me from following the first part of the debate, which was followed by mr kovács. in general, i would like to express my sincere appreciation for the way in which parliament and the commission have worked on the daphne programme in recent months. i also warmly thank the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee on women's rights, who are well aware that i supported from the outset, about a year ago, the idea of separating the daphne part on violence against women and children from the part on the fight against drugs, in order to avoid confusion of subjects. i am very pleased that there is general agreement on this today and that more seriously, more strongly, with about twice the resources as planned in the past, the emphasis can be placed on the issue of prevention, of the response to all forms of violence affecting children and women. i believe in particular that the commission is not only ready but also very happy to continue to cooperate closely with parliament in implementing activities, in the sense of constantly informing parliament about how daphne programmes are allocated and what the actual results of the programmes and projects that are then financed are. there is an important theme which i heard in the last part of the debate from some honourable members: the commission has already made a number of proposals. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thought this was a particularly important issue, since it is not enough to emphasize the role of the national states, the police and the judiciary in prosecuting and punishing acts of violence at national level: we need a strong european voice against all forms of violence which increasingly affect children and women! that is why the daphne programme is necessary, that is its added value, which does not detract from the duty of the national police, the duty of the judiciary to prosecute and punish individual cases of violence at national level, but we cannot fail to make europe's voice heard in the face of increasingly transnational crime and against women, for example in all forms of trafficking for forced prostitution, or children for everything that concerns the horrible crime of paedophilia which is increasingly becoming a transnational crime. the added value of european action in this area is clear and obvious to those who still have doubts. i shall now make very few comments on certain amendments, which emphasize certain particular types of violence. care must be taken not to exclude other forms of violence, but in what sense? in the sense that if we refer in the text of the project only to certain types of action for which daphne can grant funding, we risk excluding other forms of violence for which daphne must also provide funding. i would prefer a more general formulation, covering prevention and response to all types of violence, without specifying some of them and therefore without the risk of excluding others. a particular amendment concerns the european federation for missing and exploited children. a compromise amendment proposed, amendment no 72, confirms the possibility of financing this federation, but adds another organization called enoc. i am in favour of the compromise amendment which, on the one hand, allows funding to be granted to well-established and well-established organizations, but on the other hand, with this second organization, the range of potential recipients of funding is somewhat broadened. two final remarks: the first is that there is a lot of talk about a european telephone helpline to help children in need. the initiative is extremely important and i can inform you today that we are already preparing a draft framework decision. we had committed ourselves to this, i had committed myself to this when i presented to you the communication on the rights of the child in june, and today i can tell you that the preparation of the framework decision on the single european telephone line is under way and we will present it very soon. it is an initiative which will really help, and i thank those who have referred to it in the debate. the last issue was raised by some members, the idea of having a european directive against violence against women. i really appreciate the idea, it's very interesting, but i have one concern: seek an appropriate legal basis. we must find it, i do not know whether there is an adequate legal basis in the treaties for a directive against violence against women, but if we can solve this aspect of the legal basis, i would be very politically in favour of at least harmonizing european guidelines to punish severely cases of criminal violence against women. it's a start we can take back. i thank all those who took part in this debate and i look forward to continuing to cooperate with you on these issues.
the daphne programme has made considerable progress in the fight against violence against women, young people and children. daphne is a very valuable tool for raising awareness and promoting good practice, and has helped to mobilise the ngo network and raise public awareness of these forms of violence, which have long been considered taboo. beyond these results, which must be consolidated and amplified by increased funding, this is concrete evidence of the added value of action at european level; it is a reminder that europe is a political entity based on fundamental values such as the protection of vulnerable people. this is now the primary meaning of european commitment, even before economic power. but beyond the "ambitious outcome targets" proclaimed, we need clear and credible objectives to reduce further this violence, because much remains to be done. we can therefore welcome the concrete assistance services to the organisations concerned, as well as the extension of assistance to a wider range of ngos made necessary by the international growth of organised crime. it should be remembered that the success of the programmes financed by daphne is based on the involvement of its actors, who carry out the indispensable work of proximity and monitoring.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many positive elements in the report by our colleague mr stubb on multilingualism in our institutions. mr stubb is quite right in pointing out that this multilingualism, which is admittedly costly, is a political choice aimed at preserving the quality of each of our particular identities and at avoiding the cultural uniformity which would inevitably result from the domination of a single language. it should also apply this reasoning to the slight additional cost of interpreting in strasbourg, because the choice of strasbourg is also a political choice, that of franco-german reconciliation. finally, i take this opportunity to protest once again against the scandal of the non-attached members. in contrast to the case law of the european court, they do not have the same means of interpretation and translation as their colleagues who are members of a group. the bureau has looked into this situation and has not found a solution for almost two years now. this discriminatory situation must end. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague luis de grandes pascual on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the multiannual funding over seven years of the european maritime safety agency by providing it with substantial financial means to carry out its new tasks, namely: to combat accidental or deliberate pollution caused by ships. the agency's idea of chartering so-called 'reserve' commercial vessels that would interrupt their commercial activities to deploy in the disaster area is worth testing. however, the progress reports on this system should be examined carefully, as i wonder whether it would not be more effective to simply outsource this security service, which by its nature can only be occasional. the amounts at stake are not neutral, as the cost of these reserve vessels represents, for the period 2007 to 2013, €134 million of the €154 million granted to the agency. finally, i wholeheartedly support the appropriations for the establishment of the satellite imagery service to support the member states in their fight against illegal discharges and accidental spills of oil.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague lissy gröner on the draft legislative resolution, at first reading, of the european parliament and of the council establishing the specific programme combating violence, preventing drug use and informing the public for the period 2007-2013. i support the parliamentary initiative to separate the problem of violence from that of drug use. the european union must grow by combating in a politically visible way all forms of violence, in particular those against women, children and adolescents. in the humanistic civilization we are building, physical, sexual or psychological violence, including the threat of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, in public or private life, constitute an attack on the union's fundamental values of the right to life, security, liberty, dignity and physical and emotional integrity. it is an obstacle to the safe, free and fair exercise of citizenship. as for the scourge of drugs, if we cannot effectively ban them, i support any programme to prevent and raise public awareness, especially among young people, of this painful phenomenon.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr riis-jørgensen's report on car taxation seeks to impose a traffic tax based on the polluting emissions of cars, in order to encourage motorists to opt for the least polluting vehicles, while ensuring that manufacturers have a more homogeneous and transparent market. but this tax only affects private cars, which account for less than half of the co2 emissions attributable to transport. moreover, the fiscal route does not appear to be the best solution to this pollution problem, in view of the prospects for technological development and the regulatory means. the directive will also impose new taxes in countries such as france, where the tax burden is already so heavy that motorists are seen as both cash cows and scapegoats. the europe which is endeavouring to impoverish its people by its ultra-liberal policies should avoid the multiplication of the costs of acquiring and using a personal car, which is a direct attack on the freedom of movement of persons which it claims to defend. these considerations, apart from the fact that we deny any fiscal competence to the europe of brussels, lead us to vote against this report.
in writing. some governments are concerned about vehicle taxation, others are concerned about the continuation of a variable geometry tax system. as regards the draft directive, i would like to stress the importance of promoting a proactive approach. should we discuss binding measures to curb climate change? to make progress, the reluctance of the automotive and oil lobbies must be overcome. environmental taxation is a tool for citizens and the planet. if properly developed, it will encourage innovation in transport sectors and promote energy savings. we also need to end the rigidity of our governments. taxation cannot be a reserved area. the regulations that internalise ghgs need to be developed. it is essential to empower citizens and develop tools for assessing the ecological footprint. the greens voted for this bill, the first step towards a co2 tax. it would build an environmental tax architecture that is up to the challenge. the greens want the it to be maintained. in denmark, it has contributed to the decline in the number of cars. the greens remain sceptical about 'budgetary neutrality' and fear further levies. we regret that the ep has not followed the green amendments requiring member states to reduce co2 emissions from transport.
mr president, too often our citizens see european intervention as an intrusion into their daily lives. and sometimes they're right. but those who did not want a constitution refused to see that this text could clarify the competences of the union and those of the member states. our fellow citizens are in fact demanding a europe that responds to their urgent and concrete concerns, but only when it is best placed to do so. in this spirit, social europe is a priority among the priorities. we have a duty to draw up a framework which is - as you said, commissioner - modern and balanced, and which guarantees a high level of social standards while leaving sufficient room for manoeuvre to the member states. ladies and gentlemen, let us put an end to the fruitless debates between those who see the word 'social' as synonymous with the resurgence of statism and those who propose unrealistic and counterproductive measures throughout the reports. as we have already done with the services directive, we must all work together urgently to define this framework, starting, for example, with the adoption of legislation on working time, services of general interest and the status of european mutual societies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on their work. with this report, supported by the committee on employment and social affairs - i would like to stress this - we are taking a big step towards defining the european social model: a balanced combination of economic requirements and social justice imperatives. too many europeans suffer because our union does not protect them, does not preserve their public services, does not pay enough attention to the consequences of globalisation. many fear threats to the most structural elements of their social model. in the face of such suffering, our responsibility is, of course, to uphold values, but also to prove our will by concrete measures. it would be contrary to our values and futile to seek the lowest labour costs, the most docile employees, the lowest taxes, the most lax environmental, social, health and safety standards of our competitors. on the contrary, our identity and strength contribute to the excellence of our production work standards. this report shows that beyond our differences, we have a common attachment to a society that is not organized by the law of the market alone, but by solidarity and redistribution through the protection of our fellow citizens, that is to say our human capital, our richest and most important capital. europe has shown that social security, life-threatening protection and the right to a pension for all are the ingredients of a recipe that is good for the citizen, good for society, good for the economy, and will remain the way forward for our future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that, as much as we are quite powerless in the face of earthquakes and tsunamis, this is a matter of political will. some figures: who estimates that of the one million deaths from malaria, 200,000 are due to counterfeit or improperly administered medicines. the well-known british journal the lancet attributes 192,000 deaths in china to the ingestion of counterfeit medicines. how many hopes are ruined by the use of these drugs? we have here the moral basis for strong political action. there is nothing like counterfeiting luxury goods. i am thinking of bags, pens, lighters, glasses, which naturally require the active complicity of the buyer, since he knows what he is buying and is seldom deceived. the counterfeiting of medicines is the most immoral of all counterfeits because, of course, there is no complicity of the purchaser in this purchase. you go into debt to kill your children. in this case, the food and drug administration and the who estimate that 10% of the world market is affected by counterfeiting. 70% of the anti-malarial drugs in seven african countries are counterfeit drugs. on average, 25% of medicines consumed in the least developed countries, 50% in pakistan and nigeria, are counterfeit medicines. what are we talking about? i quote the who definition. a counterfeit medicinal product is a medicinal product that is deliberately and fraudulently labelled with misleading information as to its true identity or source. it can be an original specialty or a generic product, and some of the counterfeit products contain good ingredients or bad ingredients, or no active ingredient at all. other medicines have been found to contain insufficient amounts of the active ingredient and have been adulterated. what are we gonna do? nothing or nothing! we're deceived, sometimes deliberately, i was talking about; we always kill by accident. we are in a protected environment in the european union. we have an efficient health care system. we have controlled professions. we have states present and social control. but we have to do something for those countries that don't have all our advantages. it is a duty of the union, and it is a matter of honour. the world is actually unarmed. there are few specific laws, both international and national, extremely porous borders, the proliferation of modern distribution systems such as the internet, the absence or near absence of regulatory authorities and quality control of products, archaic and uncontrolled distribution systems, and no distinction between counterfeiting and trademark protection. let us not be mistaken, we are not dealing with amateurs, with boy scouts, we are dealing with a perfectly organized environment, because counterfeiting medicines is less risky and more lucrative than drug trafficking. so we have to hit hard and hit everywhere. we call for the european union to play a major role in the development of a global convention to crack down on the entire chain. this is also the meaning of written declaration no 53 which i urge my colleagues to sign. since early 2006, who has set up a working group to develop a model law on repression that each state can then adopt. we, the european union, have the political means to be at the forefront, thanks to our network of partners, thanks to the intellectual input, political support and financial support of the bodies responsible for monitoring that we will be able to exercise. we have all the means to act, ladies and gentlemen. we have the diversity of partners, we have the amount of aid needed - it should be remembered that we are the world's leading contributor and only a tiny fraction of this aid would solve the problem - we have the legal engineering and we have the means to weigh in with the main actors that should be the who and the un. so, i don't want to make you cry in the sheds, but who can think of a mother who cries over her child thinking she gave him the medicine that was going to save him! imagine a single case like this in europe and what our media would do. such cases are daily occurrences in less developed countries. we're not in the realm of magic and glitter powder, we're in the sordid. i would like to tell you, commissioner, that i will be exercising, on behalf of the european parliament and with the help of my colleagues, a right of reply. in a year, i'll ask you again to find out what was done. this war deserves no respite.
for the greens/efa group mr commissioner, the counterfeiting of medicines is a particularly serious problem, but unfortunately it is not new and has been known for several years. it is therefore to be hoped that the timely question put by our colleague will finally lead to some results. the first reason for the counterfeiting of medicines is that they are too expensive for poor countries and their people. the first of these would therefore be to ensure that the poorest countries, the poorest populations, have access to generic medicines, as my colleague has said. generics still occupy too small a place in the pharmaceutical market. i would also not like the fight against counterfeiting to be seen as a matter of strengthening patent protection in the pharmaceutical sector and thereby protecting the future development of the already considerable profits which the pharmaceutical industry makes in many sectors. the priority is therefore to encourage the development of public health policies in the countries concerned and, moreover, to encourage the establishment of a rule of law. that is the priority. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this question of public health policy is a fundamental one, the other being prevention. health is not just a matter of medicine. in other words, taking medicine is not the only way to be healthy. for example, in many developing countries today, unsafe drinking water is a killer. another example is aids: counterfeiting is very widespread in this field and the recent unaids conference placed great emphasis on prevention. it is therefore also through prevention, information and education policies, drawing on the know-how of local communities, that we can try to solve the problem, and not just by putting dozens of substances on the market at prohibitive prices. in conclusion, i believe that we must begin by strengthening and coordinating better the existing measures to combat counterfeiting. secondly, and above all, we must help the developing countries, the poorest countries, to establish viable states and public health policies which cover all health problems and not just access to medicines.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. commissioner, may i first congratulate my colleague john bowis who has done a remarkable job on a particularly important subject which affects us all, since one in four europeans will experience a mental health problem in their lifetime, with the significant repercussions this has for their loved ones. i am afraid that this subject is not really a matter of concern to everyone; no matter who we are, mental health affects us. for a long time, we have turned a blind eye to these evils. mental illness was supposed to be a difficult time, or worse. these people felt stigmatized because they had to keep their suffering a secret. this heavy silence must no longer exist today; to speak of it is to act. talking about these illnesses is the first step to recovery for most of them. isolating and discriminating against those who suffer is like pointing a loaded gun at their heads. i think of a young person whose promising future is suddenly shattered because, as he grows into adulthood, he is diagnosed with schizophrenia - a disease that causes suffering not only to himself but also to his family. the number of attempted suicides should make us reflect on the seriousness of the problem, not forgetting that some of the crime we are experiencing is a consequence of the increase in certain types of mental disorders. the ageing of the population should also give us cause for concern, because with ageing, unfortunately, the number of mental illnesses is increasing. we must take this phenomenon into account. the european union can develop its prevention activities but it must also help research to tackle this phenomenon in order to better understand the factors affecting mental health, especially in early childhood, to better guide the patient's journey, to promote the most appropriate medicines and to support the training of healthcare workers. you don't treat an adult like a child or a teenager. we can also consider the different approaches that can be used depending on whether the person is a man or a woman. and let us not forget the crucial role of the doctor in the patient's care. sometimes the doctor feels very alone and wonders about forced hospitalization or confinement. i am expecting the commission to take its approach further and to come back to us with proposals based on those on which we will vote tomorrow. it is essential that mental health should be given a full place in european health policy and that these illnesses should be treated differently, with the respect and dignity to which every human being is entitled.
mr president, a tsunami is sweeping across europe's economies and societies, with this giant wave called mental illness, which i prefer to call neurological illness, to avoid stigmatisation. the number of people who are sick is continually increasing, because the wave is fuelled by the ageing of the population, which is obvious, and by economic ultra-liberalism, which is a taboo, even a mental one. the european commission is no doubt saying something about this, as is the rapporteur in paragraph 24, which talks about rural isolation, working conditions, insecurity and unemployment. but who has done the rural isolation if not the destruction of the cap, and this in the name of free trade? who caused unemployment if not the political choice of free trade? what causes workplace stress if not the ideology of competition? and to treat these neurological patients, as mr bowis has asked, we would need specialised services, staff, personal assistance, hospitals, that is to say, investments, which the budgetary austerity pact forbids, in the name, of course, of the ideology of competitiveness and free trade. and that's where we get into a rut, because what causes the disease is a false philosophy of economic competition, and to be able to treat it, you would need investment, which the same philosophy prevents. so the answer may lie in an agency tasked with exploring the brain continent, but it probably lies more in curing our leaders. don quixote of la mancha said, "he had read so many books on chivalry that his brain had dried up". they've read so much adam smith and david ricardo, they've gone mad.
member of the commission. the commission has said from the beginning that it welcomes the interest parliament is taking in the common frame of reference– the cfr – and the support which has been expressed for this project. the commission is currently considering the possibility of including contract law issues other than consumer issues in the cfr on contract law. i should like to explain that even though we are now proceeding with the consumer aspect, that does not mean that we have reached any final conclusion on whether to include any other aspects of contract law. i am working very closely with my colleagues mr frattini and mr mccreevy on this issue. these other contract law issues could be related to the other eu contract law acquis or general contract law topics which are directly relevant to the eu acquis. the truth is that the commission has not yet taken a decision on this matter, but it will take a final decision soon. we have taken due note of the european parliament’s opinion on this issue, especially that expressed in the recent resolution. i have also had an opportunity to discuss the issue in the various committees. the commission also intends to seek the council’s position on the remainder of the work on the cfr. the commission intends to use the cfr as a ‘better lawmaking’ tool for achieving clarity when legislating. exactly what legal form to choose in order to best achieve that aim is a key issue, which will need careful consideration. it will be easier to make a decision once there is more certainty over the content of the cfr. then we can examine how best to ensure that the cfr is used as effectively as possible. we have to realise that cfr is work in progress and will take some years to complete. while the commission can take into account the cfr work when drawing up new legislative proposals relating to contract law issues, it would not be useful or necessary to delay future contract law related legislation until all discussions on the cfr have been finalised. meanwhile, the commission has already indicated that it plans to use relevant cfr results in the review of the consumer contract law acquis. as clearly indicated in its communication of october 2004, the cfr as such is not primarily meant to be a legislative instrument applicable directly to legal transactions, but a toolbox to facilitate better lawmaking for legislators. the commission fully understands that parliament wants to be kept informed of and involved in the ongoing work on the cfr and would therefore welcome parliament’s involvement in the cfr process, in particular the creation of the parliament working group. the commission will continue to keep parliament informed of developments in the most appropriate way, in particular through the parliament working group. i would like to conclude by thanking you for parliament’s encouragement and support for our work on this important issue.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a european contract law is certainly likely to promote regulation of the internal market. but such a legal construct must be developed through a transparent and democratic process. the expected benefits for economic operators in terms of legal certainty and reduced transaction costs are closely linked to the clarity, predictability and stability of the rules. a european contract law must be based on the demands of the economic world in order to assess its needs. it should remove inconsistencies in the acquis communautaire on consumer rights, for example in terms of withdrawal periods or information to consumers. the draft texts currently being drawn up seem to be ambiguous, too detailed and do not really meet these objectives. would it not be more realistic, rather than embarking on the utopian path of currently drawing up a european civil code, a legal system, to draw up standard contracts or sectoral rules? however, the answers to the questions raised by this oral question should make it possible to better understand the content of the common reference code. the choice of the legal basis for an instrument dedicated to contract law must follow a political choice on these objectives and not precede it. it is therefore essential that the commission clarifies the objectives of the work that has been financed by the european budget since 2003 and puts the european parliament in a position to give its opinion on concrete proposals. it would be unthinkable to give companies the possibility of applying european contract law, as envisaged in the reflection chamber, in place of national directives and laws without parliament and the council having approved its content on the basis of a very thorough legal and economic impact study.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important report. i would remind you that all the amendments to the report were adopted unanimously at our june part-session, that we consider data protection to be closely linked to the vis and the sis ii, and that we therefore urgently need this instrument. we had a moral commitment from the council. the finnish presidency asks us to deal with this subject in the context of the debate on the future of the area of freedom, security and justice scheduled for the september ii session. as data protection is a political priority for our parliament, i would like the council to make a formal commitment to our assembly to the rapid adoption of the framework decision and to do its utmost to involve parliament in the discussions. i therefore ask my colleagues to defer the vote on this legislative resolution until the next partsession in september.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues josé albino silva peneda and proinsias de rossa on the european social model because it is crucial that our citizens feel that the construction of europe gives social meaning to our ambitions to build a humanist civilization. clearly, we have not done enough to ensure that our model of sustainable development, which combines economic growth, social ambition and respect for the environment, is coherent. this report contains some very interesting ideas which i support, but i am pleased that the european parliament has wisely rejected the proposal to legislate on services of general interest, because the current context is clearly not conducive to such an approach. i am convinced that a balanced and fair social model is a major element of the union's economic performance, and that, on the other hand, too much social will destroy economic growth and ultimately turn against social itself by not giving it the means of its existence, particularly in financial terms. in this case, let us be clear about the use we will make of the european union and not hide the realities from our fellow citizens, especially young people.
in writing. western europe has long been a model of economic and social success, based on prosperous agriculture, strong industry, dynamic and homogeneous peoples, and strong national states guaranteeing their citizens both freedom of enterprise and social protection. for twenty years, the europe of brussels without frontiers, with the complicity of our governments, has been giving our industries to competition from asian economies which practice social dumping, admitting over a million extra-european immigrants every year, practicing a veritable malthusianism against our farmers, dismantling our social protection systems and our family policies. a general social decline with more than 20 million unemployed, industrial disintegration, hundreds of thousands of hectares of land abandoned, european countries where there are more deaths than births, whole territories in the process of being lebanised. this is the record of the europe that the french and dutch peoples rejected last year in the referendums on the european constitution. only a europe of the homelands, founded on the principles which have made our civilization great - nation, family and freedom - will enable our continent to become a social model once again.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by john bowis on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on moving towards a mental health strategy in the european union. one in four people will experience a mental health problem in their lifetime and physical and mental weaknesses increase with age in relation to longer life expectancy. in a world that is becoming complex under the pressure of major, violent and rapid change, we have a collective challenge to understand, prevent and treat mental health issues while avoiding stigma, exclusion, or worse, disregard for people with mental illness. the european union must be an example in order to ensure that its citizens lead a mentally healthy life. i am proud to belong to a member state, france, which, under the leadership of president jacques chirac, has always pursued the most lucid, ambitious and, ultimately, humane policy on the treatment of mental disability.
in writing. the cfp no longer meets the expectations of mediterranean fishermen. that is why i welcome this plan, which has several positive aspects. this is a much-needed relief from the burdens and constraints on fishermen. the commission has also proposed that the community should be given the task of ensuring that the fisheries sector is not left behind. a closer association of the professionals in the definition of guidelines (management of fishing effort, control measures and limitation of catches), which joins a strong demand i make to the european parliament on behalf of the mediterranean fishermen. i also support the parliament's request to play its full part in denying the european commission the possibility of deciding on 'technical measures' alone. fishermen know all too well how much these 'technical measures' have a direct and immediate effect on their activity. i shall therefore vote in favour of this report, although i would have liked it to go further and call for a specific plan for fisheries in the mediterranean. i will continue to fight this battle in the european parliament, alongside the fishermen of my region.
in writing. plans are being drawn up, the european fisheries fund is replacing the ifop, the number of advisory committees is increasing, the community fisheries control agency is expanding its activities, but all this is not leading to an improvement in the professional situation of fishermen. european regulations are killing off the fisheries and french fishermen just as agricultural regulations are going to eliminate our farmers. two essential problems are not dealt with in this report, although they will ultimately determine whether or not the french fishing fleet is maintained: unfair competition from non-community fishing vessels which do not comply with all the regulatory, control and monitoring requirements imposed on our fishermen; the problem of fuel bills since brussels has asked france to abolish the fisheries hazard prevention fund or the diesel fund. simplifying the rules is certainly necessary but will not improve the situation of our fishermen. once again, the european commission is leading them astray, if i may say so. there are only 5,500 fishing vessels left. how many will be left in 2010 with the new common fisheries policy?
in writing. the european parliament votes today on two important fisheries agreements for the indian ocean: one with the republic of seychelles and the other with the republic of comoros. the objectives of these agreements, which are renewable for six and seven years respectively, are: economic, financial, technical and scientific cooperation in the field of fisheries; the fixing of conditions for access by community fishing vessels to seychelles and comoros territorial waters; the establishment of partnerships between undertakings for the purpose of developing, in the common interest, economic activities in the field of fisheries and related activities. a financial contribution will be paid to the seychelles and the comoros in return for the exploitation of their fisheries resources. as an overseas elected representative who is aware of the role of fisheries in the overseas economy, particularly in réunion, i welcome europe's contribution to the establishment of responsible fishing in the indian ocean and the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. that is why i voted in favour of both agreements.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by making a self-critical remark. who in this parliament raised the question of resolution 1552 a year ago? who in this parliament has raised the question of the disarmament of hezbollah? this issue needs to be discussed because it is at the heart of the current debate in israel. for three years, the israeli government has done nothing, said nothing in terms of disarming hezbollah. we have all been blind and we should at least admit that we have been wrong too. it should be noted, first, that we had, that the international community had a un resolution. once adopted, it disappeared into the nirvana of politics without ever being applied in the field. secondly - and this is a real problem - this region, which is the target of all the misfortunes, is also a region where one can make the greatest mistakes in politics. we are mistaken because we think that we have to be the ambassador of israel or palestine. what is the role of the european union today? i understand that some in the union are very attached to israel, and that is right. others are very attached to the palestinians, i understand that and it is right. but politics is not just about that. on the contrary, we must do everything possible to ensure that there is finally a palestinian and an israeli state where we can live in safety. to be a politician, you don't have to be a good soul or mother teresa, you have to be able to make this region politically move. that's the problem. that is why the european union is sending troops to the region. graham is right. some member states of the european union are sending troops. i woke up one morning, i had a dream. at a meeting of all the heads of state it was decided that the european contingent would be the largest in number, that it would be the european rapid reaction force, that it would no longer be composed of three quarters of frenchmen, two thirds of italians, one quarter of germans, but of europeans who, as such, would represent europe in this region. i know it's a dream, i know i'm a kid, but why not dream like that? as we are obliged to meet obligations, joschka fischer recently wrote in an article: "welcome in the reality". yes, we are in reality, now we have to make politics in this region. the reality is that the americans in the region are in iraq, where they are stuck; they are politically non-existent. apart from the european union, no other organization would have the capacity to make a difference and to see with the israelis how to negotiate the palestinian question. peace will prevail in israel only if there is a viable palestinian state. the best way to fight hamas is to do it through the palestinian state because hamas doesn't give a shit about the palestinian state. he wants an islamic space! that is why it must be stressed, firstly, that if we establish a palestinian state, we will diminish the influence of hamas. secondly, we must solve the problem of the borders with syria and the golan heights. we must ensure israel's access to water and guarantee its protection, but not through israeli occupation of the golan heights. the european union must use its influence to get negotiations started. today, when the european union is able to play a major political role, we will not only be responsible for the misery and failure, but we will be politically responsible for a region which is pacifying. when our children ask us what europe is for, we can proudly say to them: 'look at what we are doing in the middle east.' but to do that, we have to reach that goal! we must have the courage to tell all these governments that it is not italy, it is not france - although italy has been admirable - it is not england, it is europe as a whole that has been effective. in conclusion, i would like to draw attention to a debate which concerns germany. i'm sick of these political groups! graham watson, as a liberal, tell the german liberals that it is scandalous that they refuse the intervention force in the middle east! and you, wurtz, tell the german communists that what they are doing is scandalous, that it is counter-politics, while human beings are dying in the middle east and everyone wants to establish this intervention force. be brave politicians and intervene within your political camp! (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president-in-office, madam commissioner, what we have experienced this summer should be in every way totally inconceivable in our time. let us remember, first of all, that a state, israel, is shelling and starving the civilian population of gaza, is kidnapping ministers and members of parliament who are going to join the 8,000 palestinian prisoners already detained and is causing more than 200 deaths among the population of this small territory which has become, in the words of mr jan egeland - the un humanitarian coordinator - a ticking time bomb. the same army then crushed lebanon for 34 days, making no distinction between civilians and military targets, as human rights watch put it, causing the death of 1 100 civilians, forcing the displacement of a quarter of the population, imposing a total blockade on the country, deliberately targeting, kofi annan stressed, and killing international peacekeeping observers, destroying, according to the undp, 15 000 homes and 78 bridges, destroying the country's vital infrastructure, ports, airports, power stations, causing a giant black mark, using shells containing up to 644 explosive devices, of which 100 000 are continuously being used to kill women, men and children indiscriminately. secondly, a superpower, the united states, is supporting its ally's strategy in both palestine and lebanon in the name of the war on terrorism, already at work in iraq and afghanistan. a secretary of state compares the suffering of the lebanese people to the birth pangs of the new middle east. it has supplied israel with increasingly sophisticated weapons in the midst of the war and for more than a month of fierce fighting has refused to call for a ceasefire, despite the vehement demands of the lebanese government and the secretary-general of the united nations. thirdly, and finally, an institution which is particularly close to us, the council, has for a long time been unable to call for a ceasefire, despite the laudable attempt of the finnish presidency and the unanimous call for it by the conference of presidents of parliament. he even excuses the israeli army's behavior by invoking the right of self-defense. it was legitimate to condemn the initial capture of israeli soldiers by hezbollah, and especially its grave decision to respond to the bombing of lebanese cities by firing missiles at israeli cities, thus committing crimes against the civilian population, but the fact that israel was given the green light for many days to wage and continue this terrible war arouses astonishment and revolt. we cannot therefore be content today and in the period ahead to speak only of european contributions to unifil and reconstruction, as important as this dual challenge is. we must draw the lessons of this painful experience with clarity and responsibility, and first of all this: at the heart of all the convulsions in the middle east, which are becoming more and more dramatic for the people and more and more dangerous for international security, there is the occupation of the territories conquered in 1967 and israel's obstinacy in refusing to implement the relevant resolutions of the united nations security council. the european union has taken up this vital requirement for peace. what initiative has she taken to relaunch the quartet's road map? what has it done to promote the arab league's plan in 2002 which proposed normalising relations with israel in return for recognition of the palestinian state? what has it done to put the israeli leaders in their historical responsibilities? instead, it suspended aid to palestinian institutions, delegitimized a democratically elected government and parliament, shunned president mahmoud abbas's courageous efforts to rebuild national unity, and quietly accepted the closure of the only crossing points between gaza and the outside world that it officially controlled. i hope that the joint decisions of the last few days will be a sign of a reassessment of europe's attitude to the middle east as a whole. now it must permanently choose between the bush approach to the war on terrorism and a return to the fundamentals of international law. i think that a just and lasting peace in the middle east is at that price, as is europe's credibility in the world.
mr president, the united nations interim force in lebanon will be strengthened and the european union will play a major role in it. we have reason to be pleased. we must also be aware that, in order to be useful in such a difficult situation, the troops deployed must be respected, and for that they must be strong, that is to say, have the means adapted to their mission and have the right and the duty to use them not only in case of legitimate defence, that is to say, when their own soldiers are in danger, but when the mission can impose it in its spirit or in its letter. we learned this lesson in a dramatic way in the balkans. it's something we'll never forget. it should also not be forgotten that what all the peacemakers in lebanon, as in the whole of the middle east, are waiting for is not the un, which has been present for too long and has been condemned to impotence for too long, it is not france alone, it is not italy, it is the european union. you have said it correctly, mr president-in-office of the council. i am witnessing the effectiveness of the action taken in the last few weeks in the democratic republic of congo by the european force deployed there to complement the action of the un. without his presence, i think i can say - as you know, commissioner - that kinshasa would be in flames and blood today. i therefore ask the council and the commission to examine whether the organization of the european forces to be deployed in lebanon could be envisaged in a similar way, allowing the european union to do what is expected of it, namely to exercise its own responsibility where necessary. so if we are not just being self-serving, why, for example, not immediately deploy a european fleet off the lebanese coast? the existence of euromarfor would provide us with the means to do so. no, mr. cohn-bendit, you are not a dreamy kid, or i am even more of a kid and a dreamer than you.
mr president, since he is back in the chamber, i will tell mr cohn-bendit that i congratulate him on the rather warm speech we have just heard. i agree with him on almost everything, and at least on the main points, at the risk of surprising and upsetting him. it is obvious that there is no other solution than political. and this political solution is possible, beyond the despair of the extremists on both sides. there is despair in israeli politics today and the state of israel must be protected from itself. i think that this policy of forceful action by israel is a policy of flight, which in the long run puts its existence in danger and which concerns all those who are concerned about its security, as we are ourselves. we simply disagree on two points: no, europe will not impose this political solution because it is not unanimous in its support; it took more than three weeks - daniel cohn-bendit, you know - for the foreign ministers to meet after the bombings began, and that was to see their disagreements. we must stop dreaming of a policy based on yet another european army, a european navy or whatever. we disagree politically; the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council of ministers. at least as long as we follow washington's policy - and this is the other point on which i disagree with you - which is basically to favour the extremes of both sides and to destroy the geopolitical balance of the region. by destroying iraq, by stigmatizing syria, by forcing syria to withdraw from lebanon, which weakens it - the christians themselves realize this, even aoun - we have created the conditions for an imbalance and we are still reaping the fruit of this imbalance, which is war, which is the word given to the extremes, on both sides, the dominant and the dominated. i believe, unfortunately, that europe cannot impose this political solution. i see no other political power than france to do so.
mr president, woe to the country where communitarianism prevails over the authority of the state, and woe to the disarmed states. the poor martyr lebanon has just experienced this once again, providing the motive for a devastating and disproportionate intervention. the right to self-defence and the right to follow-up exist, but not the right to start an all-out war without negotiations, without ultimatums, without a declaration of war, without a prior referral to the security council. i am also afraid that this operation will be counterproductive for israel, which has not achieved its political objectives and which is now being opposed by all lebanese. the president of the council told us that the european ministers' meetings would have been held in a cordial atmosphere; what a relief! but these warm meetings did not stop the devastation of lebanon. we are now hearing about a european intervention, but, curiously, this involves only seven of the twenty-five member states. i should like to remind you that the intervention force in lebanon has been in existence for 28 years. my country, france, has paid a heavy price, but this force has been totally incapable of preventing the tragic events we have seen and, contrary to what the commissioner tells us, it has been totally powerless in the recent tragedy and has only provided a few additional targets for the israeli bombing. the settlement is based solely on the recognition of sovereign states with secure and recognized borders. we need a free, independent palestinian state, which has not existed for decades - something most of you are quite happy with. there can be no peace without it. the lebanese state, recently freed from syrian influence, must extend its authority over its entire territory. only then can israel also enjoy lasting peace. finally, as regards the participation of our fellow citizens in reconstruction, we are tired of paying to rebuild what others have demolished. let each one contribute to the reparation of the damage he has caused; the lebanese state for the damage caused by hezbollah in israel, and the israeli state for the damage caused in lebanon. the rule of law also requires that everyone be responsible.
mr president, the incidents of incredible violence that have taken place in lebanon this summer are very serious. we are witnessing an acceleration of history, and the ingredients that fuel conflict have never been more concentrated: more and more military technology, more and more fanaticism, more and more arrogance. in view of these deviations, we must consider with certainty that we are sitting on a time bomb which may eventually set the middle east on fire and hit europe. it is widely acknowledged that the constant surge in violence has now reached its limits and that international law must be respected. the urgent need today is to lift the blockade on lebanon, but the top priority is to resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict before it is too late. europe must speak up. it must give decisive importance to the construction of a euro-mediterranean area based on peace, development for all and dialogue between civilizations. the bureau of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, the sovereign assembly which brings together european parliamentarians, national parliamentarians from the 25 countries and parliamentarians from the 10 mediterranean countries, met in brussels on 24 august and decided to send a delegation to lebanon, israel and palestine. as chairman of the political affairs committee of this house, i will be heading this delegation from 18 september onwards, with the task of studying the conditions for the resumption of political dialogue. with this delegation, which brings together the two shores of the mediterranean, we want to lay the foundations for a new stage in a genuine euro-mediterranean partnership in which europe has a vital role to play. mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, the time has come.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the conflict in the summer of 2006 that bled lebanon, we agree that the european union has a historic opportunity to play a major role in the complex partition of the middle east. our roadmap has several objectives. first, to convince the international community and all the actors in the region that no violent solution - and i include the military solution - is viable to ensure lasting peace, stability and prosperity in the middle east, no more in lebanon, palestine or elsewhere. secondly, to be the main promoter of the establishment of a comprehensive political solution for the region, to make it clear that a separate settlement of the various regional conflicts does not make sense. in this connection, we are in favour of an international conference which must necessarily bring together all the regional actors, including iran and its difficult nuclear issue, including syria with which we will have to resume association negotiations, without renouncing our democratic demands. nor can we ignore indefinitely the political forces that have come to power in what we ourselves have considered democratic elections in palestine or lebanon. in the case of lebanon, we must resolutely commit ourselves to its reconstruction, to the immediate lifting of the embargo, to the rebuilding of the infrastructure, to the rebuilding of the destroyed houses, to the removal of the mines which daily threaten the security of the lebanese and render unsuitable for cultivation one third of the country's land. these are not just financial objectives but political objectives for the european union. let's not leave the reconstruction to hezbollah and other qataris. finally, i conclude, support the lebanese democrats and progressive political forces. let us support, as we did in the spring of 2005, the determination of the lebanese to seize their collective destiny. this summer, they showed their skills. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said, but i think that this resolution which is being put to the vote is well balanced. she presents the facts by qualifying them, but never by passing judgment, and thus avoids the pitfall of taking sides for one or the other of the protagonists. i regret that our resolution reduces the causes of the israeli-lebanese war to the israeli-palestinian conflict. we cannot go to the complicated east with simple ideas, said general de gaulle, and that is the message i also want to convey in a certain way. i wish, as we all do, for a resolution to the israeli-palestinian conflict, but do you really believe that this will resolve inter-lebanese tensions, stop syrian meddling and iranian ambitions? and will hezbollah be disarmed by that? it was the growing insecurity and suffering of the israeli population in the galilee that sparked the hostilities against hezbollah. this state of permanent threat has been fuelled not only by the israeli-palestinian conflict but also by hezbollah's incessant rocket fire into northern israel. israel's fears are all the greater as these hezbollah militias are armed by a powerful iran whose democratically elected president keeps declaring his will to wipe israel off the map, and this must now be taken seriously. what i do, for my part. i therefore think that the two causes should not be mixed up. in the north, lebanon is seeking to regain its sovereignty, to avoid interference from its various neighbours and, for israel, to ensure its security. the south is concerned with the creation of an independent palestinian state within secure borders, which can coexist peacefully with its neighbour israel.
madam commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, on the question of the handling of the conflict in the middle east, some representatives of the european institutions have recently called for a comprehensive and structural solution to the problems of the region. mr brok has recently said that one of the keys to lasting peace in lebanon is the disarmament of hezbollah and the monitoring of the syrian-lebanese border to stop arms trafficking. finally, one of my distinguished colleagues said that we are not the red cross and that we should play a positive political role. i agree with all of that. we cannot seriously consider a comprehensive solution without returning to the point which, since 1948, has been at the origin of all the conflicts that have bloodied this region: i am talking about the refusal to recognize the right of israel to exist. it is essential to bear this in mind, lest cause and effect be confused. today it is iran, syria, its proxy and hezbollah, its armed wing, that are carrying this message of hatred, throwing in the face of the international community their desire to wipe out a sovereign state and its people from the map of the world. we have a duty to provide humanitarian relief to the people who are being held hostage by the terrorist actions of hezbollah. our commitment must be balanced, so that we can play the positive political role that is ours. the balance does not lie in the unilateral and systematic stigmatisation of only one side of the conflict, in this case israel. the balance must necessarily be struck by the international responsibility of the war-makers, syria and iran. we owe it to two friendly states, lebanon and israel, and we owe it to two friendly peoples, the israeli and lebanese peoples, who only aspire to live in peace. i hope that the parliamentary mission which will soon visit the region will be a bearer of this concern for balance and will be able to contribute actively to the search for a peaceful solution among men of good will in the region, in order to affirm our intransigence towards intolerance, messages of hatred, while demonstrating our human fraternity.
lebanon, which had been in the throes of a thirty-four-day war, is once again the hostage and victim of a crisis that is bigger than itself. the european union will help the lebanese to rebuild their destroyed country and to get back on their feet and to return to a normal life: our emergency and humanitarian aid is indispensable. our role should go beyond urgency: the european union should be a full-fledged actor in the peace process in the middle east. by participating in unifil, several member states are engaging on the ground under the un banner and this is a right decision. but it is together - and as europeans - that we should intervene to enforce security council resolution 1701, help to free prisoners, get the blockade of lebanon lifted, support the demarcation of borders and restore political dialogue. in this crisis, the european union has shown that its intervention can change the course of events and help to resolve a conflict. the reality is that we have political responsibilities: it is time for us to make the reforms that the european union needs to be the political actor that its neighbours hope for and that we expect.
mr president, commissioner, china is now at the heart of the world economy. the european union, through its new trade strategy, must therefore build a balanced partnership. in view of the recent trade disputes, it is imperative that the european union enforce intellectual property rules and allow easy access to the chinese market. the emergence of china as an economic superpower is not without its obstacles, but it also opens up opportunities for the european union, provided that international trade rules are respected. it is not so much a question of avoiding the introduction of protectionist measures as of making china aware that as a full member of the wto it must respect the rules of a fair and balanced world market. in this sense, the establishment of anti-dumping procedures or safeguard measures, legal instruments of trade defence, is merely the manifestation of trade imbalances; it is not at all contrary to the challenge of a fairer globalisation. the new eu china strategy will have to protect itself against allegations and possible evidence of unfair competition and promote access to the chinese market for european producers and exporters. at the same time, in order to achieve a partnership based on balanced trade, europe will have to meet the challenge of competitiveness, technological progress and innovation. let us make sure, commissioner, that china needs us as much as we need it.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i take this opportunity to thank mr wallis very warmly for his report and also mr gargani for the question put this evening. the two issues are obviously linked and i confirm that i also strongly welcome the recommendation in mr wallis' report that the european parliament give its consent to the community's accession to the hague conference. i also agree with what mr wallis said in his introduction about the importance of the hague conference and the work done in the past years. it is clear, however, that the community's accession to the hague conference will enable it to achieve a status that is really commensurate with its new role as a major player on the international scene, and therefore as an actor which needs to participate concretely and formally in the activities of the hague conference. this will allow for greater coherence, i might say greater consistency, between the rules that exist in the community, in the european union, and the international instruments that are being prepared. this need for greater consistency justifies and allows the community to join the hague conference formally. as all honourable members know, following the assent given by the european parliament, the formal accession of the community to the hague conference will be possible as soon as two-thirds of the signatory states to the conference have approved the amendments to the statute. i think i can tell you that this particularly large majority will be reached by the end of this year, quite soon. some member states have not yet taken a decision, but i am confident that they will do so by december of this year. mr wallis and mr gargani also raise the question of the role of parliament after the community's formal accession to the hague conference. i can tell you that i am personally and institutionally committed to ensuring full cooperation with parliament, even after the hague conference has been acceded to. we all know that the framework agreement on relations between the commission and the european parliament has recently been amended: it clearly allows parliament to be involved, even formally, in the negotiation of international conventions in areas of community competence, and this is certainly a matter for the community. i can assure mrs wallis and the members that parliament will be kept fully informed of the negotiations and that parliament will be involved in the delegations and in the negotiations. mr wallis knows this well, and i fully agree with him, that in the delegations it is certainly possible to envisage the inclusion of members of parliament in the formal delegation. i am convinced that this is a possibility and that it will become a reality when the community has formally acceded to the hague conference.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the community's accession to the hague conference on international law is certainly a good thing. the community will thus be able to play an active part in defining the priorities of the conference and ensuring that they are properly linked to the commission's work programme. however, it is necessary to provide for accompanying measures now so that the civil justice area is not diluted and retains the strong characteristics we have, a strengthened political solidarity within the framework of a community of values, the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions, the construction of an integrated internal market. accompanying measures could be the definition of the mandate by the council and parliament in matters falling within the scope of co-decision, the production of legal and economic impact assessments at the beginning of negotiations, and systematic consideration of the advisability of inserting disconnection clauses in draft conventions. like our rapporteur, whom i congratulate, i believe that parliament should be consulted on the definition of the priorities for the work programme of the conference and on the draft conventions. the principle should not be that the community should adhere systematically to all existing conventions. such accession to existing conventions must be examined on a case-by-case basis by the council and the european parliament.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all, of course, i would like to give my full support on behalf of my group to the report by my colleague, sophie in't veld. we want a two-pronged strategy: an interim agreement before 30 september, to ensure continuity and to avoid inconveniencing european citizens travelling to the united states, and the negotiation of a new agreement on better terms at the review initially planned for 2007. two times, then. however, the agreement concluded before the end of the month should not be negotiated hastily. mr frattini proposes that we retain the same text, changing only the legal basis denounced by the court. we can only accept it on two conditions. firstly, the european parliament must be fully informed of the discussions with the americans and must be politically involved. the national parliaments must also be informed. secondly, we must be sure that all the commitments will be respected and implemented by the us authorities. i am thinking in particular of the possibility of moving from the pull system to the push system, as provided for in the declaration of commitment 13, and of the introduction of legal remedies in the event of abuse, as provided for in the agreements with australia and canada. in the longer term, the new 2007 agreement should offer european citizens the same level of privacy protection as in europe, and that is the least. finally, at the informal summit in london, mr frattini made several concrete proposals for a european pnr and a biometric positive profiling system on a voluntary basis. i would like to know what the exact status of this summit is, where important proposals were discussed without parliament being informed. as regards a possible european pnr, it is clear that we cannot accept proposals which circumvent community and national legislation on the protection of citizens' personal data. nor can we accept a procedure which bypasses the democratic role and function of national parliaments in this area. i would also like to point out that the commission's proposals on these matters cannot be accepted without the adoption of the framework decision on data protection in the context of the third pillar. my colleague, sophie in't veld, has mentioned it, and it is an aspect we do not lose sight of.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all those who have made a significant contribution to this debate, but there is one first question which i would like to put to the attention of all of you, with the sincerity due to this parliament. in some of the speeches i have heard, there has been a frank misreading of the court of justice's judgment which has de facto put the problem of the agreement on the table. i've heard some people cite that ruling as a victory. that ruling threw out the deal: someone said exactly that. ladies and gentlemen, that judgment was a great defeat for the community interest, it was a great defeat for this parliament and for the european commission: that judgment held that the matter did not fall within the scope of community law; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is the presidency which is conducting the negotiations. i would like to say that the privacy directive does not apply to that matter, mr cappato - it does not apply, whether we like it or not - but that judgment must be respected even if it was a defeat for all of us! we have to be frank, we can't say thanks to the ruling that the deal fell through. that ruling, as mr alvaro said, has taken us backwards in the community interest! this is the basis on which we are moving. of course, when we talk about a deal to be concluded quickly, by 30 september, and then to negotiate another agreement with the united states of america by 2007; we must follow the real, true and pragmatic vision now put forward by mr cashman. the real problem is that if there is no agreement, millions of european citizens will accept a reduction in their data protection safeguards in order to continue flying to the united states of america. they will be forced to do so by means of an individual declaration and europe will have lost any power to protect them at an adequate level. the real problem is this: we cannot think of blaming the united states of america, each and every one of us who has tried to do our duty. there is an interpretation given by the court: i personally disapprove of that interpretation, but i have a duty to respect it and to enforce it. i must also say with all sincerity that if there is to be an agreement, the protection of the individual rights of our citizens will at least not be left to the discretion of a single airline, the bilateral negotiation between the united states and the individual airlines will reduce the level of protection, it will certainly not increase it. that is the realistic view, the one we must start with. the second point - and i agree with mr cashman and mr coelho again - is that our problem is certainly not the united states but the terrorists. the threat of terrorism is real: what happened in london this summer did not result in a semi-clandestine or semi-informal meeting of home ministers with the european commission. we were informed - i will speak later about parliament's information - of what could happen in the united kingdom and we noted with concern that the threat was real and obvious. of course, when we witness a major operation by the police and security services of denmark, just a few days ago, we are convinced that the danger and the threat are real and loom on the territory of the european union. what's the matter? we need more cooperation between us, between the member states of the european union, we need more cooperation between the institutions of the european union. that is why i said in my introduction that parliament will be informed, politically informed, even if, because of the 'legal basis' (i use the quotation marks on purpose), it cannot be institutionally and legally co-decision-making, but it will be politically informed by the european commission and there is also a need for stronger cooperation with the united states of america. we must now work together more, not less, on a level playing field, of course, and the european union is proud to stand by this principle, and i particularly agree with mr roure, who referred to the national parliaments. you see, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to conclude the negotiations - the negotiations are two-sided and we start them tomorrow, i cannot say whether the negotiations will be concluded, i hope so - in any case we will need it to enter into force immediately, even pending certain ratification procedures which in some countries, as mr alvaro mentioned, will take time. since we are going to invoke a rule in the treaties which provides for immediate entry into force, otherwise it would be all for nothing, it is right that the national parliaments should be informed now in the same way as we will inform the european parliament, since many of them will be asked to intervene when the temporary and immediate implementation of the agreement has already begun. it is also a matter of cooperation and, as you know, the european commission shares this in principle. the third and final conclusion is: what are the points that need to be worked on, i would say in the next few days if not weeks? the first is to persuade the council - and we shall start doing so at the council next month - to adopt the framework decision on the protection of personal data. i would like to make a further appeal to the council, when the next council of ministers in the coming weeks will discuss the matter of the framework decision once again, to remove the reservations of some countries and finally to present a document demonstrating the european union's willingness to guarantee the protection of citizens' personal data. the second objective to be achieved in a very short time is the implementation of what the rapporteur, whom i thank, has called the 'push' system, on which i can give some detailed information. some technical service companies assisting the largest european airlines have already presented the technical solutions available to put the push system into practice. some of them - i can only mention a few of them, british, air france, iberia, lufthansa, alitalia and klm, in fact almost all of them - have submitted concrete proposals to the relevant offices of the american administration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. technically there is already a proposal, it has been tabled and in some cases even formalised. this is recent information at my disposal, and it shows how we are moving in the direction we all want. the other point is positive profiling. mr roure asked for a general report on the london meeting, and i shall be happy to give it to the libe committee next week, where i shall be much more detailed. positive profiling is an initiative that was not born today or yesterday, but a few months ago. this initiative is aimed at identifying accelerated border control procedures at airports and covers two elements: the first, which is reserved for international flights only, does not concern the exchange of data for internal european flights, where we would have insurmountable problems of freedom of movement, schengen area, etc. the system covers international flights from the european union to the european union, via the european union, only for travellers who voluntarily and individually agree to provide their data, especially biometric data, and in return benefit from an automatic identification lane which will obviously take less time for checks. the basis is individual and voluntary, with biometric data. why do we think of such a system? to avoid what has been said about negative profiling, that is, those on ethnic or religious grounds. of course, we cannot accept any such mechanism in this area, but we can imagine, since the council has asked for it, that on a voluntary basis each of us could provide a database which respects confidentiality with his biometric data and in return speed up the boarding procedures. think about frequent travelers, it's a mechanism that we're studying, and we're thinking about putting a proposal in a few months, maybe by the end of the year. i would like to conclude by saying that i will be happy to inform the libe committee of what was said in london on the procedures for strengthening the search for explosives, particularly liquids, on the use of the internet, on positive profiling and all the rest.
the next item is the report by mr nikolaos sifunakis, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the protection of europe's natural, architectural and cultural heritage in rural and island regions (2006/2050 (ini)) (a6-0260/2006).
the commission's vice-president mr president, i should first like to thank all those who have made a significant contribution to this debate, in the form of ideas and suggestions which are really interesting, and i shall inform mr figel of this. i would like to come back to just two points: the financing of the culture 2000 project and the proposal, put forward by the rapporteur in particular, to make 2009 the european year of cultural heritage. on the first point, as you know much better than i do, the culture 2000 project, which had a budget of 167 million euros, will now receive 400 million euros. the budget is therefore being increased substantially, thanks to the contribution and political support of the european parliament. as regards the second question concerning the european year, the commission takes the proposal that has been made very seriously and we will assess it in the context of our objectives and priority plans for the coming years. this proposal deserves careful analysis. i would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that my colleague, mr ján figel, recently made an important proposal to make 2008 the year of intercultural dialogue, which the commission has adopted. i hope that parliament's opinion will be in the same vein. however, as i have said, i will inform mr figel' of the outcome of this debate, in the spirit of constructive cooperation between the commission and parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. pending the vote and resumed at 12 noon) the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details, see minutes)
we shall not reopen the debate and we shall continue the vote. - after the vote on the motion for a resolution as a whole, the president. mrs muscardini, on which rule of the rules of procedure do you wish to comment?
i'll take that under advisement, mrs. muscardini.
i have other requests for comment, but i would not like to reopen the debate. that said, if i understand correctly, mr schulz will be presenting an oral amendment at the appropriate time. the assembly will then be able to take a decision and everyone will be able to express his opinion by voting. - before the vote on amendment no 5
in writing. by joining the hague conference on private international law, whose mandate is to work towards the 'progressive unification' of the rules of private international law, parliament is taking a realistic step towards the harmonisation of the legal rules specific to each member state. there are two ways of achieving legal harmonization. the one advocated by the fanatical euro-federalists, which consists in bindingly standardizing the substantive rules of law in each of the twenty-five member states. the second is that it satisfies both the fundamental requirement of legal certainty and effectiveness, which consists in unifying only the rules of conflict of laws and jurisdiction, that is to say, in determining both the competent court and the national law applicable to a legal relationship. in this logic, the states preserve their own legal rules, systems and traditions, but the uncertainties which may arise from the application and confrontation of national laws in different territories of the union are very significantly reduced. we therefore give a favourable opinion on the report and on the european community's accession to the hague conference.
in writing. mr belder's report is intended to be exhaustive on all the violations committed by the people's republic of china, both with regard to its international trade commitments to the wto (dumping of all kinds, counterfeiting and piracy, obstacles to access to the chinese market for its trading partners, etc.) and with regard to human rights. on the latter point, the litany is long: concentration camps (laogaïs), forced labour, trafficking in organs of executed prisoners, religious persecution, especially of catholic minorities, tibetan martyrs... what is surprising is that the belder report manages to deplore these situations without ever mentioning that china is a communist country, a marxist dictatorship, claiming, politically, the most murderous ideology of the 20th century. more surprisingly - but is it really surprising in this house? - the report does not conclude with a call for sanctions, not even a condemnation, but with the need for a free, competitive and transparent market in china! i am sure that in the europe you are preparing for us, money will always be more important than men.
in writing. in my speech to the plenary on 6 september, i called for a balanced assessment of the situation before, during and after the israeli-lebanese conflict, its consequences for the people concerned and the future of the region. the joint motion for a resolution does not seem to me to meet this balance requirement, in view of, inter alia, recitals a and b and paragraphs 17, 20 and 25. as a result, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution tabled by six political groups on forests and floods. first of all, i am glad that, in addition to the fires, the floods have been added to the original text. in the background, it is clear that over time the increasing scale of natural disasters and other disturbances affecting territories and populations sometimes exceeds the capacity of some member states to deal with them and calls for action by the european union. the european union does not appear to be sufficiently involved in dealing with these problems and i regret that the resolution does not support clearly and more firmly the idea of creating a european civil security force. it is not a question of recruiting civil security officials but of having a high-level european staff with the power to coordinate certain civil security forces in the territory of the union, and this at the request of a member state which cannot cope with a specific situation.
in writing. at the geneva session in june 2006, europe was flexible to the point of submission in the wto trade negotiations. after agreeing in hong kong on 18 december 2005 to abandon our refunds on agricultural export aids, from 2013 onwards peter mandelson, our commissioner, head of negotiations, gave the royal gift in geneva for a global agreement to be reached: the reduction of up to 50% of the customs protection of our agricultural market. but brazil, which has presidential elections, and the united states, which has congressional elections, have not taken the slightest risk: to reduce their domestic aid to the united states, to open their industrial market to brazil. the negotiations will eventually resume, but we already know that the european commission has given in on export aid and on the protection of our agriculture and wine against social dumping by third countries, where multinationals produce without labour and social rights. the solution for 2007 and to break the deadlock is to have the imagination to invent modulable, refundable and subsidisable customs duties, that is to say, deductible customs duties.
in writing. the french press has published several reports in recent months on the damage to the economy caused by counterfeiting of products and brands. this is evidence that, with globalisation, this phenomenon is taking on very worrying proportions, of which the public authorities and citizens are becoming increasingly aware. it is estimated that 100 000 jobs are lost in europe as a result of the manufacture and distribution of counterfeit products. but beyond the protection of intellectual property, the consequences can also be dramatic for health. this is the case with counterfeit medicines and vaccines, which endanger the lives of millions, especially in developing countries, and especially in africa. consumer protection is an important task of the european union. the commission must therefore harmonise and strengthen its legislation to combat this scourge of alarming proportions. it should also help to strengthen regulation in third countries. i therefore voted with great interest in the resolution on the counterfeiting of medicines.
mr president, we are witnessing a somewhat contradictory approach in this parliament today. on the one hand we have a report by mrs wallis, which proposes that we join the hague conference to unify the rules on conflict of laws, which seems to me to be an excellent step. and on the other hand, we have this tendency to want to unify the basic rule of the european contract. i think the first approach is the right one, while the second is much more questionable. as regards the european contract, it seems to me that it would be sufficient to decide, for example, that the applicable law is the law chosen by the parties, and if they have not chosen an applicable law, that the applicable law is the law of the place where the contract was concluded and, finally, if the contract was concluded between parties who are in different places, that the law applicable to the contract is that of the place of its performance. the very simple wording of this rule would suffice to meet the legitimate need for legal certainty without necessarily having to unify the internal law of each member state in a somewhat arbitrary and authoritarian manner.
in writing. i would like to commend the outstanding work of my colleague, mr sifunakis, on the protection of europe's cultural, natural and architectural heritage in rural and island areas. as a member of a rural region whose natural heritage is preserved, whose ancient architectural heritage is preserved and whose rich cultural heritage is preserved, i appreciate the importance of this report. i also believe that the multifaceted and strongly identity-based heritage of our rural and island regions is what makes them so special and rich. i fully agree with the report's recommendations on appropriate measures to protect, rehabilitate and enhance small traditional habitats. the necessary resources must be mobilised from the structural funds, from own resources for the environment and from national resources. all european initiatives such as the 'european union prize for cultural heritage' and the 'european heritage days' should be encouraged and better known in order to enhance the diversity and richness of europe's heritage, a factor of social cohesion. i also think that more attention should be paid to the preservation and transmission of the regional languages, dialects and dialects of our countryside and islands, which are also part of our heritage.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we have taken over an idea from your reform proposals, namely that parliament should be more up-to-date and not always discuss particular events four years after the fact. we have two crucial things in europe in recent weeks: one is known in germany as "old meat", which means that rotting meat has been found in various regions of the federal republic of germany and now in other countries as well. and then we would like to know from the commission and the council what is actually being done to check that this does not spread throughout europe. it seems to be a phenomenon that is spreading so fast that the authorities are not in a position to investigate it. secondly, we are faced with the very disturbing fact that genetically modified rice has been found all over europe, even though it is banned. we are also asking the commission to tell us what it is doing now, and not to discuss in a few months what it will be doing in three or four years. we want to know what action is being taken against these two abuses. we have therefore put a written request and want this to be discussed in parliament at this strasbourg meeting by means of a statement from the commission and the council. (applause from the centre)
the agenda calls for the joint debate on the following reports: the report by holger krahmer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on ambient air quality and clean air for europe (com ((2005) 0447 c60356/2005 2005/0183/cod)) (a60234/2006), and the report by dorette corbey, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the thematic strategy on air pollution (2006/2060 (ini)) (a60235/2006).
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the two rapporteurs and congratulate them on their extremely diligent work, mrs corbey, rapporteur for the report on the thematic strategy on air pollution, and mr krahmer, rapporteur for the proposal for a directive on air quality and cleaner air in europe. i would also like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in particular for its efforts so far. air pollution is and will remain one of the most important public health problems. because of this pollution, life expectancy in the european union today is 8.5 months shorter. the quality of life of hundreds of thousands of people is being degraded every day and the natural environment is at risk, despite the significant reductions in emissions in recent years. we must intensify our efforts. the strategy we are proposing sets out the steps we must take in this direction. it sets new, groundbreaking goals for health and the environment. measures on small particulate matter will result in a reduction in expected premature deaths from around 350,000 today to 160,000 in 2020. this will be the result of the combined implementation of the strategy and other measures already agreed. as regards the natural environment, we expect the area of ecosystems threatened by acidification to decline by more than 50% and the area of ecosystems threatened by the presence of excess nitrogen by more than 30%. these are ambitious targets, and their achievement will bring multiple environmental benefits. the strategy must of course be implemented effectively. the commission is committed to proposing measures at european union level to improve air quality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution. the air strategy describes some of the relevant community measures. the commission has already put forward a proposal to reduce emissions from passenger cars and vans - often referred to as the euro v proposal - and the committee on the environment has recently adopted its draft report. the euro vi proposal for cars and vans is expected to follow. other proposals will be made for euro vi lorries and buses and the directive on national emission ceilings will also be revised, setting new emission limits for member states. in due course other measures will follow for small-scale combustion and agriculture. all these measures are being prepared today and will of course be evaluated in detail in accordance with the principles of better regulation. one of the main elements of the strategy is the proposed revision of the current legislation on air quality. the proposal maintains the existing limit values for air quality. the official data of the world health organisation clearly confirm that these limit values are necessary. the proposal introduces, for the first time, binding limits for fine particulate matter (pm2.5), i.e. particles with a diameter of less than 2.5 millionths of a meter. the science is unanimous that these particles have serious public health implications. maximum permitted concentration limits are proposed to apply from 2010. the proposal will also oblige member states to start monitoring these fine particles in all european countries. also take measures to reduce the average levels of exposure to particulate matter in the population. the adoption of these proposals should not be delayed. the health effects are very serious and the evidence is overwhelming. in the united states, pm2.5 targets have been in place since 1995. the data contained in the impact study of this proposal demonstrate that the approach to reducing exposure to particulate matter that we propose will benefit more people at a lower cost than the lower limit for pm2.5 proposed by parliament. the commission proposal also gives member states greater flexibility in complying with the existing air quality limit values. uncontrolled natural sources of pollution shall not be taken into account. more time will also be given in cases where member states face severe compliance problems. these extensions of time must be as short as possible in order to protect the health of our fellow citizens and not to injure member states which have made serious and credible efforts to comply. i shall refer very shortly to some of the main amendments proposed by parliament: as regards the possibility of time extensions, the commission proposed an additional five years from the date of entry into force of the limit values, i.e. a lower ceiling until the end of 2009 combined with the possibility of excluding pollution from natural sources. with these facilities the member states will clearly be able to comply with the directive. the committee on the environment has proposed two five-year periods from the entry into force of the new directive. the proposal would delay compliance until 2018 for limit values already agreed in 1999. this cannot be accepted. the new amendment tabled before this plenary session - amendment no 81 - is in the right direction but again cannot be accepted because if we accept the four plus two years from the entry into force of the new directive we will delay compliance until the year 2013 for the pm10 limit values already agreed in 1999. the member states have known these limits since 1999. in accordance with the council and parliament's decision on the sixth environment action programme, the commission has asked the experts of the world health organisation to advise on whether the limit values currently in force for air quality should be changed. their answer was no. the commission cannot therefore accept any weakening of the daily limit value for pm10. amendments nos 46 and 81 increase the number of days allowed for exceeding the limit from 35 to 55. if these amendments were accepted, then on the basis of 2004 data, air pollution measures would no longer be required in cities such as vienna, frankfurt, brno, stuttgart and others. the key question is: how can the health of the citizens be better served? weaken the daily limit value or take measures to deal with the pollution problem? the amendment which weakens the limit values if no new community pollution reduction measures have been taken beforehand cannot also be accepted. it is contrary to the right of initiative of the institutions. it is also not practical because it is impossible to predict the outcome of measures which have not yet been proposed. in this case too, the citizens' right to cleaner air would be undermined. i think i should finish here.
thank you very much, colleague. you do present me with a slight problem, though. your speech was very interesting - i think the whole house can attest to that - but you exceeded your speaking time by two minutes and ten seconds. understand that i cannot be as generous to all my colleagues. i would like to apologize in advance and i hope that everyone will try to respect their speaking time. you were the first parliamentary speaker of the session, so we will say that it was a courtesy of the presidency.
i am very moved to be here today, mr jonas sjöstedt. i am sure you will agree, and i speak on behalf of all our colleagues, that we are very pleased with your participation in all our debates. you have been a member of this parliament for a very long time, a very popular member, far beyond your group, i can attest to that. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to combat air pollution effectively and achieve results in the field of health, we must adopt far more ambitious plans here. the bad excuse of the difficulties some member states have in implementing environmental legislation is no longer acceptable, because health is no longer negotiable. the cost of air pollution-related diseases is increasing day by day. but at present, the community is paying the health bill, because the cost of health is still not included in our economic calculations. in fact, some economists believe that the price of a gallon of oil should be raised from $3 to $10 to offset the health costs and the costs of climate change. that would be a game-changer. the union must not weaken itself, commissioner, in environmental policy, which it would tend to do by the insidious game of simplifying and concentrating european legal texts. the green group therefore calls for more stringent approaches, particularly for pm 2.5, and for the derogations to be abolished. the ecological disaster which threatens us, ladies and gentlemen, calls for drastic measures and the example comes to us for the first time from across the atlantic, where the state of california is provoking reflection by bringing a complaint against the largest car manufacturers for damage to the environment and damage to public health. finally, a few words to our dear friend jonas. i think we will miss your report to the environment committee, but we wish you well on the other side of the border, on the other side of the european union. it also carries the message of conservation. thank you, man.
mr president, commissioner, air quality is one of the keys to successful sustainable development. our citizens know the impact that this air quality can have on their health. they are rightly concerned when a school is located near a busy intersection. parents ask for air quality measurements to be taken because they want to know what air their children are breathing. the krahmer report is useful in that it brings together different texts into a single directive. this should allow us to improve our approach to the problem. so we want to be ambitious on this air quality issue. but to know the quality of the air, we must first measure it. this requires the use of structures that are as close as possible to the field and that know the geography of the area under study: these are the local networks. we know that the movement of pollution from the wind interferes. we also know the role of the mountain ranges. pollution travels and reaches territories that are not themselves sources of pollution. contrary to what is stated in the explanatory memorandum, high levels of air pollution are not always found in urban areas with a high population density. but for this european policy to be visible, it must first of all be coherent and be part of an integrated approach to combating climate change. it is not enough to set limit measures. you also have to know what you're going to do with it. the fight against co2 is at the heart of the proposed measures. let me refer to the regulation on motor vehicle emissions, the euro 5 regulation. we already know the consequences of its application. if we are reducing emissions, we are also increasing co2 emissions, which, as we know, are the cause of climate change. so there's a lot of contradiction in all of this. so we need to be flexible. it is pointless to decide on strict measures if they cannot be applied in the member states. so you have to give yourself the time. i believe in prevention through urban mobility planning and the development of clean technologies. in any case, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for the compromise they have found, which i think is good.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr hegyi, on the work he has done. we have a report here that asks the right questions and suggests the right answers. the report stresses the need for coherence and concertation, what some call the 'integrated approach', which is echoed in the european commission's communication. a comprehensive view is needed to better understand the challenge of the urban environment, particularly in social, cultural and environmental terms. i agree with the emphasis in this report on a number of fundamental points: exchanging good practice and promoting the training of local actors, controlling the growing volume of traffic and breaking the correlation between transport growth and gdp growth, encouraging energy savings and improving the energy efficiency of buildings, imposing the implementation of sustainable urban management programmes and sustainable urban transport programmes for any agglomeration of more than 100 000 inhabitants and, finally, proposing a target for the per capita area of green space in new urban developments. i think we must, however, strike a balance between giving directions to the member states and giving initiative to local actors, because they are a breeding ground for innovation, being the first to face the urban reality. in fact, our aim should be to create a framework that will encourage local initiatives by leaving the choice of objectives and solutions to local decision-makers.
mr president, i would like to thank mr marcus ferber for his excellent way of conducting supplementary work in a context which was not only legally complicated but also quite often turbulent. i would of course like to thank the committee on budgetary control for having carried out its investigations to bring some clarity to our debate. i too deeply regret the clumsiness with which the city of strasbourg has handled this matter, but i can learn two lessons from it. one is the way our parliament works: in the future, as the rapporteur points out, we will have to monitor more closely the legal status of our contracts, even when they are complex. the second teaching is more substantive and political in nature. it is still about the landfill, however. i hope that the adoption of the discharge will put an end once and for all to the constant attempts to reverse the cost of the siege of strasbourg, which is determined by the treaties and by the wisdom of the heads of state, as marcus ferber has reminded us. if we fail to do so, i propose two solutions: either we return all the institutions to the european parliament, which is the democratic body par excellence, and then we will have only one seat, to use the words of one of our colleagues; or we will have to return all the institutions to the european parliament, which is the democratic body par excellence, and then we will have only one seat, to use the words of one of our colleagues; or we will have to return all the institutions to the european parliament, which is the democratic body par excellence, and then we will have only one seat, to use the words of one of our colleagues; or we will have to return all the institutions to the european parliament, which is the democratic body par excellence, and then we will have only one seat, to use the words of one of our colleagues; or we will have to return all the institutions to the european parliament, which is the democratic body par excellence, and then we will have only one seat, to use the words of one of our colleagues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
we will inform him of this request. i simply point out that, at the very moment when we are sitting here, the bureau is sitting on its side, under the chairmanship of the president of parliament. that's the explanation i can give you. the president of parliament does not have the gift of ubiquity, he is not like fregoli, omnipresent. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the agenda calls for the report by christa prets, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a european parliament and council recommendation on transnational mobility in the community for the purposes of education and training: european quality charter for mobility (com ((2005) 0450 c6-0291/2005 2005/0179 cod)) (a60255/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by helga trüpel, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a european parliament and council recommendation on key competences for lifelong learning (com (2005) 0548 - c6-0375/2005 - 2005/0221 (cod)) (a6-0262/2006).
member of the commission. i would like to really appreciate the atmosphere and the clear consensus that we need to invest more and better in education. this agenda, this recommendation on key competences, is about how to use the same resources more efficiently to get better results. last year, six million students in the european union left school early. it's a huge number. i think that this one number alone is enough to get us to focus more on how and what is taught, what is the content of the curriculum, and to improve the supply, because our schools often produce fresh unemployed youth. just a few notes for reflection. it is precisely this concept of key competences that represents a balance and a single area for economic competitiveness, but also for social cohesion and social responsibility. the same can be said of the very important relationship between the humanities and the natural sciences. both are necessary. i think it's in the core competencies. as mrs doris pack said, for many countries this serves as a basis for reform: in the western balkans, but also in the new member states, even in the old ones. it's good that we can inspire and somehow link the process and progress towards the modernization of the educational content. i would also like to emphasize what mrs harkin said, that one key competency is to learn to learn, not to expect everything to be encyclopedically learned in school, but to be able to deal with information, with experience, with an environment that is increasingly complex and increasingly global. in addition, cultural perception and expression, as well as interpersonal and intersocial relationships, are very important for the formation of personality and mature citizens. i would therefore like to thank mrs helge trüpel once again for the very well prepared committee position. i believe that will be reflected in the vote. i look forward to further progress in the implementation of key competences and competencies. it's a process. (applause) thank you very much.
in the current context of globalisation, the complex and multifaceted world of work, which is subject to rapid change, is a source of insecurity and anxiety. the new ways of working, producing, innovating and exchanging require workers to constantly challenge their knowledge and know-how. to reconcile these increasingly difficult economic objectives with our humanistic view of work, there is a broad consensus that lifelong learning, a principle enshrined in most of our national rights, is the right way to go. official injunctions, including european ones, are already numerous. but we must not be content with the slogan. we are still far from having achieved practical application and systematization. lifelong learning is too often either a legal obligation to which companies are subject without any real reflection on the added value of these actions, and without any real long-term policy; or an incantation invoked in an emergency to respond to social difficulties. thus, work must now be done at national and local level to develop effective learning structures and real commitment from employers and employees.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the european qualifications framework, the union is equipped with a tool that can be improved, but which is essential for developing mobility in the european union. the mobility of european businesses and citizens is in fact opening up a new labour market at community level. for all european workers, whether engineers, technicians or manual workers, vocational qualifications are the only real guarantee of their value on the labour market, at national and community level. the single currency, the euro, which guarantees the fluidity and community integration of the economy, and the common value of vocational qualifications recognised on the european labour market are needed. this recognition of the common value of vocational qualifications is necessary both for enterprises and for employees. for companies, the qualification guarantees the level of competence, suitability for the job; the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the european social fund. whatever our national traditions, certification always validates a capacity to occupy a job and to implement the necessary skills for this purpose. this ability is the result of knowledge acquired, either through training or through professional experience. i would like to emphasize the progress made in some of our member states in validating the experience gained in training, as has been said. the european qualifications framework will eventually have to integrate this process and be open to all forms of recognition. the next step will be to anticipate this process now and involve the social partners to ensure that the eqf is reflected in collective agreements and conventions, so that a real social guarantee is linked to a fluid labour market. the real value of work, mr president, is written in the employment contract and on the pay slip.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciated the speech by president barroso. i appreciated his protest of intention regarding the presentation of one or more legislative texts - one or more, we will come back to this in a moment - in codecision, and the four principles he mentioned. i think these principles were important to remember. the committee on economic and monetary affairs rejected, when we proposed it, the mere recall of the wording of article 122 of the constitutional treaty and, worse, the mere wording of article 86 of the present treaty. the article, as you have mentioned, provides that in the event of a conflict between the market and the requirements of public service, in law and in fact, the latter must prevail. i think it is extremely important that parliament's text reaffirms what we had already voted for at the time of the constitutional treaty, namely the text of article 122, and confirms that we still believe in at least article 86 of the current treaty. what we would like is to go much further in the certainty of what the vote that is to take place will entail. if there is one point on which i agree with mrs in't veld, it is that we can take from mr rapkay's very judiciously calculated diplomatic phrase on the need to legislate both one and the other. we will then ask you, under both the amsterdam treaty and the interinstitutional agreement, to submit a draft directive to us on behalf of the right of legislative initiative which has been granted to this parliament. and we agree with the four principles you have outlined. if we disagree with mrs in't veld, it is precisely on the point of subsidiarity. i see a terrible mistake in the desire to talk about pure and simple subsidiarity, when, in the absence of a specific gis directive, the services directive applies. we have seen, day by day, week by week, the content, the limits of the scope of the services directive constantly changing. at one time, social housing was included. then he was almost expelled from the congregation, only to be reinstated, but only partially. it is enough to compare the text of our parliament with that of your commission and that of the council to see that there is no agreement on the area of public services covered by the services directive. we need legislation today to clarify things.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, mr president of the commission, the general interest, the public good, the common good, public services are all essential references which, as you said, mr president of the commission, are at the heart of the debate on the concept of the european social model. we are touching people's daily lives, their perception of the future, their conception of society. fundamental values are at stake, such as equality, solidarity and democracy. these are too important issues to be left to vague definitions or to be compromised by a lame compromise. my group particularly emphasizes three points which need to be clarified. firstly, the relationship between public services and the rules governing the internal market: competition, public procurement, state aid, not to mention the powers of the commission and the court of justice to monitor and sanction alleged abuses. we believe that we need a radically new legal basis which allows the public service to exist in europe outside the logic of the market. it is true that, as mr barroso and mr lipietz have pointed out, the treaty recognises that in the event of a conflict between the rules of competition and the public service remit, the latter prevail. it also recognises that states have the right to define the general interest, but it is the commission, and ultimately the court, which decides the limits of such a derogation. for example, a country that is not considered to be anti-liberal - the netherlands - was accused of committing, i quote, "a manifest error of public service because subsidized social housing cooperatives had among their tenants", i quote, "other than socially disadvantaged households". the truth is that this derogating status actually leads to public services being reduced to ashes. this leads me to the second point i should like to make: what ambition do we have for public services? in our view, the field to be covered is simply that of equal 21st century fundamental rights for everyone: education, health, housing and shelter, early childhood, information, culture, transport, telecommunications, postal services, energy, water supply, wastewater and waste disposal, and the needs that have become unavoidable such as access to credit. these sectors must therefore comply with rules of social efficiency without being subject to competitive pressure. a third aspect is worth mentioning. it is the link between subsidiarity and the european project. as has been said, experience varies from one country to another in terms of public service management, ownership structure and financing. these choices must be the sovereign responsibility of each country in all their implications. so, framework directive or not? the debate is open in my group on this subject and i would say: it sucks! the commission should prepare such an instrument on the basis of the principles i have just mentioned. i am sure that some will object that this is not compatible with the rules of the treaty. that is why we want to change it. i propose, madam president, that we put this question at the top of the agenda of the great debate on the future of europe, and we shall see what the europeans think.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you have mentioned, each country in the union has its own history and conception of public services. the european construction must indeed continue with respect for this diversity, but with a common set of values based on social justice, equality and solidarity. we can create a common framework for a european public service. it cannot be seen in the light of competition, because we know that the benefits to society of public services are in terms of education, health, safety and cohesion between the member states and their citizens. as has been mentioned, we are about to adopt a directive on the opening up of the services market at community level. we know what is at stake in this market for services in the wto negotiations. at both community and global level, it is imperative to be able legally to distinguish between market services and non-market services and to establish the free movement of the former and the regulation of the latter. health, education, social housing and even water distribution must be governed by the law of profit alone? of course not! there is only one imperative that counts, that of the general interest and social progress for all. and only public authority, at whatever level, is the guarantor of this general interest. our fellow citizens are rightly concerned that the european project will be diluted by liberalisation and globalisation. we must meet their demands for quality, affordability, social responsibility and respect for the environment. what better guarantee can we offer our concerned citizens, commissioner, than a european legal framework for public services?
madam president, mr president of the commission, i believe that the time has come for legal and political clarification on this question of services of general interest. on the political level, because the public services debate has haunted the european debate, it has poisoned the debate on the constitutional treaty, and it has been poisoned by the initial proposal for a directive on services in the internal market given the wide range of social services and services of general economic interest covered. the distrust aroused by the risk of public services being called into question by the commission's action or by the european union's interventions is longstanding. it is justified in many respects, given the imbalance that has been struck between internal market rules and the protection of the general interest; the commission has also taken account of the consequences of a number of sectoral directives which have not produced the promised or expected results. i am thinking, for example, of price developments in the energy sector or of certain well-founded fears in the postal sector. clarification is also needed on the legal side. you yourself have just emphasized this, mr president of the commission, when you listed the legislative initiatives which the commission has taken in recent years to try to stabilise the interpretation of the law and the treaties: public aid, regulation of state aid, passenger transport, financing and compensation, etc. i therefore believe that we should not today oppose the need for sectoral initiatives on the one hand and a horizontal framework on the other. we need sectoral initiatives - you have also mentioned them - in the field of, for example, health services or social services of general interest, and we also need horizontal initiatives. why would you do that? because, as you said, one of the principles on which we must base ourselves is respect for the right of each member state and its local authorities to continue to define what they mean by services of general interest or services of general economic interest. these concepts vary from one member state to another. the methods of organization, financing and the outline of the public service vary from one country to another, sometimes even from one region to another, and from one local authority to another. in the absence of legislation, it has reverted to the court of justice and, sometimes, to the commission, to interpret the treaties. however, this interpretation has given rise to a shifting and fluctuating case law which has created legal uncertainty for local authorities, operators and users. it also raised the fear that the tasks of general interest would be jeopardised by a kind of predominance of the interests of the internal market, competition or private operators. that is why we have taken the somewhat original step of a group in the european parliament to propose, as a symbolic but also political initiative, the drafting of a horizontal framework directive to safeguard services of general economic interest. we wanted to show that if there is political will, then the basis can be found in the treaties and a directive can be drawn up to answer the questions we are facing. in this respect, i would like to reply to mrs int veld that i believe that in order to protect subsidiarity we need precisely this legal framework, and that is what we have shown with this draft framework directive. i would ask mrs in't veld to take note of this initiative, which aims to clarify, secure and guarantee the sustainability of public service and general interest missions. i think it is now up to the legislator to set the rules. it is right that the european parliament, representing the citizens, and the governments, representing the member states, should be able to say openly, on the basis of a public debate, how article 86 of the treaties, which limits the internal market and competition in order to safeguard the general interest, should be interpreted. public services, as you said, mr president of the commission, are at the heart of the european social model. citizens are committed to it because it contributes not only to the quality of life, access to fundamental rights, economic, social and territorial cohesion, but also to the competitiveness of our continent and its territories. it is therefore now a legal, but also a political, imperative to show that the union is not the enemy of public services, that it does not seek to impede them, but that it seeks, on the contrary, to preserve them, to encourage them, to develop them.
mr president, mr president of the commission, in the debate on the social model i stressed that our citizens want a europe that responds to their urgent and concrete concerns. the guarantee of the existence and quality of services of general interest is one of these concerns. the legal situation of these services is far too fragile in europe today. it is not healthy that services which are essential for the social cohesion of our societies should depend exclusively on the case law of the court of justice. judges, as we all know, never have more power than in the case of the resignation of a politician. it is therefore our duty to devise, at community level, a legal framework which defines the modalities and objectives of the organisation of services of general interest. mr president of the commission, if not everyone is convinced, that does not mean that we cannot clarify matters. i am one of those who are calling on the commission to propose, as soon as possible, a framework directive on services of general interest. and let me answer frankly to those who are against it and who are in favour of the sectoral approach. this is not an alternative. it's a decoy. our fellow citizens are not blind. they are well aware that to favour this approach would in reality mean delaying the establishment of the legal certainty they wish for services of general interest and in particular for social services of general interest. moreover, it is clear that a framework instrument does not, on the contrary, preclude taking account of the specific features of certain sectors. defining a framework does not mean, of course, standardizing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us not run away from our responsibilities. we have a legislative task ahead of us which will prove that the union is the best guarantor of a high level of solidarity and social cohesion. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to commend the work of our rapporteur, mr bernard rapkay, who has helped to revive this debate on services of general interest. i fully support his proposals to create more legal certainty for social services of general interest. i also support the proposals for the provision of high-quality services throughout the territory at the best price, while respecting social balance and ensuring security of supply on a lasting basis. i am much more sceptical, however, when it comes to asking the commission for clarification on the application of the competition and internal market rules to public services. mr barroso, whose presence in this house i welcome, has just confirmed to us the alleged benefits of this competition for consumers. as the rapporteur has reminded you, public services lack a precise legal framework, and their financing and management are dependent on the uncertain circumstances offered to us by the commission and the court of justice, which change their caps as they see fit, as judges, legislators and executives. for at least 15 years parliament has been asking the commission to legislate. what have we got? the commission proposes an alternative between a simple communication to strengthen the legal certainty of these services and a multitude of sectoral directives. i would like to see a framework directive. a legal framework which gives a positive status, not merely a derogation, to services of general interest. this is a status which the rules of the competitive market will then be bound to respect. the essential areas such as education, health and water must not be liberalized and we must deal with the mixed situations where social, economic and ecological issues are intertwined. services of general interest strengthen the bond of citizens' belonging to europe. they are an essential element of solidarity and contribute to the realisation of social rights. i do not want a europe where the european model is based only on fiscal and social competition between the territories. with this framework directive, i want to take europe beyond the single market, towards a society where all public services are guaranteed as an essential factor of social and territorial cohesion.
mr barroso, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report rightly invokes the principle of subsidiarity as the legal basis for questions relating to services of general interest. its definition is vague. we have moved from a principle of substitution to a principle of delegation. the definition of services of general interest can therefore only be established at the expense of national particularities and needs. once again, we must deplore that the free warning addressed to you by the french and dutch peoples is treated with such contempt. i would remind you that services of general interest concern the european union only from the very questionable point of view of competition. the freedom of the states to define the tasks they wish to entrust to the public service in accordance with the wishes of their peoples is seriously undermined. no, it is not the place of countries which have no historical culture of public services to prevent those who do have access to such services when they have considered it justified. if you respected the principle of subsidiarity in its true sense, you would admit that public services, which are essential to the life of our societies, must be defined, organised and managed as closely as possible to the citizens within the national framework. we believe that only a strong public authority is capable of securing a future, which is not conceived on the basis of the quarterly return on equities alone, but over decades in the fields of education, health, transport, energy, ecology. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) the only rule we need is that of sovereignty, which means that each state should be free to decide on its public services and that public service obligations take precedence over community competition law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you, mr president of the commission, have usefully recalled the four fundamental principles which should guide our thinking on services of general interest. paradoxically, one might think that you have reopened the debate on the need for a framework directive on services of general economic interest, or the choice of sectoral initiatives on social services or health services. the vote on the services directive had shifted the lines in favour of the second solution since the real border is not between economic and non-economic services of general interest but, within the sgeis, between social and health services and others. this development was reinforced by the fine and legally thorough work of rapkay and our colleague gunnar hökmark, who built a legal bridge between the services directive and the sectoral instruments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the construction of a new railway line. firstly, the european treaty does not provide a legal basis, as has been pointed out on many occasions. secondly, this directive would be incompatible with the scope of the services directive, as voted at first reading on 29 may. finally, it does not respond in any way to the need for legal certainty expressed by the actors, while at the same time threatening the subsidiarity claimed by the states and the territorial authorities. whatever instrument we choose, in any case, and whatever ideological choices we make, the essential is elsewhere. the work on legal clarification in the area of social services and health services of general interest should be continued. this is the problem facing the actors on the ground, mr president of the commission.
mr president, mr barroso, ladies and gentlemen, schools, health, the post office, water and transport are the heart of life in society. this is what the service to the public, in the public interest, necessarily requires to be managed: a service of public legal status. it is in europe that countries such as france have invented this solidarity approach to managing the common parts of social co-ownership. and just when this intelligent technology of universal service, universal service, could inspire the bold solutions to be found to the planetary problems of water, basic medicine, education, and all the goods of the common parts of the planetary co-ownership, just then the european commission is reducing, if not destroying, this tool of steering human societies. the reason for this mess of destroying what has worked for a century is the belief that the market is big, that knowledge is its prophet and that all services must be privatised, as the wto wants, including, here, the services of the auxiliary session staff, that is to say, this social squat that we have created in the european parliament, where 300 men work without social papers. mr barroso, beyond the technical problems developed by our colleagues, such as harlem désir, the problem is a cultural problem, a problem of choice. either we run human societies from the law of the market, the law of the jungle, or we run them from the law of reason. mr barroso, do you want to continue jumping from vine to vine, from the imf to the wto, shouting 'market, market', or do you want to sit in the clearing and deal rationally with the problems of reason?
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague manolis mavrommatis which deals with the important issue of media relations and development. freedom of expression and information, as enshrined in article 19 of the universal declaration of human rights adopted by the united nations in 1948, is recognized as a fundamental right. media freedom is essential for good governance in public and private entities and contributes to the achievement of the millennium development goals, which aim to achieve by 2015 a world free of poverty and security. freedom of the media is a prerequisite for access to information and transparency, and this in complete independence. it is a major factor in combating man's age-old scourge of ignorance and in preventing corruption. while i regret that the question of the responsibility of the authors, holders, users and disseminators of information, including personal information, has not been developed, i welcome in this report a decisive contribution to freedom, peace and democracy in the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague christopher beazley on initiatives to complement national school curricula with appropriate measures to support the integration of the european dimension. as europe is being built, everyone is becoming aware of the need to distill european culture among its citizens, especially the young: this is a prerequisite for the success of the european project to create a humanist civilization. in addition to language learning, the history and geography of the european union should, along with the arts and citizenship, be disciplines in which the european dimension must be given priority. i fully agree with the suggestions made in this report, particularly in that it involves teachers in the integration of the european dimension in education. i think that a similar approach should be taken to universities and to lifelong learning.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr holger krahmer, on the draft legislative resolution at first reading on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on ambient air quality and clean air for europe. this proposal for a directive will replace five separate legal instruments and it contributes to the 'better lawmaking' approach and that is an excellent thing. the fight against air pollution is a duty for future generations and it was becoming normal, in view of recent developments in science and health issues, to revise and simplify the existing texts. the efforts of the industrialists and transport companies who have applied regulations of such severity as to meet the challenges, including the health of our fellow citizens, must be commended. attention should be paid to the transposition and the strictness of application by the member states.
in writing. clean air for citizens, their health and quality of life, the intention is good. unfortunately, the report we have just voted on is not up to the challenge. with this text, we are falling short of the who recommendations and will not respond to the health emergency that we have to face. pm 2.5 is the finest and most dangerous particulate matter for the body, and therefore its limit value should not exceed 12 micrograms. moreover, the deadlines for implementation, which extend until 2015, do not reflect the seriousness of the problem and it is not acceptable that derogations can be envisaged. i also regret that this first reading was directly compromised between the political groups, preventing parliamentary work from taking its full place and locking us into a position far removed from our political objectives. in the end, this report does not correspond to the ambition we have clearly expressed in environmental matters, both on the international stage and among the european citizens.
in writing. the signing of the framework agreement allowing parliament to buy full ownership of the wic, sdm and ipe3 buildings for eur 143 125 million is welcome. nevertheless, this agreement will have difficulty in removing the suspicion and loss of confidence which have marred relations between strasbourg and parliament. there are several lessons to be learned. firstly, the prohibition of all real estate transactions involving several actors, because this leads to very complex legal and financial arrangements and is contrary to the principles of transparency. the same applies to the parliament's building policy, and indeed to all the european institutions, which should be thoroughly revised by creating a european building office with clearly defined tasks and powers. as regards the current debate on the single seat, it should be recalled that the reference in this matter remains the treaty of amsterdam and its protocol 12 and that, consequently, parliament has no competence in this matter. finally, i think it is essential that the use of secretarial allowance be made more transparent and above all that a statute for our staff be proposed quickly in order to regulate working conditions, taxation and social security matters. social europe begins at our doorstep.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague helga trüpel on the proposal for a recommendation at first reading of the european parliament and of the council on key competences for lifelong learning. it is essential for european citizens to have, through training, reasonable assurance of their employability in a knowledge society as defined by the lisbon strategy. i am pleased to note that entrepreneurship is one of the eight key competences that every european should have. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have rarely seen a more hypocritical debate in this parliament than the one we are having today. firstly, this parliament has nothing to say. we decided a year ago to say yes. so you can say, "they gave us 150 pages". i assure you that with the 100 pages we have here, you would have said no a year ago, but today you must say yes, since you said yes anyway. this parliament is therefore amputated and is happy to be so. good for you! secondly, mr barroso has just made an extraordinary statement: 'but next time we will need institutional reform!' we said that, when we were ten! we said that when we were fifteen! we told 17 we told 25 we tell 27 and i promise you we will tell 30, 35, 40, 45, that this will be the last time, and we will all die and it will be the last time, next year in jerusalem. that's enough! we are tired of hearing such lies, because with mr schultz's arguments, with mr watson's poetic arguments, how can you say no to the balkans? we have talked about peace, but it is obvious that the balkans have a future in the european union, it is obvious that romania and bulgaria have a future in the european union. they must become europeans. the problem is how! and on what terms, and at what pace and how we will organize. it is not poetry that organizes everyday politics, it is not poetry, unfortunately, and today i ask you one thing: be serious. i am telling you seriously, with this report, if it had been for turkey, you would all have said no! the arguments for peace, for the future, for the market, for my grandmother, for my grandfather, would have been the same, but they are not. because you have a very simple ideological a priori, and it is right: the european union must be enlarged. and there's a funnel effect. the commission and the council decide, the council decides, the commission follows, parliament gives its blessing, yes, yes, it is the funnel and it slides, it slides, it slides and it goes in. and nobody is able to do anything anymore, because when you have a funnel effect, you are not able to stop it... and you have no possibility to raise political problems. but read this: when it comes to the media, the conditions of fairness are not guaranteed, but it doesn't matter, it will come. in that case, the justice is not independent, but it doesn't matter, it will come; the mechanisms for protecting minorities are not yet in place, but that's okay, they will be. when will it come and how? how can you know it's coming? it's just that we have problems at home. the council is also unable to bring justice and law policy into the first pillar on immigration problems. unanimity is not required. at 27, it's going to be a lot easier! you'll see, it's much easier, unanimously, to get everything through. and the german government promises to fix it with the constitution! but how? how to get this constitution through the 27 member states. no one knows, but absolutely no one; but you're gonna see what you're gonna see. i think we're being hypocritical. yes, romania, yes, bulgaria have a european outlook, and i am not going to go into that. the balkans, yes, but we are unable to make europe a real europe, and the worst, and i conclude with this, is that with the enlargement as we are doing, we are moving towards a renationalisation of the thinking of states, of politics and of practices. you saw that at the last council; i am not saying that we are weak, but we are proud of being so as a parliament! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a mystery about the eurlings report. but this mystery is not what we say it is. it is not the harshness, the hardening of the relationship that is the issue. in fact, when you read this report, you can see that it is repeating what has been said, and rightly so, for centuries. it says that human rights and freedom of expression are not sufficiently respected in turkey. it says that religious minorities do not have the right to own property, publish, teach, as everywhere in the european union. it says that when you join a club, the least you can do is shake hands with all the members and not take any belligerent action against any of the members. and it says that there was an armenian genocide, that we will not build anything without the recognition of this genocide, and this is not new. we said that in 2004, we asked in 2004 for the recognition of genocide and in 2005 we said that it must be a precondition. if we do not vote on paragraph 49, it would be a step backwards for this parliament. but the real mystery, the real mystery of the eurlings report, is its consistency. here is an institution which, a few years later, is still saying what it said before. but in the general climate of bastardisation that dany cohn-bendit denounced a few moments ago, this is unusual. it is unusual that today we should say that what we said yesterday must remain the focus of our concerns. the mystery of the eurlings report is that for the first time in the history of the negotiations we have a state which is regressing before accession, not afterwards, and which is telling us that accession must be on its terms and not on ours. the mystery of the eurlings report is that this institution, unlike the commission in its report on bulgaria and romania, has decided to tell the truth, to speak the truth, to tell the facts, and if i know - guy béart said it some time ago - that the first one who tells the truth must be executed, i hope that this will not be the case with mr eurlings and his report, which i will support strongly and vigorously. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, last week i was with other colleagues from the subcommittee on human rights in the province of akari, in the extreme south-east of turkey, a few summits away from iraq and iran. in this area, we met parents, parents who were desperate and helpless to see their young sons go to the mountains. we are told that more than 200 young people have joined the armed groups of the pkk in recent weeks. we also met young girls who are fighting against family feudalism, who are fighting against economic and social isolation and daily violence. many of the people we spoke to talked about the suicide of young girls. in akari, as elsewhere, it is not hope, much less enthusiasm for the future that we have encountered. there are many very specific facts about the violence of the security forces, including against peasants, but also about the extrajudicial arrests and torture of young people, as in diyarbakir this year. the forced resignation of the van prosecutor for demonstrating the responsibility of military members in the semdinli bombing is also very traumatic. in addition to the facts of the dirty war it brings to light, the failure of the independence of the judiciary is not acceptable. everyone says, everyone knows that there is no military answer to the kurdish question and yet, through checkpoints, tanks, soldiers, armed attacks, it is the only one that seems effective. the pkk is called for a unilateral ceasefire. if this call is heard and acted upon as we hope, a large-scale political proposal will have to follow. the attention and support of the european union will be decisive. the deterioration of the situation in the south-east is affecting the human rights situation in the whole country. the anti-terrorism law has been unanimously criticized by our non-governmental interlocutors. it is not in accordance with international law. it would even reverse some of the advances contained in the latest legislative reforms. the situation in the south-east is also giving rise to a resurgence of nationalism which is clearly and sometimes violently opposed to democratic aspirations. writer magden perihan is talking about wildfires. she's talking about some hooligan lawyers. immediate measures must be implemented, in particular the abolition of article 301 of the criminal code, bringing the anti-terrorism law into line with international law, fighting impunity in 2005 only 2 officers out of 305 accused were convicted the implementation of the compensation law 2000 cases out of 3000 in akari province and finally the abolition of the national electoral threshold of 10% which hinders the democratic expression of the population.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is excellent. we support it because it marks a turning point in the european parliament's awareness of the reality of relations between turkey and the european union. it is the most critical of any that has been produced in this chamber for decades. in particular, it contains three decisive points for us: the mention of the european union's capacity for integration as a criterion, the absolute need to normalize turkey's attitude towards cyprus, a full member of the european union, and the recognition of the armenian genocide as a precondition for accession. i would remind my french socialist colleagues that this was part of their programme for the 2004 european elections. the adoption of this report, which we want, must have political consequences. i would first of all ask the commission to stop playing hide and seek and to produce a report on 8 november which is true and not a children's story as is the custom in this field. i ask the council of ministers to look at the situation with lucidity and courage and to consider putting an end to negotiations which are no longer meaningful to ordinary people. beyond the case of turkey, the whole enlargement process is at stake. no further enlargement should now be undertaken until we have given the european union effective decisionmaking mechanisms and a sufficient budget. to continue in illusion and hypocrisy would jeopardize the european project, that is to say the building of political union, and would further widen the gap between the common sense of the peoples and the blindness of the leaders. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to join my colleagues in thanking mrs krehl for the work she has done and in thanking you, mrs hübner, for the quality of the relations we have had with you and all your departments over the months leading up to this vote tomorrow, a vote which, as far as my group is concerned, will not surprise anyone because of course we will adopt this text, and for at least two reasons. firstly, it takes account of most of the requests of our group, but also, i believe, of the majority of us. secondly, the timetable is far behind us and it is therefore important that we adopt this text. i would like to make four observations. firstly, i would remind you - as my colleagues have already done on several occasions - that in the text adopted by the council on 18 august, article 1 is written in all capital letters, madam commissioner, 'to serve as an indicative framework for the member states'. i know that in the present context it is not appropriate to impose directives from the commission or parliament on the 25 heads of state. i would like to stress, however, that we would have liked to have found in this text elements that were a little more binding. as some of my colleagues, including mrs krehl, have said, we will make sure that we formulate the appropriate points of view in the middle of the debate to correct any deviations that may have occurred. secondly, i would like to emphasize the motivation behind these strategic guidelines. the contacts i have at the moment refer me to a 'technostructure' in brussels, to a parliament which decides on strategic orientations. it's all very complicated. people forget too quickly, much too quickly, that it was thanks to these structural funds and these guidelines that we have achieved important results in the past years with portugal, spain and ireland, for the benefit of people who live in disadvantaged situations in disadvantaged regions. they forget that our desire for solidarity, which is expressed today in this cohesion policy, is aimed at enabling all peoples, every inhabitant of the less favoured regions, to have access to the same benefits as those of the more favoured regions. i would like to say in a word how much i appreciate the flexibility which has been announced in this text from the outset, flexibility which should allow priority to be given, taking into account the strengths and weaknesses of each region, to transport, the environment and energy in particular. finally, as our colleagues in the intergroup have already pointed out, we appreciate that this text emphasizes the importance of cities. i myself was in germany a few days ago and i can say, under the supervision of my german colleagues, that 90% of the german population lives in cities with more than 2000 inhabitants. the text before us emphasizes this importance of the city. what i would like to say is that beyond the words, beyond the financial amounts that will be allocated to the cohesion fund, there will be the way in which it will be used. in your communication on cohesion policy and cities, you gave special attention to the integrated approach. i would like to say at this stage of the debate how much we must be careful and make sure that the implementation of integrated approaches does not only affect cities in the strict sense but also the areas of life around cities. we were discussing this with my colleague, mrs bourzai, who is here today at noon. it's not just the city that counts, it's the whole territory around it, within a radius of 10, 20, 50, 100 kilometers, where people live together every day. and for people to live together in harmony, the different themes of transport, social, education must be well connected to each other. i would like to conclude by saying that the actors must also be well connected to each other: national, regional, local actors, etc. and just as to make a good orchestra with its violins and pianos, you need a conductor; we will ensure that all these instruments have a good conductor, who can make these cohesion funds a success.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank and congratulate our colleague, mrs constanze krehl, for her report, and in particular for her first own-initiative report, which has enabled the european parliament to express its opinion on the guidelines for cohesion early enough to be heard and to influence the second version proposed by the commission, which we are debating. it must be stressed that the procedure was a bit surprising. while at community level we had not yet adopted the strategic guidelines, the member states were already preparing their national adaptations. while member states were motivated by legitimate efficiency concerns to use the new structural funds as early as 2007, there was a risk of a lack of overall coherence. the reform of regional policy was carried out in the difficult context of enlargement and the renewal of the financial perspective, but also in the context of the relaunch of the lisbon strategy, which clearly reoriented the objectives. however, a reorientation exclusively towards innovation, the knowledge economy, competitiveness and entrepreneurship is not enough to achieve the objectives of territorial cohesion and sustainable development, which i believe are of priority. i am particularly sorry that the budgetary allocation to the lisbon objectives and the classification of expenditure have not been submitted to the european parliament for approval. i also regret that the territorial dimension of cohesion has not been explicitly taken into account as a strategic orientation, even though i have noted the developments in urban policy. i am concerned, however, about the absences, the shortcomings in the rural environment, which is not very well funded ...
mr president, commissioner, we have little doubt about the outcome of tomorrow's vote on these strategic guidelines, which will probably be almost unanimously approved by this house. i think, like many others here, that the work of our rapporteur has something to do with it. however, as we all know, it is too late to talk about this here and now. the preparation of operational programmes is already well advanced in most countries. of course, it's the rest of the story that interests us. what is the real purpose of the union's regional policy, which represents almost 40% of the community budget: the lisbon strategy, territorial cohesion or both? that's what we're hoping. it seems to me that the principle on which parliament was not consulted, earmarking, which concerns mainly the old member states, is one of the most technocratic and, in my humble opinion, one of the least intelligent ever conceived in europe. it is the combination of two technocracies, the commission, whose science in this field is well known, and the member states, which is as varied as it is developed. what's in it for him? it is still possible to hope for the best. this will have to wait for the commission to examine the operational programmes submitted by the member states, which will take months. i hope that they will respond first and foremost to the needs and wishes of the urban and rural populations to which they apply. we know that you are attentive to these common sense concerns, commissioner. i hope you can convince your interlocutors and your collaborators of this.
mr president, reducing disparities between territories, particularly those on the border, is an important issue in the community's strategic guidelines. in this context, emphasis should be placed on actions with a long-term impact, such as those carried out in the field of transport and the environment, but also in the framework of the lisbon strategy for supporting smes and the cross-border labour market. it is regrettable, however, that in the search for balanced development, the border regions which are taken as the basis of regional policy are sometimes very different in size and population and may have important differences in statistical classification. this can lead to disparate allocations of structural funds and there is a great risk that the strengthening of the competitiveness of these border regions, one of the priorities of cooperation, will turn into a bitter competition between neighbouring regions. the resulting inequalities in development on both sides of the border would be liable to undermine the european union's cohesion policy, even though one of the objectives of this policy is to mitigate the negative effect of borders. how then can the citizens concerned be made to perceive the added value of the european union? it is therefore imperative to optimise the conditions for balanced crossborder economic and social development and to pay particular attention to programmes for such crossborder cooperation. finally, i would like to thank mrs constance krehl for her report and, above all, for her constantly renewed commitment to sustainable cohesion.
i thank the european commission for having considerably expanded the consideration of the territorial dimension of cohesion policy in the latest version of its strategic guidelines. i agree with the commission's wish to look for mechanisms for implementing cohesion policy which help to ensure fair treatment of all the territories, on the basis of their individual capacities in terms of competitiveness factors. for the next generation of programmes, the promotion of territorial cohesion must aim to ensure that the whole of europe has the opportunity to contribute to action for growth and jobs, in particular through high-quality partnerships bringing together actors at all levels: national, regional, urban, rural and local. the new legislative framework also provides for a special allocation for the outermost regions to take account of the high costs of distance. i share the commission's objective of ensuring that this allowance also contributes to creating sustainable growth and jobs in the outermost regions.
mr president, by regularizing one and a half million illegal immigrants in 2005, spain and italy have created a tremendous air call from africa, the continent closest to western europe and close to the suburbs of paris. spain, rightly accused of being irresponsible by regulating illegal immigrants en masse, responds: most of the africans who have arrived in the canaries - 25,000 since the beginning of the year - are french speakers who aspire to go to other countries. it is therefore understandable that the disastrous schengen convention, which has been in force since 1985, should be abolished, because it allows any illegal immigrant who arrives in spain or italy or elsewhere and is legalised to enter france and enjoy all the social benefits. mr sarkozy, who has been absent from eight of the last ten european councils of ministers of the interior, is ill-placed to criticise spain, whereas france is in favour of removing unanimity for judicial and police cooperation, that is to say abandoning one of its royal powers. monitoring our own borders is a vital requirement in a time of globalized immigration. the thousands of kilometres of coastline and the apparently permeable land frontiers cannot be left to others to control. it is not frontex, that european machine which is supposed to be guarding europe's borders, which can make up for the failures of the states. without addressing the problem of immigration at its source and without defining a major development policy, we will continue to welcome millions of immigrants who will gradually destabilize the old europe and eventually overwhelm it. the european institutions are only exacerbating this decadent trend by promoting an immigration policy which mr sarkozy hypocritically calls 'chosen immigration'. let the people of europe take matters into their own hands as switzerland has just done and protect themselves against the invasion of migrants which is only just beginning.
mr president, our discussions take place in the wake of the tampere ii summit. at the summit, the member states discussed issues which are fundamental to the pursuit of the establishment of a genuine european area of freedom, security and justice. i am therefore glad that the question of the bridge clause is finally on the council's table. we are, of course, in favour of the communitization of the whole of the third pillar, particularly as regards legal immigration; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore invite the council to continue its discussions, which i hope will eventually enable this bridge clause to be activated. i would also like to raise the issue of the agreement on the transfer of personal data concerning air travel, or pnr agreement. discussions are under way with the american authorities, but i am informed that they want more. could vice-president frattini tell us whether these negotiations will lead to a common agreement before the end of the month, which is close? we had agreed on a two-stage procedure, which provides for the content to be discussed again in 2007. does that really apply to americans as well? i would like to address this to the council: i would remind you that the european parliament is today expecting a firm commitment from the council with regard to the framework decision on data protection. as regards immigration, at the tampere summit the council seems to have reiterated the strong commitments the european union made seven years ago, in particular the establishment by 2010 of a common immigration policy and a common asylum system. again, the deadline is near! my group stresses that better management of the external borders can only be one aspect of our common immigration policy. the difficulties and the humanitarian emergency that are imposed on the frontiers, especially in southern europe, the massive arrivals of migrants and asylum seekers cannot leave anyone indifferent. we therefore want to see european solidarity strengthened. we ask that europe share the burdens and responsibilities of its immigration policy. we also want to see partnerships with countries of origin and transit, based above all on respect for both fundamental rights and the right to asylum. but we must not allow the externalization of our borders. we want a comprehensive and cross-cutting approach to immigration problems. the fight against illegal immigration must be accompanied by concrete proposals, whether in favour of opening up legal immigration channels or of effective and genuine co-development. we need to tackle the root causes of migration, which are poverty, conflict. we must allow the development of third countries which are suffering and migration must also be seen as a positive factor for development. it must contribute to the reduction of poverty. we propose, among other things, that financial support be provided for immigrants in their country of origin. we want to ensure that there is an active exchange between the countries of the north and the countries of the south and we want to know how the proposals put forward in rabat in this field will be put into practice. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, exactly one year ago, more than eleven, perhaps sixteen, migrants were killed by bullets in ceuta and melilla. spanish bullets, moroccan bullets? we don't know, no investigation has been conducted. all we know today is that one of the dead was cameroonian, the others remain nameless and faceless. have we learned the lessons of this tragedy? not at all, since in july three more migrants died, i believe in melilla, and pressure continues to be exerted on morocco to sign a readmission agreement, even though we have every day since that date evidence that roundups, including deportations into the desert, continue in that country, as well as violations of the human rights of migrants, including those with unhcr papers. what lessons have we learned from this tragedy? simply, the pressure we continue to exert on morocco has shifted the migration routes south, and the shifting of these routes south has resulted in increasingly dangerous journeys. a few years ago, it was absolutely unthinkable to reach the canary islands by small motorboats. today, it is a reality, and many are experiencing it. we know how many of these people are arriving in the canary islands, we don't know how many have left, thousands, how many? what faces, what names? how many people died in mauritanian or senegalese territorial waters? what is this policy and what do i hear, mr frattini, from your mouth and in your interviews? that you want a european armada, that you want patrols, that you want planes, that you want military boats and helicopters, that you want to protect our borders! that's what i read and what i hear from you, mr. frattini. what is this war talk! have we entered a war on migrants? the policy of the european union has entered a vicious circle. we buy the cooperation of third countries to control their own borders, that is, we lock migrants in their own countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard mr frattini complain that we cannot protect the southern frontiers of europe, and he rightly points out that an illegal immigrant who manages to cross into spain or italy ends up in lille or hamburg in one day, and he proposes, like mr sarkozy, the complete abolition of the right of veto. as usual, european integration is seen as the solution to the problems it poses. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat illegal immigration. today the commission is freezing readmission agreements between states, interfering with family reunification policies and even wanting to bring back 25 million more immigrants to stop the demographic decline. no, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot alternate in power for thirty years and then come to the elections and explain that we are not responsible for the present situation. and we need to go even further in the federal race! frankly, if you want to destroy european civilization, go ahead and do it!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more than 20 000 illegal immigrants have been stranded on the beaches of the canary islands, lampedusa and malta since the beginning of the year, risking their lives. we don't know how many others drowned. and the remarks i have just heard from mr le pen about these men and women are quite vile. our only purpose in dealing with these immigrants is to be able to provide for the vital needs of their families. these men, often fathers, are willing to do anything to ensure that their children are fed, and nothing will stop them. rather than stigmatizing them, we must put an end to these human tragedies. so let's put those words into action and quickly put in place a real immigration policy. on visits to administrative detention centres at the southern borders of europe, my colleagues and i sounded the alarm. this summer, a frontex mission was sent to patrol the spanish and african coasts. it's a positive first step. unfortunately, the lack of resources is still evident. these are some of the examples which are included in my group's resolution. firstly, the strengthening of the security of the external borders. it is important to remember that in our schengen area, the sharing of responsibilities and the financial burden is paramount. so let us think about the effective creation of joint maritime border patrols, a european border police or a network of immigration liaison officers. secondly, a more effective crackdown on human trafficking and undeclared work in all member states. thirdly, real partnerships and readmission agreements with countries of origin. first of all, we want the european directive on return to be adopted as soon as possible. as far as co-development is concerned, let us set up more effective monitoring systems. the money from co-development must go directly to the people without being diverted. development aid should be conditional on, and proportionate to, the efforts made by the countries of origin to prevent their populations from illegal immigration. finally, have the states which have massively legalised immigration in recent years brought their illegal immigration under control? the answer is unfortunately no. mass regularization is not, as some people think, the current solution. in conclusion, i would like to ask you frankly: how much longer, how many more meetings will it take for the 25 ...
mr president, parliament must give its opinion by the end of the year on the solidarity and management of migration flow framework programme. i would have liked more money for this major instrument, but we are faced with the constraints of draconian financial perspectives. i hope, in any case, that the commission will not accept any retreat from its last proposal. our aim must be to ensure that the distribution of funding between the four funds - refugees, external borders, integration and return - reflects a balanced approach to the issue of immigration and not a predominantly repressive approach. that is why we must defend the integration fund, because if the council says that integration can be financed by the esf, this fund is the only real instrument for financing measures for first-time arrivals. finally, if we have a duty of solidarity towards the particularly vulnerable states, we should bear in mind that these are structural funds and are not intended to be used as emergency funds, especially since the distribution keys in each fund allow for the diversity of situations.
mr president, i believe that we are at a crucial moment in the future of european immigration policy, a moment of truth in which each and every one of us must clearly see the issues at stake. what is europe's response to these challenges? at present, it must be said, a mixture of compassion and repression that offers no real solution to the need for protection sought. the danger of a throwaway immigration, where the migrant is seen only in a utilitarian dimension, should be recalled. hypocrisy has been the rule since the first european summit in tampere, which was supposed to lead to a communitization of asylum and immigration policies. we are now seeing a shift of responsibility towards our neighbours on the southern shore of the mediterranean, who are hardly able to shoulder this heavy burden. so how can we believe that we will be able to dry up these migration flows, when we already anticipate the future arrival of climate refugees? we must finally get out of short-sighted politics. we must support policies of activity... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, we are seeing more and more that a common immigration policy at european level has become indispensable. for those who doubted it, the mass legalisation of undocumented foreigners in some european countries has proved that it is leading to massive arrivals of new illegal migrants on our continent. this situation has repercussions for all the countries of the european union, since, as everyone knows, the legal migrant can move freely throughout a large part of the union's territory. we have seen from the spanish example that in the borderless area in which we live, a government can no longer decide on its own, without consulting its partners, to regularize all the irregular immigrants present on its territory. a common and concerted policy became indispensable, as was also foreseen in the draft european constitution which transferred the bulk of this matter to the qualified majority. i note that, despite the commission's efforts, some states seem to be going backwards by refusing today what they accepted yesterday. it's a shame, though. the maintenance of unanimity in this area is a factor of paralysis and inefficiency. the informal eu summit on 20 october must decide on strong and concrete measures to curb illegal immigration. he must not be content with grand declarations of good intentions, as is too often the case. stopping illegal immigration, yes, but the problem must be tackled at its root. it must be examined in consultation with the african countries, in the context of a genuine strategy of co-development, through a genuine transfer of competence between immigration and emigration countries. but above all, the european union must step up and better control its development aid policy, know where the funds go, how they are used. finally, i am mindful of the very short term and the immediate problems and i would like to deplore, as gérard deprez has done, the behaviour of states which are always talking about mutual aid and solidarity, without ever turning from words to deeds. in the face of the influx of illegal immigrants to the canary islands, it is our duty to help spain and it is up to the member states to be ready to take action and show solidarity.
the rapporteur. ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to vote in favour of the legislative resolution contained in my report on data protection in the third pillar. this morning, minister rajamäki was able to make concrete the moral commitments made by the previous presidencies. the finnish presidency has made data protection a priority and i thank it today. i'm taking this opportunity to welcome him. the council is to present us with a text in early 2007 and will take our opinion into account. that is why i call on you to vote in favour of this report.
there is a mistake in our amendment. of course, these are services of general economic interest, since the sentence refers to their deregulation and does not concern other services of general interest. so it's the sigs, not the gis.
mr president, the same request, to replace sig by sieg.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague agustin diaz de mera garcia consuegra on the proposal for a european council decision on the pericles programme for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. this is a crucial issue for the proper functioning of our single currency and i welcome the decision to extend it to member states outside the euro area. it is interesting to note that while the number of counterfeit euro notes seems to be stabilising at 50,000 per month, there is a worrying explosion of counterfeit coins. this situation raises the question of whether we should not consider putting a euro banknote into circulation, like the dollar in the united states of america, to avoid counterfeiting while still having some practical utility for commerce and citizens.
in writing. since the introduction of the euro and the consequent withdrawal of the national currencies of the countries of the union, only one positive thing can be noted: the reduction in counterfeiting. thus, in 2005, the total number of counterfeit euro coins withdrawn from circulation remains well below the total number of counterfeits denominated in the old national currencies before the introduction of the euro. this is due in particular to the good cooperation between the anti-fraud office, the european central bank, europol, interpol and the competent national authorities. but beyond the outright counterfeiting, there is also the recent emergence of new coins that look mistakenly like two-euro coins. since 1 january 2005, turkey has had a new currency, the new turkish lira. the new one-litre coin looks exactly the same and is the same size as the two-euro coin. coincidence or clever counterfeit? you know what ? the problem is that these turkish coins are already circulating in europe, presaging perhaps the announced entry of turkey into europe by our european leaders and eurocrats, in defiance of the will of the people themselves. let us be vigilant, turkey is more than ever at our doorstep!
mr president, we did not vote for mr demetriou's report, although it does improve the council's proposal for a framework decision in a rather substantial way. why didn't we vote for it? because, despite all this, the whole system remains remarkably ambiguous. what exactly does it mean to take account of criminal decisions taken in a member state? is it possible to take them into account in order to avoid the application of the non bis in idem rule and thus avoid unjust double convictions? that would be perfectly natural. but, on the contrary, should they be taken into account when someone is considered guilty of acts which are not considered criminal in his country of origin? for example, will historian david irving, who is unjustly imprisoned in austria today for a crime of opinion, be regarded, when he returns to his country soon, as we hope, as a delinquent and a repeat offender, when he is arguably the greatest british historian in the history of the second world war? these are some of the ambiguities in the text which, in our opinion, justify our reluctance, especially since there is a convention, the 1970 convention. as the report rightly points out, a framework decision cannot unilaterally amend an international convention. this is a problem for countries which are not members of the european union but have ratified the convention. this reservation, which we made after ratification, raises a new problem in international law, which we prefer to settle in accordance with the terms of international conventional law.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague panayiotis demetriou on the proposal for a framework decision of the european council on the taking into account of conviction decisions between member states of the european union in new criminal proceedings. the functioning of the single market and the mobility of europeans within the union make it necessary to define the conditions under which a conviction handed down in one member state must be capable of being taken into account in the context of a new criminal proceeding concerning different facts in another member state. it is imperative to establish the principle of mutual recognition of convictions with the associated pooling and exchange of appropriate information. it is a condition, not sufficient, but necessary, for moving towards a european judicial area, since we are convinced that european democracy must be based, in particular, on law and, conversely, that law must be derived from democracy.
in writing. for 2007-13, the progress programme aims to include in a single text all the community programmes on social protection, working conditions, etc. this all-in-one is yet another tool of social uselessness, like the ineffective 'lisbon strategy' for european economic growth. this programme is also clearly ideological. while gender equality and the consideration of the interests of disabled people are highly commendable objectives, the defence of 'people who may be discriminated against at community level on grounds of race or ethnic origin, religion or religious beliefs' can be a means of silencing opposition to the current immigration policy in european countries, which for 30 years has challenged our social protection systems. in addition to its cost, this project strengthens the powers of the euro-brussels bureaucracy, which bears a heavy responsibility for the ruin of many of our industries, the destruction of our countryside and therefore the social regression suffered by the peoples of europe. only a new europe of the homelands, based on national solidarity, will bring about real social progress in our countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the assent opinion on the strategic guidelines for cohesion, but i would like to stress that the reform of regional policy was carried out in the difficult context of the renewal of the financial perspectives but also in the context of the relaunch of the lisbon strategy, which clearly reoriented its objectives. however, a reorientation towards innovation, the knowledge economy and competitiveness in the former member states alone is not enough to achieve the objectives of territorial cohesion and sustainability, which i believe are a priority. i am particularly sorry that the budgetary allocation to the lisbon objectives and the classification of expenditure have not been submitted to parliament for approval. i also regret that the territorial dimension of cohesion has not been explicitly taken into account as a strategic orientation in its own right. however, for the development of isolated rural areas, this is not enough. i am worried about the fate of these programmes, since we still do not have a clear line of demarcation between erdf and eafrd assistance, which is part of the cap and whose amounts are very limited.
in writing. the community strategic guidelines for 2007-2013 have finally been adopted by the european parliament. i voted in favour of the rapporteur's recommendations, which approve these guidelines. i nevertheless drew the commission's attention to the issue of crossborder cooperation during the debate, which should make it possible to reduce disparities between the union's border areas, provided that disparate allocations of structural funds resulting from the statistical nomenclature do not impede the objective of cohesion and do not increase inequalities. it is essential to ensure conditions for balanced economic, social and territorial development on both sides of the frontiers and to pay particular attention to programmes for crossborder cooperation.
mr president, i should like to explain why, after interesting debates yesterday and the votes today, i voted against the rapkay report. simply because i am forced to see that this is a resounding victory for the liberals. we voted for the deregulation of public services, we voted against a framework directive, we voted against the distinction between services of general economic interest and services of general interest, we voted for the application of competition law to all services of general interest and their precise definition, we voted against the definition of in-house, in other words public administrations, we voted against the clarification of the altmark criteria. in these circumstances, we are considerably behind the previous resolutions, those of mr herzog and mr langen in 2001, and the commission is proposing a new communication at the end of the year. this means that we are leaving whole sections of community law and local public services open to the uncertainties of the court. what do we mean by direct control? what is meant by an intercommunal structure? what is meant by a mixed economy society? what are concessions in relation to market and competition law? we still do not know, and that is why i will continue to advocate transversal texts to ensure subsidiarity. i think that, unfortunately, we are far from being in the right place and that today is a losing battle. i hope this isn't a final defeat.
mr president, we did not approve the rapkay report for a very specific reason: it represents a completely unjustified step backwards from the text of the constitution itself. the text of the draft constitution provided for a european law establishing the principles and conditions for the provision, implementation and financing of services of general economic interest. it was therefore what is known in the present nomenclature as a framework directive. the report not only departs from the substance of the text, but by rejecting amendment no 10 it has formally refused and publicly stated its opposition to the constitutional text. i am therefore concerned about the drift of this house which, by and large, claims to support the constitutional text and which, when something important and even central to public opinion in a number of countries is at stake, backs down without any justification.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague bernhard rapkay's report on the european commission's white paper on services of general interest (sig) because it is a balanced report. in particular, it has the courage to point out that it is impossible to define gis in a uniform way in an economic and social environment as heterogeneous as that of the european union and that, in this matter, the principle of subsidiarity should be reaffirmed by leaving it to the member states to set the course for what is or is not in the general interest and to assume directly the consequences of their decisions. after the difficulties in obtaining a political compromise at first reading on the services directive, the debate on gis is far from over. there is an urgent need to legislate at european level on specific sectors, in particular social and health services of general interest, in order to secure them legally. finally, this dossier will be an important element of the competitiveness of the european area to which we must pay attention.
in writing. i voted against mr rapkay's report on the white paper on services of general interest because several amendments which were close to my heart were rejected, including those calling for a framework directive on services of general interest and those calling for clarification of the criteria for distinguishing between gis and sgei and the criteria for granting compensation for public service and in-house (self-production) services. we must not compromise on these crucial points for the future of our public services in our territories and go backwards from what parliament voted in the herzog resolution adopted in 2004 and the langen resolution in 2001, at the very moment when the pes group drew up a proposal for a framework directive on services of general interest that goes even further.
in writing. i voted against mr rapkay's report for the following reasons. firstly, the commission is not asked to propose a framework directive on gis. the regional authorities, mixed-use companies and inter-municipal structures are now under threat because of the risk of litigation in the name of competition law. mr barroso was right when he noted the lack of consensus on a proposal for a framework directive during the debate in plenary. by refusing to define the gis and the specific law applicable to them, the commission leaves the rules of the market and therefore competition law to apply to public services. the time has not come for yet another communication or for new sectoral proposals. we expect the commission to respect the decisions of the european parliament and to evaluate the liberalization policies implemented as soon as possible. we know that the results are far from the stated objectives. this resolution does not consider services of general interest as a fundamental pillar of the european social model or as a means of achieving the social, economic, ecological and territorial cohesion objectives of the union.
in writing. mr rapkay's report on services of general interest, whether economic or not, promises yet another legislative gas factory at european level and new interference by the commission in the budgetary and tax systems of the states and their territorial authorities, all in total violation of the principle of subsidiarity, which is mentioned in abundance by the rapporteur. the european citizens must be constantly reminded that the liberalization of public services, with the consequences we know, is a legal hold-up by the brussels commission on the treaties. the market alone cannot guarantee the quality or the fulfilment of all the missions of these services, whether they are social, spatial planning or of strategic and national interest. public services, whether profitable or not, should be the exclusive responsibility of the states as regards their definition, organisation, designation, number and nature of the entities entrusted with them, and the way they are financed.
in writing. mr rapkay's report on services of general interest (sig) is an attractive report at first sight. the report calls for better protection of public services, better defence of the principle of subsidiarity, democratic respect for national traditions and clarification of the definitions of gis by introducing, in particular, the concept of services of 'non-economic' interest. these good intentions can be deceptive, especially if the draft framework directive seems to have been abandoned. however, many binding rules will compete with the prerogatives of the member states, such as control of the means of financing. the door is therefore open to a future drift towards europeanism. finally, i cannot vote for this text which refers to the constitutional treaty, a constitution which, according to the report, would provide better guarantees for the gis in the face of the current european legislative mess. i would remind you that the european constitution was democratically rejected by the dutch and french peoples. this text, which is half-goat, half-chew, can only be voted against.
in writing. i voted against the rapkay report which does not recognise the need for a framework directive on gis and sgeis, leaving the door open to the continuation of the current deregulation which is calling into question our public services and the access of everyone everywhere to these essential services. a framework directive should guarantee equality between users, equality between citizens and territories, spatial planning and the long-term sustainability of the services provided, as well as a level of quality. it is urgent to put an end to this widespread liberalization which is not satisfactory either for the employees of these activities or for the citizens.
mr president, many of us abstained on the eurlings report for the following reasons. we would have voted for this report because, as i said yesterday, it is the most critical report ever adopted in this parliament on turkey's attitude towards the european union. unfortunately, in its votes the assembly rejected the recognition of the armenian genocide as a precondition for accession and, moreover, despite our vote and that of many of our colleagues, it adopted a provision which implicitly provides for accession as the only outcome of the negotiations. on these two points we disagree. however, we did not want to oppose the efforts made by mr eurlings and the committee on foreign affairs, which sent a very strong signal on behalf of this parliament, which is why we abstained.
mr president, we in the udf very strongly support mr eurlings' report because it contains very strong and important truths. even so, we were forced to abstain. why would you do that? firstly, precisely because this report seems to exclude the idea of a strengthened partnership as an alternative to full membership. but this is unrealistic. and above all because, by rejecting the paragraph on armenia, this parliament is sending an extraordinarily negative signal. i would remind you that in 2004 we voted a resolution saying that we were asking for the recognition of the armenian genocide; in 2005 we voted a resolution saying that we were asking for the recognition of this genocide to be a precondition for accession. today, we forget all that. what's the message? the message of a parliament that changes its mind, that forgets its resolutions. the message is simple, it is to tell the turks: you do not have to hurry to change this point, you can continue to make the very mention of the genocide a crime of opinion, and you will not be asked, in the end, to recognize this genocide. this is an extremely negative message, extremely serious. i regret that it was introduced and that it prevented us from voting on mr eurlings' excellent report.
in writing. the eurlings report takes stock of progress and problems encountered one year after the opening of accession negotiations with turkey. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, including the european information and communication networks, and for the establishment of a european network of information and communication networks. the armenian genocide must be recognized by turkey. however, this recognition cannot be presented as a precondition for accession, if the copenhagen criteria are considered. as for the paragraph on the possibility of special cooperation between the eu and turkey in the event of failure of the negotiations, it is not appropriate at the moment. we are in the process of moving forward and we cannot now be pessimistic about the conclusion of the negotiations. with this vote i want to show the many steps turkey must take to join the european union, but i do not want to create any new barriers to its eventual accession. in my view, turkey's accession to the eu is both an opportunity for turkey and an opportunity for europe.
in writing. if you had not mistakenly described turkey as a european country, which it is not, you would not be in the position today of having to acknowledge a number of truths. today you tell us that religious minorities, especially christians, are being oppressed in turkey. that respect for human rights in general, and women in particular, is not guaranteed. you find that turkey still refuses to recognize cyprus, a member of the union to which it is seeking to join, and frequently provokes border incidents with another member state, greece. you say that turkey is violating one of the fundamental principles of the european union, the free movement of persons. that's just to name a few. and all you have to conclude is: "let's continue the negotiations but be careful, in the end, we can always say no". who can believe this fable? on 3 december you should have listened to the european peoples, the majority of whom are hostile to turkey's entry into europe. you should have offered turkey a privileged partnership which respected our differences, not this political and diplomatic charade which is humiliating for both sides and especially for the turkish people.
in writing. i abstained on this report. the report presented in plenary has the merit of finally facing reality. for a long time parliament had been very angelic on this issue. this report is stronger than the previous ones, but i regret the lack of courage in parliament on the question of the recognition of the armenian genocide. that is why i have decided to abstain on the final vote. i have been opposed to turkey's membership of the european union for many years, but i am calling for a privileged partnership with turkey. more meps are now joining this position, which was still very much in the minority a few years ago. turkey does not recognise one of the member states of the european union, the republic of cyprus, and has occupied it for 30 years! turkey does not recognize the armenian genocide. turkey does not approve of freedom of association, and 97% of its territory is outside europe. europe has a duty to help this country on the road to democracy, but because of its geography, its history and its culture, turkey cannot claim to be part of the political project of the european union.
in writing. mr eurlings' report contained excellent passages, particularly those concerning the armenian genocide which the turkish authorities refuse to admit, the economic blockade imposed on armenia, the refusal to recognise cyprus as a member state of the european union. one of these elements alone should lead to the conclusion that the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union must be stopped. not only does the rapporteur fail to reach this conclusion, but above all he fails to mention the obvious fact that turkey is not a european country. 95% of its territory is asian; its capital, ankara, is in the heart of asia minor; as christian communities have been eliminated during the 20th century, 99% of its population belongs to the muslim world. turkey has therefore no reason to join the european union. this is a fact which is recognized by the peoples of europe, particularly in france and austria, but not by those who govern us. this morning's vote illustrates this split: not only did the majority of our assembly vote in favour of such an accession, but it rejected paragraph 49 which called for recognition of the armenian genocide, thus submitting to the wishes of turkey.
in writing. although the eurlings report is critical of turkey's accession to the european union, in particular by calling for recognition of the armenian genocide, it does not go so far as to call that accession into question. it is true that the european commission, jacques chirac and the british, the main defenders of the ottoman regime, are there to prevent any deviation or measure that might delay or prevent accession. we have not changed our position in the face of changing circumstances, the fluctuations of the turkish government, which is fighting back and forth with the negotiators of the european commission and the main member states. we are opposed to turkey's membership on a matter of principle. turkey is not a european country and does not meet any of the copenhagen criteria which are supposed to define a country's membership of the european union. the negotiations should move towards the status of privileged partnership by maintaining the visa requirement for turkish nationals as it currently stands. turkey's accession will not be against the peoples of europe. as defenders of the french people, we will be able to protect its interests, which include rejecting turkey's accession to europe.
in writing. i have always felt that turkey's accession to the eu could not be envisaged in the current framework of european integration. i am in favour of a europe of the three circles. the first is a federal nucleus with countries that share ambitious social objectives and the desire for a 'european power' that plays a role on the world stage. the second group includes the 27 countries that are now members of the eu. in view of the difficulties and the need to consolidate the community, any further enlargement must be ruled out. the third is to organise a close and comprehensive partnership with the neighbouring countries, the balkans, the mediterranean and others. i would stress the importance of close partnerships with the mediterranean region, which treats turkey and the maghreb, with which our europe has longstanding and important links, equally. i therefore abstained on all the votes except for the recognition of the armenian genocide which parliament has always defended, and this so that no one could imagine that i had any principle of prevention against turkey. this is another vision of europe.
in writing. we voted against this text, which makes a very unfair reproach to turkey: that of being turkey, that is to say, not being european. what is the point of pressing this country with recommendations and demands: the peoples of europe do not want turkey to join, because it is obvious to them that turkey, and this is not to insult it, is not part of the european family. it has its own culture, its own values, its own sphere of influence. that is the meaning of the amendment we tabled on behalf of the ind/dem group. we must now put an end to the hypocritical and destructive game of accession negotiations, which can only end in a major crisis, since the eventual accession treaty has no chance of being ratified by the peoples. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. today we have a thought for our french colleagues caught in the middle of schizophrenia. while they claim to oppose turkey's accession, they vote every year, here and in the french parliament, for pre-accession funds for turkey, and they have welcomed within their own european party, the epp, the observers of the akp, mr erdogan's islamist party.
in writing. i have decided to abstain on the eurlings report, even though it is a hard report. it is true that it marks a turning point in the realisation of the reality of eu-turkey relations, but by implying and confirming, after the rejection of certain amendments, that accession is an end in itself, it remains too one-sided. the undeniable slowdown in reforms in turkey, despite the opening of accession negotiations by the commission, should, on the contrary, strengthen the option of a preferential partnership. the fact that the opening of these negotiations has not accelerated reforms is worrying and our response should be a demand for results and not the idea that accession will happen at all costs. it was therefore necessary to recall that the normalisation of relations with cyprus must be an unconditional precondition for eventual accession. the fact that turkey has still not ratified and implemented the ankara protocol, which is a legal form of recognition that is minimal and just acceptable, is unacceptable. finally, i supported the amendment on the recognition of the armenian genocide as a precondition for eventual accession, because this is not a symbolic point but a moral duty and a historical requirement incumbent on the turkish authorities.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, for the past three years, and in the eyes of an impotent international community, darfur has been the victim of a terrible tragedy. the conflict has caused, as you said, the deaths of 300,000 civilians. two million people have been displaced within darfur, a third of the population; 200,000 have fled across the border to chad. three million people depend on international food aid alone. every day, children, families are being assaulted, displaced, murdered. the humanitarian crisis is getting worse. in most of darfur, humanitarian organisations are prevented from reaching some 350,000 people in need of medicine and food. malnutrition and lack of water have led to outbreaks of cholera and hepatitis e in the camps. the leaders of ngos are also victims of this conflict: twelve of them have been killed in the last two months. the peace agreement signed in abuja on 5 may, by its inadequacy, did not stop the violence but, on the contrary, caused an increase in abuses. the fighting, the massacres of the populations have resumed. 100,000 people have been displaced by the violence since may. thousands of sudanese army soldiers have once again deployed to the area, and airstrikes have resumed. and in the meantime, it's more than two million people trying to survive, parked in camps, surrounded by their enemies, and under constant attack. hundreds of women are raped every month as soon as they leave the camp and walk a few meters to collect firewood for warmth or food. these millions of people had no other occupation than the work of the land; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not affected by the situation in the former yugoslavia. all of them are 100% dependent on international aid, which is not particularly generous. some months, food rations are cut in half, because the grants have been missed, because the donors weren't at the appointment. these camps, my dear colleagues, are real open-air prisons. we cannot remain indifferent any longer to what is happening in darfur. europe has a humanitarian, political and moral obligation to impose peace in this part of the world. there can be no military solution to the darfur crisis. it is urgently necessary to reopen a negotiating area and work towards a political agreement in which all the parties concerned will participate fully. this is the prerequisite for the people of darfur to support the peace process. this agreement must include the representation of the darfurians at the various levels of government, a real guarantee of the disarmament of the djendjawids and a guarantee of the safe return to their lands of the two million displaced persons and the 200,000 refugees. we also call for free and secure access for humanitarian officials to all conflict areas, and we call on the commission and the council to significantly increase the european union's humanitarian aid. we also call on the sudanese government to end its armed offensive and to accept the security council's decision to deploy a un peacekeeping operation to put an end to the violence. darfur needs europe now. we have no right here in the european parliament not to be at that meeting.
for the greens/efa group mr president, unfortunately, as regards darfur, the resolutions and declarations have been coming for several years now, and seemingly in vain. as has been said, the abuses continue, the violence is increasing, and women and children are the main victims of these crimes and atrocities. this situation is totally intolerable. in the face of this, a feeling of helplessness or fatalism seems to be developing, but we have a duty to mobilize now in order to achieve real progress on the ground. in fact, the longer the time goes by, the more the government in khartoum believes that it can get away with it and that, in the end, by playing it cool, by buying time, it will achieve its aims. so, if we want to act, three priorities seem to be necessary. firstly, the emergency of emergencies is access to refugees, because, indeed, right now, thousands of people are suffering from hunger, from violence, and no one can access these populations: this is the situation that must be unblocked urgently. secondly, the fight against impunity. it is intolerable that, despite the declarations, the attempts at sanctions, nothing has been done. criminals and those who get rich in the most spectacular way continue to act as if nothing had happened and little has been done about it. finally, of course, the establishment as soon as possible of a united nations force which can come to strengthen that of the african union, which nevertheless plays an important role which must be consolidated. so, of course, we are now calling on china and russia to play a positive role in this matter, when everyone knows that china and russia may not be the ideal models to be achieved in respect of human rights or the people who are affected by such conflicts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. finally, a word on the role of oil in this matter. let's not cover our faces. we know that oil fuels conflict, arouses greed, makes it possible to buy arms and also leads to blockage, particularly by china, which has very important interests in this area, and by all those, and the great powers in particular, who are now seeking increasingly feverishly for oil resources to which they can have easy access. we must therefore integrate the issue of access to oil resources into a much broader european and international framework.
mr president, everyone says: 'darfur is on the brink of collapse'. the warring parties continue to kill, rape. civilians are their daily targets. humanitarian workers are fleeing the field under pressure from intimidation and even murder, as 13 have died in recent weeks. the conflict threatens the entire subregion, extending into chad and the central african republic. everything seems ready today for the final assault. everything is ready for the massacre. the government is playing cat and mouse with the international community. a cruel game that costs hundreds of lives every day. since 2004, the union has spared no effort in financial terms, and this commitment has certainly helped to prevent the carnage. but a stronger political commitment is now essential. the priority is the rapid deployment of a united nations peacekeeping force, in accordance with resolution 1706, with a mandate to use force if necessary to protect civilians. but it's urgent, here and now, to protect the people. by forcing the sudanese authorities to cease their ongoing offensive and to implement the darfur peace agreement; strengthening the mandate and material resources of the african union forces in the area, which are currently not effectively providing a strong enough shield to protect civilians; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the air traffic control system is properly functioning. and if appeals to reason are not enough, well, there is room for sanctions: oil embargo, international arrest warrants, targeted individual sanctions against those responsible for atrocities and in particular the 51 people whose names are on the list submitted to the international criminal court. ladies and gentlemen, this parliament will not allow the first genocide of the 21st century to take place in silence and almost under its very eyes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as two sudanese survivors have told me, we must break the silence of the victims of the genocide. today, it is on behalf of the silent victims of the genocide in darfur that i come to you with a plea, a cry of distress. this is the member of parliament, but he is also the chairman of an international ngo very involved in darfur who is speaking to you. i'm part of a generation that swore to themselves that after the holocaust, there would never be another one. we say "never again" and it's time to talk about it again. are we to wait until all the peoples are exterminated to mourn them? how many deaths are we gonna start with? is there a minimum threshold of deported people to intervene? in fact, i think there are victims who will never get the grade. darfur is one of them. kofi annan said that darfur was hell. but it is hell to an unimaginable extent for populations tormented by genocidal militias in the pay of an illegitimate government. are we going to add to what is already a crime the crime of indifference? no, you can't! the executioners must know that we will not let them go because we cannot say we did not know. we know, but we don't act. europe has a strong role to play. europe must be a real force, and must take a more aggressive stance to demand an end to the abuses and massacres, to demand the deployment of peacekeepers to protect the civilian population in darfur. this can only be achieved through diplomatic work, a very strong international mobilization. for once, the military can intervene in a positive way to put itself between the murderers and the murdered. we must demand a solution from the militias, we must demand the delivery of humanitarian aid. let us hurry, as a number of my colleagues before me have said, because we are really witnessing the first genocide of the 21st century.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with just a few weeks to go until the next eu-india summit, europe's commitment to invest more in its cooperation with india is to be welcomed. this great democracy is one of our privileged partners in asia, but above all it is a player with ever-increasing regional and global responsibilities. that is why i thank my colleague mr karim for pointing out that our relations with india are not limited to trade but are rich in deep cooperation in a multitude of areas. india has undertaken significant reforms to promote the millennium development goals, although this may at times seem insufficient. it has been committed to environmental protection, the application of international labour law standards, the fight against poverty and the fight against aids. such initiatives must be encouraged and supported by a strong political will and financial means commensurate with the needs of this continent. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european research council, the establishment of a european research council, and the establishment of a european research council. let us not forget that our relations must be guided by the notion of partnership and mutual exchange. so we cannot look at india as just a vast pool of cheap labour. the optimistic vision we have of our future cooperation with india must not hide a still difficult reality. as this report points out, some sectors of the indian economy are very fragile. i am thinking in particular of agriculture, which is suffering the consequences of unchecked trade liberalization. i am therefore surprised - and i agree with what has been said by various members - that a free trade agreement is being proposed. not only would such a decision be premature, but i must remind you that the european union has committed itself to act as a priority in the doha round. to speak now of supporting bilateral negotiations would be contrary to the principles we have been asserting for months and would be a very bad signal for the multilateral structure we are so eager to see. i'm wrapping this up. if we are indeed aiming at trade for development, then our trade relations must be designed in a concerted and gradual manner within a rational and predictable framework with our partner.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, allow me to congratulate my colleague, mr pedro guerreiro, on his report, which is remarkable and very comprehensive. let's get this straight. the fisheries sector in general, and small-scale fishing in particular, is in danger of dying in europe. if nothing is done, there will be no more small-scale fishermen in the union in 15 years. if there are no more artisanal fishermen, all tourist and economic activity, from auction sales to specialized catering, will disappear at the same time. without the presence of those who are above all lovers of the sea, it is very likely that the territorial waters of the member states will in this case be left to the extortion of the lawless pirates of the sea. how can we fail to understand the desire of some to see fishing disappear, when we know that the disappearance of certain fishing ports could open up prospects for the development of the pleasure-boat fleet which would not leave indifferent the particularly influential economic and financial interests? to support my point and to prove that the aim is indeed to undermine fishing, i would ask you to refer to the commission's scandalous and criminal decision, which terminated the fund for the prevention of fisheries accidents in france, on the pretext of distortion of competition, at the very moment when the price of diesel fuel has been rising steadily, putting the whole of the industry in great difficulty. this fund for the prevention of fisheries hazards should have been extended to the whole of the union, as the report recommends, and not prohibited by the commission. i also think it is necessary to require that the buying agencies for large areas set prices which take account of the real costs incurred by the artisanal fishermen. in conclusion, it seems to me important, in order to reverse the trend and save european fisheries, that we adopt this report and above all that the commission implements very quickly the proposals it contains.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like, in a telegraphic way, to respond to and summarise what i think is the message from today’s debate concerning innovation, funding, risks, ethics and the regulatory framework. i shall take them one by one. on innovation, there is no doubt that nanosciences and nanotechnologies have a very high potential. nanosciences are very much like information technology. so a breakthrough in this area would provide results for all sectors. that is why it is very important to pay close attention to innovation. if we were to compare ourselves to the united states, we would find that in many areas we are not lagging behind. however, the one area in which we are truly lagging behind is information technology. if you look at how much money we provide for innovation, research and development, you would find that even structurally, not just globally, we are lagging behind. we should not make the same mistake when it comes to innovation. we are trying to engage european technology platforms, joint technology initiatives – in which we are very active – and the companies from that area. i agree that the intellectual property issue, ipr, is also important and that is why it has received special attention in the action plan. let me now turn to funding. we have two themes which are dealing with that very seriously. one is, of course, nanosciences and nanotechnologies and the other is information and communication technologies. however, there is more than that. there are also the questions that will be dealt with in the european research council, in the people programme, in the capacities programme, and in infrastructure – the things connected with regional development. so it is very hard to compare the money that was devoted today to fp6 with the money that will be used in fp7. what i can tell you is that the funding will be increased considerably in comparison with the existing situation. again, if we compare the funding in europe to that in the united states, we must not forget that the framework programme is 5% of european public funding. therefore, it is obvious, if you compare how much public funding is provided for nanosciences, that it is 30% of that public funding in europe. obviously, we are giving it proportionally much higher attention than the member states are doing. that has to be clearly underlined. secondly, in normal circumstances, two thirds of funding should come from the private sector, where we have to focus our attention. so here one of the things we found out – and it was published in august 2006 – was what the decisive elements are according to the companies doing the research in the area of europe: first, the existence of the market; and second, the knowledge pool , not the wage level. the wage level is almost irrelevant when we talk about knowledge and research and development. these are the areas which need attention. thirdly, concerning the risks, it is true that we do not know everything and it would be hypocritical to say that we do, because it is not true. however, we know a lot, and i agree with all those who said that we need to pay proper attention to that in fp7. in the action plan we have also paid proper attention to the questions connected with the risks. informal collection of inputs for further projects under fp7 has recently been completed. it is also extremely important that the way in which we approach questions of risk should be transparent and that we educate people in the proper way. concerning ethics, it is quite clear that we have to maintain the high ethical standards and principles that we have always followed and pay proper attention to that. finally, on the regulatory framework, regulatory issues again form an integral part of the action plan. they are concentrated there and the commission is working in close collaboration with research dgs and dgs active in regulatory aspects, and with external experts, with a view to addressing various uncertainties with regard to potential hazards and exposure, to addressing gaps in knowledge, and to further developing guidelines and methods. the adequacy of existing and future legislation with regard to nanotechnology products is also being examined carefully. to summarise, without any doubt we need a balanced approach, which is transparent, with a high level of care for public health, safety, the environment and consumer protection, but aimed at exploiting the huge potential of nanosciences and nanotechnologies in research and innovation. today’s report was a very good opportunity to underline all these components of our approach and i should like to thank honourable members for their attention to these issues, for the support given to our work and for the concerns they have raised.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today.
the next item is the report by mr alain hutchinson, on behalf of the committee on development, on 'more cooperation, better cooperation: the 2006 package on the effectiveness of union aid' (2006/2208 (ini)) (a6-0270/2006).
member of the commission. mr president, i speak on behalf of my colleague, mr michel, who is unable to be here this morning. i wish to begin by expressing my thanks to the rapporteur, mr hutchinson, and the committee on development for a constructive report on aid effectiveness, a topic of key importance for the eu development policy. improving both the quantity and the quality of our aid is certainly one of the core commitments set out in the european consensus for development, the latter having been endorsed by all member states, the commission and parliament in 2005. the consensus is a crucial document for all of us. first, it opens a new dimension for joint work between the 25 member states and the commission. secondly, it highlights, for the first time in eu history, our collective european vision, principles and objectives that govern our development policy. thirdly, it sets out the comparative advantage of the commission and the objective of redeploying member states’ activities in order to achieve better and highly necessary synergy. as demonstrated during all the debates on the european consensus, the commission should promote the impact of europe in development and push the european aid effectiveness agenda. the european union must be a leading force in international fora dealing with aid effectiveness, in particular in the oecd/dac, where the commission enjoys full statutory membership. a strong eu makes for a strong dac. it is with this in mind that commissioner michel has proposed a package of concrete deliverables on aid effectiveness, which were endorsed by the council in spring 2006. the commission’s approach to aid effectiveness is based on lessons learnt from the field, good practices and expectations from the partner countries. it is rooted in the principles of harmonisation, ownership, alignment and management by results, as in the paris declaration. parliament has made it clear in previous resolutions and again in this report that it supports the commission in its efforts to strengthen the coordination and coherence of both commission and eu actions in the development field. the report highlights three important areas in which progress needs to be achieved in 2007 and i would like to comment on them briefly. first, strengthening complementarity and the division of labour: these issues are crucial for the commission. the eu donor atlas has indeed underlined the gaps and duplications in donor activities which hamper the impact of aid. in order to address these weaknesses, the commission launched a process with member states aimed at adopting operational principles for a better division of labour between eu donors. discussions are currently ongoing and this initiative should be rendered operational with council conclusions in 2007. second, the joint programming of aid: the eu now has at its disposal a joint framework adopted last spring. this framework foresees the drawing-up of common diagnostics and analysis in partner countries, in close partnership with member states involved, to establish common operational solutions. partner countries and civil society play a major and active role in this process. far from being excluded from these discussions, civil society is strongly involved in the country diagnostic set up in order to ensure its full ownership. this approach is fully in line with the approach used in ec programming. thirdly, a few words on an essential tool for improving the division of labour and coordination, that is, cofinancing. in 2007, the commission will bring forward specific proposals on how to strengthen the use of cofinancing as a tool to support the division of labour amongst donors, as well as to assist those member states building their development capacities. parliament has been persistent in its well-founded requests to the commission to ensure coordination among member states in order to strengthen the effectiveness of financing for development. as you can see, the commission has clearly adopted a proactive attitude and will, in close collaboration with member states, use all tools at its disposal to make greater aid effectiveness a reality. i can only advocate that the european parliament uses the joint meeting on development with the national parliaments next october as an opportunity to expand support for these initiatives. indeed, it is important for the eu to ensure that its political ambitions match its financial status as the largest global donor. in this respect, parliament has a crucial role to play in helping member states to accelerate their reforms and make the necessary cultural changes implied by this new joint working dimension. success on this front is of major importance for reaching our development goals, as well as taking the lead on the global development agenda. let us recall that the ultimate objective is to succeed in the fight against poverty. it is only by acting together and by making the best possible use of all the means at our disposal that success can be guaranteed. thanks to the european consensus, we now have all the necessary tools to achieve this goal. we must make sure that these commitments remain high on our political agenda and that we do not miss this real opportunity to turn our ambitious political commitments into reality. it goes beyond politics; it is a matter of collective credibility.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, alain hutchinson, for the quality of his work on this important and very sensitive subject for our future. 2005 was a year of decisive developments in the field of development aid. if the mobilization is now real, let us put our speeches into practice. in this context, we can only welcome the efforts made by the european union and some member states to substantially increase development aid. but while it is clear that financial resources are essential for effective aid, this cannot be enough. thus, close monitoring of development practices is required to fully measure the implementation of these policies. development aid must be qualitatively ambitious, in line with financial ambition, in order to achieve concrete effects in poverty reduction. i would stress the importance of the introduction of innovative financing mechanisms, which will allow stable and predictable resources to be raised. i welcome the creation of unitaid at the last united nations summit, which will make it easier for developing countries to access medicines. today, when this mechanism is in its infancy, let us hope that it will prove fully effective and that it will bring many countries, such as france, behind those already involved. the european union must play the leading role in the better distribution of development aid tasks. this coordination must be done both at the level of the european union and on the ground, involving the beneficiary populations. the package of measures for effective aid is a first step. the european union and its member states share the same ambition for development. so let us all rise to the challenge of effective and transparent aid by sticking to our commitments.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
i think the applause is a sign of the solidarity of the colleagues with your remarks.
all this will be forwarded to the competent bodies.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
is there any objection to this amendment being taken into account? (the oral amendment was accepted)
voting time is closed.
in writing. every day, a growing number of canoes and lifeboats from senegal, mali, mauritania and the gambia are washing up on the canary islands. in total, some 300 000 africans are believed to be entering the eu illegally each year. the european leaders are obliged to wake up to the scale of the phenomenon and are beginning to be moved, without denouncing it, by the disastrous consequences of the criminal schengen agreements and the formidable air appeals of the mass legalisation of the undocumented in spain or italy (more than 1 150 000 foreigners legalised by spain since 1985). at the moment, the european union is only lecturing spain because of its regulations, which are considered too "lax". it is obviously not a question of changing the laws on immigration and asylum, as in the case of switzerland, which, with 68% of the vote, has just voted for a new law on immigration and a tightening of the conditions for access to asylum, thus adopting one of the most restrictive legislation in europe. the time for submission and passivity must end. the solution to stop this overwhelming immigration is now to re-establish borders, zero immigration and stop naturalizations.
in writing. illegal immigration seems to be a concern for european leaders. it's about time! it is true that only since 1995 and the disastrous schengen agreements has the national front ceaselessly warned and denounced the inevitable damage caused by the abolition of internal border controls in the union. it took spain to see the record number of over 25 000 african immigrants disembark in the canary islands since january and the italian coastguard to take over 12 000 immigrants to refugee camps on the small island of lampedusa in southern sicily in nine months for all european governments and our european leaders to become concerned about the irresistible and exponentially increasing migratory surge in europe. europe is exposed as being incapable of managing its maritime and land borders. and it is not the "gadget" of frontex, the eu's external border coordination agency, which shines with its slowness, lack of manpower and resources, that will provide an effective response to immigration-invasion. let us re-establish europe's internal borders and remove the vacuum pumps of immigration, which are first and foremost the regularisation of illegal immigrants. these are the essential preconditions for an immediate halt to this flood of immigration.
in writing. we voted against the two resolutions which were proposed to us. these, with certain nuances, noted the difficulty of controlling the entry and movement of illegal immigrants, without however ever mentioning the fact that this difficulty results precisely from the abolition of national borders. the resolution also takes up the idea, shared by mr sarkozy, of the total abolition of the unanimous vote for justice and home affairs, that is to say, of the sovereignty of the states over their territory. it is also making european integration the solution to the problem it poses. those who today in this parliament, as the epp is doing, are trying to contain immigration are in fact pyromaniacal firemen: we should not have accepted the schengen treaty with the abolition of fixed internal border controls, we should not have accepted the amsterdam treaty, that is to say the com munitization of the bulk of asylum, visa and immigration policies, including the fight against illegal immigration. the doors have been opened to uncontrolled immigration, while the powers of the member states have been taken away and transferred to a union which is necessarily paralysed.
in writing. the massive influx of illegal migrants to the canary islands has reminded public opinion and governments of the serious and complex problems posed by illegal immigration. i would remind my european colleagues that this is not a new phenomenon for french overseas departments, particularly mayotte, french guiana, martinique and guadeloupe, because of their proximity to some of the poorest countries in the world. mayotte is only a few nautical miles from the comoros, and the guyanese border is a territory of equatorial forest that is difficult to control. this is how much the outermost regions, including the canary islands and the dom, would benefit from a common immigration policy. i believe it is essential that the european parliament should focus on five aspects of this future policy: better targeted development aid, the establishment of partnerships with countries of origin, border security and the fight against human trafficking, the strengthening of the return policy, and better integration of legal migrants into the host society. we need clear rules, with concrete and operational priorities. the european union can no longer be satisfied with declarations of intent.
in writing. i must congratulate my colleague, mrs breyer, on her report. i can only agree with its conclusions, which call for, and i quote, 'a radical change in the trade policies of the european union'. it took a report from the committee on women's rights for the rights of women, but also of all workers, to be taken into account in the current globalisation that brussels wants and suffers from. it is almost naïve of the rapporteur to discover that competitive pressure in an increasingly globalised economy leads to lower wages, lower operating costs, unemployment, relocations and closures of firms. the figures are very worrying: 70% of the 1.3 billion people living in poverty worldwide are women. however, i must admit that it is useful to point out here that gender inequality, particularly in asia and africa, where women are humiliated, disregarded and considered inferior to men, obviously creates difficulties in the economic, commercial, social and political spheres. first of all, it is obvious that the very status of women must be reviewed immediately in all these countries where the law of the koran is often the prevailing law.
in writing. between economic difficulties, stock depletion and tight controls, european fisheries are in a bad way. mediterranean fishermen are hit hard. it is high time the european union learned from this! this report contains a number of positive guidelines, the fruit of our joint efforts with the fishermen of my region and the support of my political group. first, it calls on the european commission to 'review its copy' and to make more concrete and ambitious proposals to respond to the seriousness of the crisis in the sector. it then supports fishermen's professional organisations and their participation (co-management) in the implementation of the cfp and the improvement of resource management. finally, it incorporates several of our amendments to protect small-scale fisheries in the mediterranean. as such, i shall vote in favour of this report, which is a strong political signal for an ambitious policy of the european union. i would have liked, however, for the european parliament to go further and ask for a specific programme for fisheries in the mediterranean. our amendment to that effect was rejected. we're not going to stop there. the fight continues alongside the fishermen of my region.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, there are not many of us in this chamber, which does not mean that we are not discussing serious matters, far from it. i am speaking on behalf of three political groups and more than that, my colleague and friend mr lehne was also speaking on behalf of three political groups. commissioner, this debate is an initiative of the european parliament and is the result of our desire to respond positively to your consultation. we thank you and congratulate you. after the difficulties we have encountered with regard to the patentability of software, we were pleased that, through you, by you, the commission is launching the procedure to relaunch the reflection and preparatory work on the european patent. we had a lot of problems, commissioner, and we had disagreements on a number of points. i've just been listening to you with the utmost attention. i can say that i agree with almost everything you have just said. i agree with you completely, but there is one argument you have not mentioned, and it is your silence that makes me question myself and, for the moment, leaves those i represent in rather negative expectation, as long as we have not found a solution. let me explain a little bit more. we all here in europe want the community patent. i share this with my colleague and friend mr lehne, who has just spoken with the eloquence that we all know him for. we all know that this patent has run into enormous difficulties and is blocked. the main blockage is linguistic. in reality, the four blocking factors are the language problem, the cost problem, the problem of the jurisprudential coherence of the judicial organization and the problem of sovereignty, the one you have not mentioned. i sincerely believe that the real political, cultural and intellectual unblocking at council level on the european patent is essentially linked to the language problem. i am not only a pro-european mep like my colleague mr lehne, i am also french. nobody's perfect, you'll have to forgive me. i will say here that i think that the ratification of the london agreement - a ratification that my country has not yet officially requested, but i recommend it - would be an opportunity for all of us to overcome our linguistic arrogance and the ensuing hostility and to learn to live together, knowing that one language dominates the others on a global level. we don't like it, but it's the way it is, it's a convenience. this would potentially solve the impasse in opening up the prospect of a community patent. we would therefore agree that the resolution which emerges from these debates should say so. the second problem is that of cost, which i will not mention much, except to say that three quarters of the cost factor is linguistic - that is the problem i am going to address - and that the remaining quarter is modest, that the epa probably needs to be improved and that it is scandalous to imagine ratifying an agreement which many experts say would increase costs. we don't need this. the only problem you have not mentioned is the question of what legislative sovereignty defines and evolves over time the field of what is patentable and what is not. this parliament, commissioner, will be extremely sensitive to everything relating to the patentability of living matter, a decisive problem of civilization. moreover, as regards software, we cannot ratify the epla, because the epla gives a professional group of judges a partly global, partly european function: that of developing case law as they see fit, without legislative control, a sovereignty weighing on their action. that is what we do not accept: the idea that european sovereignty is not able to define the field. therefore, since the epla is a constitution of autonomous courts blocking, holding back the implementation of the european patent, we say no to the epla and recommend that you ...
mr president, if that is a problem, i will do it myself. we are asking for a change in the agenda, in fact for a headline in the agenda. that's all, and we're telling you now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mr swoboda. it's true that there's only one day left. the reason is that since anna politkovskaya was murdered, we have been asking for this and it has been blocked by various factions. that is why it was only made possible today by this vote, because throughout the whole preparation certain groups - including your group - have always said no to this amendment. it's true, it is difficult. we're fine with doing it next week. but admit that you're to blame for this because you've been blocking that question all along. it's got to be said. (applause from the centre)
for the greens/efa group mr president, i am a national of a country which is a 'dealer' in nuclear technology. how hypocritical, then, to be surprised that this danger should reappear after being scattered to every wind! that said, i shall concentrate on north korea, which i do not care whether it has a really advanced nuclear technology or a suitable nuclear carrier. i am one of the few meps who have been to north korea. this country is not just a brutal dictatorship that plunges its people into total misery. you have to realize that millions of people live there completely disconnected from reality, ignorant of the outside world. they live on their knees to a leader who tells them every morning that the whole world wants to invade them. we're looking at a world that would be very similar to george orwell's. so what are the sanctions in these circumstances, when we are addressing a regime which is outside the common logic, which is making a mockery of its own people, since it allowed a million people to die only a short time ago? block what when they're already cut off from the world? what industry to destroy when it's already in ruins? try to starve them more? that would be totally undignified. in my view, the only non-virtual card we can play is china, china that created this regime, china that has maintained it, china - it is very interesting to note - that was among the first, if not the first, to denounce this week's explosion. if we are to be really useful in this matter, we must show determination, a lot of coolness and i also believe, particularly because we are disseminating nuclear technology, a lot of humility. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank you warmly for the opportunity to discuss the informal meeting of heads of state in lahti on 20 october. we ended up organising the lahti meeting because we wanted to give the heads of state of the union the opportunity to have an open and free debate on two subjects which are important for the future and economic success of the union: innovation and external energy relations. we need a coherent and strong policy both in terms of creating an enabling environment for innovation and in energy matters. this will help to improve the conditions for economic growth and employment in the union. when the union acts concretely for the welfare of the people, we can also expect the union to be more acceptable to the citizens. a coherent common energy policy will also strengthen the union's credibility as an international actor. the commission will prepare the discussions of the meeting of heads of state or government to guide two communications, one on external relations in the energy sector and the other on innovation policy. the notices will be published tomorrow, 12 october. they are not intended to be adopted at the meeting, but they do indicate the issues we want to tackle in the gulf. the informal meeting of heads of state or government in lahti will be preceded by an informal tripartite social summit on friday morning. how europe's labour market of 200 million workers functions and adapts to change is central to europe's future. the social partners therefore play a key role in strengthening europe's competitiveness. russian president vladimir putin has been invited to the gulf for a post-summit dinner. the talks with the president are to focus on the eu-russia strategic partnership, including cooperation on energy issues. mr president, the major challenges facing the union in the field of energy - security of energy supply, climate change, the continuing rise in energy prices and the recent crises - have given impetus to the development of a common eu energy policy. the eu's growing dependence on energy imports is a particular challenge in securing its energy supply. it is estimated that, in the absence of measures, the import dependency will increase from 50% to 70% over the next 20 years. before the finnish presidency, the development of the common energy policy was discussed at the two european council meetings earlier this year. the finnish part of the meeting will focus on external energy relations and will build on the broad energy debate to be held next spring, leading to the adoption of the energy policy action programme. although the focus of the gulf talks will be on external energy relations, it is clear that our external relations objectives cannot be considered as a separate issue. there is a close link between all the priority areas of energy policy identified in the green paper. other areas deal with the internal energy market, solidarity between member states, diversification of energy sources, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, and energy innovation. external energy policy must achieve a common understanding and vision among member states of the basis of strategy for relations with non-eu countries and of the eu's common external objectives. this means that the member states must be able to commit themselves to a commonly agreed approach to bilateral relations and to speak with one voice in these contacts. by committing to common objectives, the union is also better prepared to face the changes in the world energy market. the gulf energy summit will be an exchange of views on how external energy relations could be developed in the near future. the discussions will focus on three main themes: firstly, the principles underlying the eu-russia energy relationship and the implementation of these principles; secondly, closer relations with strategically important third countries; and thirdly, better data collection as a basis for decision-making on the common energy policy. russia, which accounts for 25% of both oil and gas imports, is the union's most important strategic energy partner. in all strategic partnerships, including with russia, it is important to find a mutual interest in developing the partnership. the eu-russia energy relationship is characterised by a common interest: the eu is dependent on russian energy imports, while russia needs not only long-term, market-price agreements for its energy exports, but also western investment in basic energy production. opening up the market in one way or another is the key factor. the eu heads of state or government's discussions will also build on the discussions with russian president vladimir putin later in the evening, one of the key themes of which will be energy issues. the aim is to convey to russia the eu's commitment to a binding framework for energy agreements that takes into account the interests of both parties, reciprocity and a level playing field. the eu and russia will also be faced with common challenges, such as energy efficiency, which both sides have to overcome. the extension of the principles of the energy common market to the eu's neighbouring regions and the development of relations with strategically important third countries are desirable in terms of security of energy supply. 80% of the world's oil reserves are located in the regions surrounding the union. there are a wide range of instruments for developing relations with third countries, such as the neighbourhood policy action programmes, the energy cooperation agreement, bilateral agreements and regional agreements. energy policy must be one of the pillars of the union's common foreign and security policy. the european union needs sufficient information to pursue a more coherent energy policy. it must also be able to respond to external energy crises and emergencies. the union should also set up a system to increase cooperation between member states and institutions and to improve solidarity on energy issues. the second main topic of the meeting of the heads of state or government is the development of innovation policy. the european research work needs to be better able to be exploited as commercial goods and services. the union must also be able to adopt new technologies as effectively as our competitors. if we continue with current practices, the innovation gap with the union's main trading partners will only increase. in particular, the production of emerging economies is increasingly competing with europe not only in industry but also in the service sectors. china and india are training significantly more highly qualified people for their labour markets than the eu. however, emerging market economies also represent a huge export potential for the union. success can only come from the ability to create new things, that is, from innovation. in an open market, the best commodities thrive. it is impossible to stay on top of the market without continuous investment in research and product development. the union's member states have committed themselves to increasing their investment in research and development in the future, on the basis of decisions already taken in the past. however, it is vital to ensure that europe is able to exploit investments in such a way that research leads to new and better commercially exploitable goods and services. the purpose of the lahti meeting is to highlight issues and challenges where there is a need for joint action by the union. the aim is to create an environment in which innovation is both generated and effectively used. the european parliament has also stressed the importance of innovation policy in its opinions on the lisbon strategy. the creation of an eu-wide ipr strategy is essential to support effective innovation. intellectual property rights are of great importance for the success and competitiveness of enterprises. the key issue is, among other things, the quality of patents, which is the basic principle of a functioning and reliable patent system. as the president, we believe that europe must have a patent system which is cost-effective but which also respects quality, regardless of the alternative on which this system is based. if we can develop the patent system further, companies will be guaranteed substantial savings in the cost of patenting, which will encourage innovation and research in europe. better cooperation between universities and the business world is a prerequisite for the success of innovation policy. the commission will be presenting a proposal next week for a new european institute of technology based on a network model. excellence will be the hallmark of the partnership between science, enterprise and education. the focus will be on promoting innovation. as the presidency, we believe that through the european institute of technology, europe can make more effective use of the opportunities that already exist in business and the scientific community. the cooperation between the private and public sectors must also be improved in order to promote competitiveness. europe has developed so-called european technology platforms, business-oriented strategic research initiatives that are excellent examples of private-public partnerships. the companies have thankfully indicated their willingness to invest in the platforms of their choice, and a corresponding commitment is now required from the public research funder. accelerating the development of european standards in the union would be of great importance for innovation. without a common european standard, many innovations may go unused. what would the european mobile phone market have been like without the gsm standard, for example? the creation of pan-european technical standards for mobile phones made it possible in practice for europe to become a world leader in this field. on the other hand, if purely national standards had been adopted as the basis for the development of mobile phones, the success would not have been as significant and geographically extensive. the rapid establishment of open and compatible standards is one of the keys to the success of enterprises. this also brings clear benefits for consumers. at the same time, it strengthens our competitive position and responds to rapid technological developments, so that technical development solutions developed in europe can genuinely compete with development work carried out elsewhere in the world. mr president, illegal immigration is a problem affecting the whole of the european union. that's why we have to find solutions together. solidarity is best expressed in the effective implementation of concrete measures. at the gulf summit we will discuss illegal immigration, which has become a particular problem in the mediterranean and in the southern region of the union. we believe it is important that the union is able to create a comprehensive and effective immigration management policy which takes into account both illegal and legal immigration issues, including integration. we need to make effective use of existing instruments and consider new ways of supporting countries of origin and transit in their efforts to prevent illegal immigration. the immigration issues have been raised during the finnish presidency in all justice and home affairs councils. the issue will also be discussed at the informal dinner of development cooperation ministers next week. the work of the ministers for justice and home affairs will also prepare the european council in december for decisions that will enable the european union to respond effectively to the problem of illegal immigration. the serious situation in sudan/darfur will also be highlighted during the working lunch in the gulf. as i said at the beginning, after the informal meeting of eu heads of state, they will have dinner in lahti with russian president vladimir putin. the dinner provides an excellent opportunity for informal discussion on the development of the eu-russia strategic partnership. the range of our cooperation is very wide and includes sectors where the partnership can be further developed. international issues are an example of this. this autumn's international agenda includes issues where our cooperation is of great importance, such as the middle east, iran and kosovo. energy is an important aspect of the strategic partnership and we look forward to hearing president putin's assessment of the development of his country's energy sector and the eu-russia energy partnership. mr president, we were all shocked to hear of the death of anna politkovskaya, a well-known journalist and defender of freedom of expression. we demand a thorough investigation of this heinous crime and the bringing to justice of those responsible, which is particularly important for the development of the rule of law in russia. in addition to being a shocking event and a loss to those close to him, politkovskaya's death is also a setback for the development of freedom of speech in russia. in the light of recent events, it is also worthwhile that there should be an active and open dialogue between the european union and russia. as i said earlier, the strategic partnership will cover all the important issues.
president of the commission. mr president, the informal european council next week comes at a good time. i should like to thank the finnish presidency, prime minister vanhanen and all his team for their very important contribution. since the minister made such a comprehensive presentation on behalf of the presidency, i will focus on innovation, energy policy and immigration. i will also make a few remarks about relations between the european union and russia. these are all issues in respect of which the challenges we face require not just a national response, but a european response; challenges which show why, more than ever, a strong european union is necessary, and why we need the union to equip europeans for globalisation. i welcome the presidency’s decision to focus on innovation. finland is a prime example of how innovation can boost economic growth. however, it is more than that. it is only by unlocking people’s imaginations that we can tackle the major issues facing us today, such as climate change, social exclusion, demographic change and unemployment. even though i know you know the figures, they are worth repeating. european union spending on research is equivalent to 1.9% of its gdp, whereas the united states currently spends 3% of its gdp. it is indicative that most of the recent nobel prize winners come from or work in the united states. in europe about half of all researchers are employed by business. in the united states, that figure stands at over 80%. the truth is that europe is falling behind in terms of innovation and research. the status quo is not an option: we need to do more in this matter. we urgently need a strategic approach which focuses on each link in the innovation chain, from the birth of new ideas and knowledge right through to their exploitation and marketing in the economic sphere. the communication which the commission will present at the informal summit in lahti sets out such an approach. it pinpoints the weak links in the chain and puts forward solutions. we need financing, we need the right intellectual property framework to bring the right rewards and we need to tackle obstacles to innovation sector by sector. above all, we need to start with a strong political message of commitment: innovation deserves encouragement, and we need a european approach for it. size matters on this issue. one of the big differences between us and the united states is that we have no pan-european institutions for innovation and research. the united states is much more committed to a real global approach. there are great institutions supporting innovation throughout the united states, not just in one or two states. until now, we had nothing in europe. now we have the european research council and we are proposing the establishment of a european institute of technology. we are proposing a network system to lend a real european dimension and a real european mission to those institutions. that is why we are insisting on this approach. that is the importance of the european institute of technology. it will bring the private and public sectors closer together for cutting-edge research, become a centre of international excellence, bring together the top brains, provide a stream of top class phds and promote spin-offs of innovative small and medium-sized enterprises. in short, it can become a symbol of europe’s ability to work together and innovate. we have been developing the finer details of the eit over recent months and we will bring forward a detailed proposal next week. i am confident that the heads of state and government and the parliamentarians here in the european parliament will look at it in the spirit in which it is designed: yes, it is something a little different, but something which can provide an example of europe taking a fresh direction and finding new ways to work together. one of the fields in which i think we as european leaders can give a mission to a european institute of technology is that of energy and climate change. when we have a problem that we need help to solve, we should ask the best scientists, the best brains on our continent. energy is one of the most important challenges we have today. let me now turn to the issue of energy and let me make it plain: we need to create a truly european energy policy, not 25 energy policies. it is absurd in the 21st century to go on with 25 or 27 energy policies. we need a truly european energy policy. the problems we face – high energy prices, climate change, increasing dependence on imported hydrocarbons – are global and european problems. they need european solutions. national solutions will not be enough. at hampton court last year, european union leaders agreed to develop a common approach. in our green paper of march 2006, the commission defined clear objectives for a european energy policy, long-term sustainability, security of energy supply and economic competitiveness. the member states have endorsed our approach, and the reaction from stakeholders to our green paper has been overwhelmingly positive. the next step is a strategic energy review which the commission will propose at the very beginning of next year. i look forward to reading the european parliament’s report on it. it is obvious that we need coherence between the internal and external aspects of energy policy. we clearly need an effective internal market in energy. having 25 or 27 different energy mini-markets is not the answer to the european energy challenges. however, we must link internal and external policy. our paper for lahti will look at the three external challenges: russia, which i will return to; developing our energy relations with our neighbours; and creating a network to deal with external energy shocks. it is essential to build up energy cooperation with strategically important supply and transit countries. this is already happening with initiatives such as the new energy community treaty and the memorandum of understanding on energy cooperation with ukraine. we need to extend the principles of the internal energy market gradually throughout our neighbourhood. we also need to join the different areas of expertise which exist around europe to create a more effective network to deal with external energy shocks. of course, in the medium term, the best way to cope with energy shocks is through diversity: diversity of energy sources, of country of origin and of country of transit. indeed, we need to mainstream energy to make it a major focus of our relations with partners worldwide. finally, energy efficiency is another crucial element of this strategy. i can announce to you today that next week commissioner piebalgs – the commissioner for energy – and i will propose an ambitious action plan to fulfil our commitment to save 20% of primary energy use by 2020. naturally, with 25% of the oil and gas consumed in the european union coming from russia, energy cooperation with russia is crucial. the president-in-office of the council just explained why it is important. we must have a reinforced energy partnership with russia. such a partnership must be based on reciprocity, transparency, non-discrimination and openness to competition, including a level playing field for upstream and downstream investment. this is the only way to have a stable and secure platform for our energy relationship. the meeting with president putin will be a chance to deliver a clear and hopefully coherent message from european union leaders. we see three long-term objectives in our relations with russia: we want to see a functioning democracy and market economy in which russia lives up to the international commitments it has undertaken; we want to see a broad and strategic eu-russia relationship based on interdependence – russia needs the european union and the european union also needs russia – and we want to enhance our cooperation with russia on international issues. when we talk about effective multilateralism, this is what we mean. we have set our goal of a wide-ranging agreement to follow the current partnership and cooperation agreement. there are mutual benefits to be realised in areas such as investment and market-opening, as well as in energy and energy efficiency. we both have so much to gain from a real partnership. i also take this opportunity to express my deepest sympathy with the family of anna politkovskaya, who was so brutally murdered last week. i want to pay tribute to her relentless pursuit of truth. she was a great defender of freedom of expression in russia. (applause) i sincerely hope that the perpetrators of this heinous crime will be found and brought to justice. another point we are going to address is that of immigration. the massive arrival of illegal immigrants at the frontiers of the european union’s southern member states is a european problem that requires a european solution. in november 2006, the commission presented a communication with a series of practical proposals for the european union to respond to this challenge. on that basis, the european council adopted a global approach to migration, outlining in detail how to respond in its internal and external policies. in less than a year we have seen the start of a lot of practical action: joint operations in the mediterranean and the atlantic under the coordination of the borders agency, frontex; enhanced cooperation among the law-enforcement services of the member states; better coordination of the work of the immigration liaison offices in africa; and dialogue with key african countries of origin and transit, both bilaterally and multilaterally. for the first time, member states are working together in joint operations protecting the european union’s external borders under the coordination of frontex. however, let us be frank: it is not enough; much more is needed to tackle the illegal flows effectively. in order to strengthen the european union’s response capacity, it is of the utmost importance that all member states of the union work together in a spirit of solidarity, not least to assist those member states that are, let us say, in the front line. with a view to the informal european council to be held in lahti on 20 october, i have written personally to the heads of state and government underlining the need for such solidarity. of course, the ideal would be to have already established the community instruments, but we have not got them yet. of course, the ideal would be to have a european migration policy. it is absurd to have 25 or 27 migration policies in an area in which people can move around freely, because decisions taken by one country have a direct effect on the other countries. but before we have a true community method to tackle these issues, we at least expect member states to cooperate well among themselves. (applause) we believe this is also a practical example of european solidarity. we also need to work much more intensively with the countries of origin and transit. the implementation of the action plan agreed in rabat in july is a key priority. the commission will work hard to ensure proper implementation in close partnership with the countries concerned. let us also be frank about this. security matters are not enough. the solution to this problem will come only with our support for sustainable development in africa. by the way, i think we have to engage in a high-level dialogue with african countries. is it not strange that the european union has dialogue with asia and latin america at the level of heads of state and government, but not with africa? is it not about time now for europe to make a commitment to establishing a high-level dialogue with africa? i believe we have the right and the duty to do so. that was the message i took recently to our counterparts in the african union commission in addis ababa. that is why we are also actively engaged – via our cooperation with our african partners – in looking collectively at this issue. in european terms, we also need a european union decision-making process. when there are urgent and serious problems, the european union needs to be able to react appropriately. this means using the bridging clause in article 67 of the treaty. we cannot deny ourselves the means to deliver effective action. to conclude, the informal european council meeting in lahti provides a good opportunity to take stock of the current european union actions in the fields i have outlined and in several other fields as well. we are looking for a renewed commitment from the heads of state and government to deliver solutions to the real and pressing problems of the citizens of the european union, and to deliver a europe of results so that we can have more confidence to solve some of the very important problems in our union. let me give you a final thought. a week ago i was in darfur. amidst the terrible conditions experienced by the people there, i saw something that i resolved to tell my friends back in brussels: in the ngos and other humanitarian organisations, there are so many young europeans, so far from their homes, putting their lives at risk every day to help africans. this is the kind of europe of which i think we should be proud; a europe that is ready to deliver solidarity and help, showing great courage. that is the kind of europe i believe we all want: an open, outward-looking, generous europe. that is the europe we should strive for. (applause)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, we are shocked and appalled by the murder of anna politkovskaya and we have many questions about the reasons for this crime. it is essential that the russian authorities be able to shed light on this tragedy as soon as possible and we expect the council to send a message of firmness in the face of this new blow to a profession which, every year, pays a heavy price for its exercise. let me pay tribute, through anna politkovskaya, to all the journalists around the world who risk their lives to defend the freedom of expression that we hold so dear. the informal lahti council on 20 october will once again be an opportunity to raise recurring issues such as competitiveness, innovation, immigration and energy policy. i fear that competitiveness and innovation will suffer the same fate as sustainable development: everyone talks about it, everyone agrees with it, but when it comes to doing something, good principles are lost. there are many examples. i could quote galileo's, which was so much praised for its usefulness, but when it came to budgeting for it, it suddenly wasn't a priority. the transport infrastructure and rail links are being promoted in the name of competitiveness, but they are being sacrificed on the altar of the budget. what about the stated ambitions in research when we see the real support for innovation? i am not thinking only of financial aid, but also of the application of legislation which encourages investment in europe and opens up the export market for our smes outside the european territories. i therefore expect a lot from the council's commitment to the european institute of technology, to which i know our president of the commission, mr barroso, is very attached, as is our parliament. we are no longer waiting for the council to make strong commitments, but to deliver. competitiveness is also the result of the regulations we adopt, which must be opportunities and not constraints. i expect the european commission to use these principles as a basis for presenting its legislative programme for 2007 and the council to follow suit. i expect parliament to dare to say no to proposals which are merely big ideas without any concrete achievements. policies also have a duty to be competitive and therefore effective. competitiveness is also the search for a balance of trade on a global scale. the anti-dumping measures certainly go in that direction, but could we not have other strong political decisions, including requiring equivalent quality standards for all products imported into the european union? finally, on the energy question, i hope that the discussions with president putin will enable europe to put in place all the structures necessary to guarantee its energy independence. it must also be able to develop renewable energy sources to ensure its energy independence alongside nuclear energy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. anna politkovskaya was twice invited to the european parliament by our group. she has informed us about the situation in chechnya and the situation of freedom of expression in russia. i think we should finally call it quits. someone said that those responsible should be prosecuted. you will be dining with one of the people responsible, mr. putin himself! let's stop lying to ourselves. in russia today, there is a system where freedom of expression is being curtailed day by day. newspapers are bought, newspapers are gone. the owners are in jail. it happens every day. (applause from the centre) yes, martin, we need russia. but we have to know that this russia that we're facing is a russia that's not afraid to make people disappear. and i can tell you the story, it's even in a book that's coming out soon. read "the day of the oprichnik" by vladimir sorokin. he described from the perspective of a security officer how things are going in russia today. and we will read it: any petty criminal, any drug dealer is going to get caught. he'll be sentenced to life, disappear in a prison beyond the urals, and then they'll say, "look, we've got one". but who hired him, who gave him the money - as with the other forty journalists and the newspapers - no one will ask, no one will care. because, as we saw on german television last night, at the meeting between mrs merkel and mr putin, we need vladimir putin. yeah, why do we need vladimir putin? because we - yes, this is germany, you have your grand coalition, i can speak of the red-green coalition, which has concluded an impossible treaty with russia and has not pursued any europeanisation of energy policy - have established a link with russia! in all this, we should mention horse and rider. then maybe we could move on. of course there will be negotiations with russia, but i firmly believe that it is time to show the attitude we need. of course we can laugh when schalke 04 is bought by gasprom. of course we can laugh if chelsea is bought by abramovich. of course we can find all this funny. we think it's great that mr putin is with us everywhere and now he's also at the bundesliga every saturday! only the price we pay, the price the people in russia have paid, the price the people in chechnya have paid, is that we simply witness one of the most dangerous systems of oppression here, laugh at it and otherwise look the other way. i just think it's a little lame. we look the other way. we say, "we are horrified". then we go back to the day-to-day and say, "putin, what's your problem?" how could you do this? good, you'll pay faster now! i got it! that is our attitude! in conclusion, i can only say that the energy problems, the immigration problems, all these problems will only be solved if we - and graham watson is right - at some point honestly identify the problems that limit our attitude. i think we need to negotiate with putin. you don't have to have a nice dinner with him.
madam president, anna politkovskaya knows why she died. the afterword of his latest book is entitled "am i afraid?". why was she writing? she wrote because she believed that words could save lives. she knew she was threatened, she had been kidnapped, she had been the victim of an attempted poisoning, she was regularly threatened with death. she was executed for telling the truth, plain and simple. in her book "chechnya, the russian disgrace", she writes: "putin and his people have given their blessing to what no country can approve of: corruption based on the blood of thousands of victims, an army devoured by military anarchy, a chauvinistic spirit within the government apparatus masquerading as patriotism, unbridled rhetoric of the strong state, official, popular anti-chechen racism with metastases spreading to other peoples of russia. today, putin's russia produces new pogromers every day, and attacks on caucasians have become routine". do you know when she wrote that text? she wrote it in 2003, and what do we see today? we see the roundups, the arbitrary arrests, we see the persecutions against the georgians and against the human rights ngos, who have just lodged a complaint. what does mr. putin say? mr. putin says that the measures taken against the georgians are appropriate and that the state agents are acting in accordance with russian law. she has been a constant critic of human rights violations. i hope that the twenty-five will have the courage to tell mr. putin what this woman alone had the courage to say and that they will not pay for words about the investigation... the president shall withdraw the floor.
madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, the recent summits in tampere and luxembourg have once again shown the limits of european immigration policy and the limits of solidarity between european governments. we therefore hope that you will be able to tackle the root causes of immigration in lahti. if we want fewer arrivals at our southern borders, the answer is not and will never be to increase patrols and speed up return flights. i've met these immigration candidates, the whole hope of their families, their village rests on them, and they would, for some, rather die than fail. fighting illegal immigration is therefore not condemning these victims by sending them back to a destiny they are trying to escape; the fight against illegal immigration means fighting against those who organise trafficking, who deceive people into believing that they have a better future in europe, and against those who exploit them in europe. should we not also relax the european visa policy? that's how we'll fight the underground. while it is true that we need labour, we want people with rights, we do not want slaves. it must be admitted that regularization may be necessary to combat operators. human trafficking can only be effectively combated if we do not encourage the use of black labour and the exploitation of migrants in our own countries. we must also admit that we have paid for africa for a long time, we must admit that our policies of co-development have not been fair, we must finally allow the massive development of poor countries. until now, europe has been content with declarations of good intentions. we must invest heavily in these countries and also help to create public services that are accessible to all and establish companies that will pay their employees fairly, which is not always the case at the moment, it must be said. workers are often exploited by european companies in their own countries and this, i repeat, should not be afraid to say. finally, our member states must realise that we must work together and that we cannot do anything serious on our own. let's get past our national egos that are driving us right into the wall.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to say that my group felt that it was urgent to reach a new agreement with the united states. it was not possible to leave the airlines in the legal limbo they had been in since 30 september and with severe penalties if they did not provide the required data. we had to find common agreement among all the member states of the union in order to guarantee an equivalent level of protection for everyone. we are, however, very concerned about the facilitation of the transfer of this data. the subsequent transfer of data to other agencies responsible for the fight against terrorism is problematic if we do not provide appropriate safeguards. we demand the right of european citizens to an effective remedy before a judge in the event of misuse of this data. we expect the us authorities to apply the safeguards we are asking for and which are included in the declarations of commitment. we believe that it is necessary to involve the national parliaments as well. article 24 of the treaty provides that the european union is the contracting party. this does not, however, prevent member states from having recourse to a parliamentary ratification procedure. thus, when signing the judicial cooperation agreements with the united states, all but two member states made a declaration that they would not be bound by these agreements until they had been ratified by their parliaments. can you confirm that the same is true of the agreement on pnr data and, if so, what is the pace of ratification? that is a very specific question to which we would like to have an answer. finally, the negotiations for the new agreement of 2007 must focus on defining a comprehensive and binding framework guaranteeing the protection of the security and fundamental rights of citizens. we are not afraid to say it again: the european parliament and the national parliaments must be involved. it is also necessary to undertake a comprehensive reflection on the protection of data relating to european citizens in the context of transatlantic relations. the recent hearing on swift has shown us the possible conflicts between european and american law, and we must resolve these conflicts: it is our responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a strange conception, as enrique barón crespo said, of democratic debate and respect for our institution with a commissioner in charge of trade and a finnish presidency who are not here to answer our legitimate questions. if the commissioner had been away, i would have had two questions for him. why anti-dumping duties reduced from five to two years, which is a first in the history of this instrument, and why such low duties when there is a clear violation of international trade rules and serious damage to companies? if the finnish presidency had honoured us with its presence, i would not have congratulated it for its partial coordination and its unwavering support for the positions of the major importers and distributors, to the detriment of our industry which is experiencing a number of dramatic bankruptcies with the resulting job losses. but once again financial considerations have prevailed over social considerations and over the indispensable solidarity between the countries of the union, a solidarity which, if tested, may tomorrow be the exception rather than the rule that unites us. in short, the position adopted is more unemployment in europe, a missed opportunity to promote social standards and decent work, a profit reserved for importers and distributors only: i cannot accept that.
i welcome the fact that the 25 member states of the european union have finally adopted definitive anti-dumping measures on imports of chinese and vietnamese footwear. european producers suffered heavy losses on their export markets and were subject to unfair competition. it was therefore right to apply the trade defence instruments available to the european union, instruments, i would remind you, approved by the wto. i also wonder about commissioner madelson's willingness to fight protectionism and about the assimilation of this with trade defence instruments in the context of the forthcoming reform - the global europe communication. i am not in favour of protected markets, protected from competition, disconnected from any evolution of globalisation. i am, however, in favour of the application of legal rules when competition is unfair in the market. the commission has also taken the view that the community's trade policy should be based on the principle of subsidiarity. the function of these instruments is to protect european producers against unfair competition by enforcing the rules laid down in the wto. i therefore ask commissioner mandelson what the real purpose of this reform will be: to adapt these instruments or to weaken them?
mr president, one event follows another. nevertheless, we are witnessing firsthand the escalation of russia's violations of international law against georgia: the granting of russian citizenship to the south ossetian and abkhaz populations, the rejection of the peace plan proposed by georgia to settle the conflicts with the separatist regions, the closure of the two border crossing points. tensions have risen further following the arrest of russian spies by georgia, with moscow retaliating by hunting down georgians and trying to economically stifle its neighbour by unilaterally blocking trade between russia and georgia. finally, by suggesting that russia would recognize the breakaway regions of south ossetia and abkhazia if kosovo gained independence, mr putin is taking us further away from resolving the conflicts. the list is long and the georgian exasperation is understandable. in view of this situation on the verge of explosion, the european union has a crucial role to play in bringing the partners, and in particular russia in the context of the union/russia negotiations, to the negotiating table to find a solution and put an end to this conflict in the south caucasus. the neighbourhood policy allows us to do that. military action would be a complete failure of our policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr varela's report rightly reminds us, and we should congratulate him, that europe and mercosur have an interest in strengthening their cooperation. in recent months, however, negotiations with mercosur have suffered a setback, with most of the controversial issues awaiting settlement at the wto. with the recent suspension of the doha round, we must now show unwavering political will to relaunch the talks. bilateral negotiations between regions presuppose a high level of economic and political integration between the two partners. mercosur seems to be weakened by the asymmetry of its members and their sometimes divergent interests. its institutions must therefore be strengthened, in particular by the establishment of a regional parliament and a binding instrument for settling disputes. in addition, consideration should be given to the accession of venezuela, which will undoubtedly give the area a more political character and change the balance of economic forces. because it is in the union's interest to negotiate with a strong partner, it must support politically and financially the emergence of mercosur as an integrated regional bloc. this is a space which is meant to strengthen, alongside us, the multilateral structure and the economic and social model which we are calling for.
mr president, first of all, as an introduction to my remarks, i would like to know whether mr pirker was speaking on behalf of his group or on his own behalf. after hearing mr. kirkhope, i don't know. the first speaker, mr pirker, was supposed to give his group's opinion and after listening to him i would still like to know whether the epp supports its own rapporteur, mrs gál, or whether it does not support him. we're not sure where we stand today. in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, it seemed to me that we were in agreement, or at least our votes proved it. i admit that we are a little confused by the epp's position today, which does not correspond at all, but then it does not correspond at all, to the debate we had in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. so what's the point of committee debates? as for us, in our group, we are constant. mrs gál, mrs kósáné kovács, i would like to thank you for your excellent proposals and for your work in finding a compromise acceptable to all. we welcome the commission's proposal to extend the mandate of the observatory on racism and xenophobia to become a european agency for fundamental rights because the european union must lead by example and ensure better protection of the fundamental rights of its citizens. the first responsibility of this agency - and i regret that some of the speakers who spoke before me have left - must be to protect rights in the member states as a matter of priority. this does not prevent us from looking elsewhere, but first and foremost to the member states: let us sweep in front of our doors! in recent years we have seen the rise of extremism in europe, the escalation of hate speech: we must be vigilant about the rights of everyone, even within our own parliament. we must be vigilant about racist attacks, about xenophobic attacks. social peace is at risk if we are not able to instill respect and acceptance of our differences. the agency will be responsible for ensuring the effective transposition of european legislation into the legislation of the member states and the proper application of that legislation. it will ensure that all national legislation is in line with our european principles. we have very comprehensive legislation on the fight against discrimination and it is clear that it is poorly implemented in the member states. the agency will be able to raise problems, advise on the best ways of implementing this legislation. the agency will be competent in all areas covered by the charter of fundamental rights, even though it is true that this is not yet open to challenge. it is not unnecessary to remind you that our parliament was the initiator of this charter, and it must be placed at the centre of the european construction. if this agency were not to have competence in the field of the third pillar, it would have little added value compared to the existing observatory: we agree on this point. the police and judicial activities are central to the protection of fundamental rights. the agency must therefore be able to have a competence in this area, and i believe that this is a priority shared by the whole of this parliament. it is worth recalling that this commission proposal is the result of repeated requests by the council for the creation of such an agency. in december 2003, the european council suggested that the mandate of the vienna observatory be extended, and this wish was perpetuated in the hague programme. so you should know what you want. we therefore support the reports as a whole and call on the council to hear the position of the large majority of parliament on this matter, as expressed in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, mr borut pahor, on the amendment of rules 3 and 4 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, which deal with the verification of credentials and the duration of the mandate in its incompatibility aspects. it is normal for the administrations of the member states to be involved in the verification of credentials. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's powers are not undermined, in particular in the case of incompatibilities which could affect a new member of the european parliament.
in writing. although some members of the contact group are doing their utmost to reach an agreement by the deadline of the end of this year, the status of kosovo is still uncertain. i am well aware that the partition of kosovo is not part of the negotiations and that the international community is making fun of the constitution that serbia has just adopted, granting a large degree of autonomy to the province of kosovo, which is rightly regarded by the serbs as the birthplace of their country. i am well aware that these negotiations are a decoy and that they are aimed at imposing the secession of kosovo. but the report before us today seems to consider that kosovo's independence has already been achieved, since the aid it proposes to grant is nothing more or less than a classic gift to a third country. the few amendments relating to respect for human rights are mere gestures, the persecution of serbian minorities, under the indifferent eye of multinational forces, being a reality which should justify the utmost caution. we do not feel obliged to endorse this situation.
in writing. if there is one area in which brussels is prolific, it is in the creation of agencies: defence, the fight against drugs, maritime, road and air safety, energy, reconstruction... today is the day of the eu's fundamental rights. another machine of europe or an indispensable organ for the proper functioning of democracies in the union? the report states that 'fundamental rights should be at the heart of all eu policies and initiatives so that europe can truly be the symbol of fundamental rights'. that's great. that's great. but it seems that the reality is quite different. today, in the kingdom of belgium, a veritable banana oligarchy, an opposition leader is sentenced to ten years of ineligibility for a simple opinion offence. in france, too, jean-marie le pen is being condemned for expressing a moderate view, widely shared by the french, on the consequences of mass muslim immigration. in britain this month, mr nick griffin is being prosecuted, again for a crime of opinion, after an undignified provocation by a bbc journalist. it is clear that today, freedom of expression and thought are increasingly threatened and violated, giving way to self-censorship and intellectual terrorism.
in writing. i believe it is important to create an independent and accountable fundamental rights agency. a balance must be struck between these two requirements, keeping in mind that the main thing is to design a functional and efficient organ. to achieve this objective, active and close cooperation between the three european institutions is essential. the first thing to do is to find a political consensus. the council has indicated that it does not want the competence of the european agency for fundamental rights to be extended to the third pillar, i.e. intergovernmental cooperation in the fields of police, justice, immigration and counter-terrorism. the netherlands even announced that it would use its veto to prevent the agency from starting its activities on 1 january 2007 because of the duplication of work with the council of europe. that is why, while i voted unanimously in favour of all the amendments to mrs kinga gál's report, i voted in favour of postponing the final vote so that the council can reconsider its position.
in writing. according to the report: "the fundamental rights agency should be an adequate body to provide regular review of the application of human rights". the future agency will therefore have to study the increasing number of violations of freedom of expression in europe. unfortunately, there are many examples: the cartoons of muhammad published in a danish newspaper, which have led to the death of priests in turkey, violent demonstrations and the burning of churches, the speech of pope benedict xvi which was considered "hateful and hostile" by a turkish muslim leader, and, more recently, the french philosopher redeker who was threatened with death and forced to change his address every day for a text on the koran whose content is prejudicial and offensive to the prophet, islam and muslims. self-censorship, threats and attacks are increasing at the expense of freedom of expression and thought, to the point that today they are probably the most threatened freedoms in europe. so if the first task of this future agency is to defend these freedoms and to denounce the violations, we are in favour of it. if not, it will be yet another useless and costly theodule committee.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my excellent colleague, mr jan christian ehler, on the follow-up to the report on competition in the professions. however, i abstained on certain provisions relating to advertising, as there was no precise information on the impact of the communication on the professional and ethical quality of the services provided and on the price of the services. i share the view that it is essential to integrate the professions into our european internal market, but we must take account of their specificities in connection with the special and indispensable protection of the european consumer in a highly internationalised market for services. beyond these considerations, it seems to me absolutely essential to ensure that the liberal professions are given greater recognition within the european political institutions and have their full place in the logic of the social market economy in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague and friend daniel varela suanzes-carpegna on economic and trade relations between the european union and mercosur. i am grateful to him, in particular, for his willingness to accept amendments concerning the place of small and mediumsized enterprises in the cooperation part of the association agreement with mercosur and the financing to be attached to it, as well as the role of the organisations representing smes. at a time when negotiations at the world trade organisation are failing and the european union is going to negotiate bilateral agreements, this report sets out the way forward for trade cooperation with this very important part of the american continent. if the association agreement could be finalised, the free trade area thus created would be the largest between regions in the world and would open up major opportunities for trade and, therefore, for economic growth on both sides, while improving the international competitiveness of both markets.
in writing. although the european union is defending itself against this, it is intensifying bilateral trade negotiations to compensate for the foreseeable failure of the doha round of negotiations. and these negotiations have the same defects as those of the wto: the concessions of the european union to its partners are much greater than the concessions of the partners to the eu; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. some of the mercosur member states already benefit from the european union's generalised system of preferences, i.e. duty-free and quota-free access to the european market. the question is, what are the mutual interests of the future trading partners, since the costs of a 'no-deal' represent a small part of the volume of trade between the two parties. the main objective of this agreement seems to be the vanity of having created the world's first interregional free trade area, soon to be extended to the entire american continent. this is yet another example of brussels' tendency to put ideological objectives ahead of all other considerations, especially economic and social ones.
mr president, for some time now the influx of migrants has been portrayed as an intolerable threat. this rhetoric is being adopted by the far right, which is maintaining the amalgamation of crime and immigration and thriving on this soil. but these migrants are first and foremost victims: victims of mafia networks that enrich themselves by bringing in men and women in search of a future; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new drug, the introduction of a new drug policy, and the introduction of a new drug policy. in the face of this, let us use all the existing community instruments to combat these channels. we must review the regulation requiring the examination of an asylum application to be carried out in the first member state the applicant reaches, because this places an intolerable burden on the countries of southern and eastern europe. the overcrowded and inhuman transit camps are no longer tolerable. finally, let us be objective and courageous in saying that europe will need legal migration to fill its demographic gap. so let's break out of the political beaten track, the ideological shortcuts and let's say clearly that immigration can also be a chance for europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, eads and the industrial projects it carries out, including airbus, make it one of europe's great jewels, an industrial jewel, a symbol of our technology and our capacity for the future. but the company is in serious trouble. i shall not dwell on the reasons, particularly those connected with its management, which may have justified or explained some of its present difficulties, which require effective remedies. on the other hand, i will insist on the statements of airbus' management, which explains to us that, in order to be competitive, the company will probably have to relocate or install a number of its activities in the so-called 'dollar' currency area, for the sole reason that the euro/dollar exchange rate is unfavourable to one of the most important high-tech sectors for the european union. when asked about this, mr trichet had only one answer: 'i don't have to explain myself about the exchange rate!' do you not think, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, that there is an urgent need to change europe's monetary policy? (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, airbus' strategic and industrial choices not only affect the fate of tens of thousands of jobs but also the future of a significant part of the european aviation industry. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been operating in a market economy. under no circumstances should airbus employees pay for the mistakes and failures of the directors and shareholders. they represent, through their know-how, the real wealth of airbus. airbus is sick of liberalism and the cure for it is to return to public ownership and funding of eads at european level. i am pleased to note that many voices are being raised in germany and spain to give employees real powers of intervention in the management of airbus. i hope that mr mandelson will do his job so that the americans will no longer challenge the system of repayable advances and that the european central bank and the commission will finally intervene to counter the weak dollar.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would first of all like to thank, of course, mr coelho and the fictitious rapporteurs of the groups for their intensive work. the establishment of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii) should help to remove internal borders with the ten new member states. the enlargement of the schengen area is a priority for our parliament. we understand the difficulties our colleagues in the eastern european countries have in explaining to their fellow citizens why they cannot move freely in europe. that is why we wanted to reach an agreement at first reading so as not to delay the free movement of all european citizens. the schengen information system must provide a high level of security to remove the borders, but any centralised data bank must respect the principles of proportionality and purpose in order to guarantee the protection of everyone's privacy. we therefore welcome the fact that this text makes a direct and specific reference to the future framework decision on data protection under the third pillar, and i thank mr coelho in particular for this. i hope that the council will be able to send us its first reading of this text very quickly, as it undertook to do at our last plenary session. the sis is a control tool implemented at the external borders which has replaced the old fixed posts which were abolished in the context of the free movement of persons. we wanted to define strictly which authorities have direct access to the data. the list of authorities with access will be published in the official journal, which will help to prevent any misuse of data by identifying who, when and why the system data was exploited. in addition, we give priority to allowing people access to information about them, by offering them the possibility to appeal and to correct it. we have worked together in a spirit of compromise to find a common text as quickly as possible. i understand the concerns of the new member states following the commission's announcement of the delay in the introduction of the system. however, these are technical problems of the system which are not attributable to the european parliament. finally, i would like to call on the member states not to impose a last-minute request that jeopardizes the compromise agreed by all the institutions and not to delay again the adoption of this text, which is necessary for the free movement of persons.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to warmly thank mrs kratsa for her commitment and her spirit of cooperation. this own-initiative report is, in my view, one of the most important we have had to vote on since the beginning of this parliament on women's rights. the situation of migrant women has been too long a neglected issue for our governments, even though their numbers are increasing and they now constitute the majority of people arriving in the union. they are the first to establish social and integration links between their families and their nationals. the report does, however, offer a number of guidelines to put an end to the double discrimination, ethnic and sexual, to which these women are often subjected. i am particularly pleased that a number of provisions concerning women in irregular situations have been incorporated into this report, since they are a subcategory deprived of rights and therefore all the more vulnerable. it is therefore essential that these women, regardless of the member state in which they reside, should be able to enjoy basic rights such as access to emergency medical care, legal assistance and the possibility of sending their children to school, as is the case in my country. finally, i am pleased that this text contains another point which i particularly attach to, namely the status of women who have arrived in the territory of the union as part of a family reunion. these women often have a legal existence only through their husbands and are therefore placed in a situation of absolute dependence. the report calls for the granting of an independent and autonomous status to them as soon as possible and, above all, for this status to be automatically maintained in the event of a breakdown in the relationship between the spouses. i hope therefore that this report will receive a very large majority in this parliament and that the ambitious proposals it contains will not be left unanswered.
it is clear that the recovery of community funds following irregularities or fraud remains insufficient. the financial regulation must be applied more strictly and its revision must be carried out. the parliament therefore considers that simplification of recovery procedures and better coordination between the commission services and those responsible at national level are essential areas of work. the main problem is that no single national authority has overall responsibility for the quality and supervision of national controls, while 80% of the implementation of the community budget is the responsibility of the member states, as a result of shared management. the complexity of the mechanisms thus leads the media to blame the commission for the problems associated with illegal operations, and thus for the recovery of the money, whereas these problems are primarily at the level of the member states. strengthening cooperation between olaf, eurojust and europol, a wider application of the judicial recovery procedure and parliament's request that the commission provide a regulatory framework for the accounting treatment of irregularities and that it regularly report, by dg, on the state of recovery are all important measures that will increase the transparency and efficiency of the procedures.
mr president, in this debate on the adaptation of the prospectus and transparency directives to what is commonly known as the road map negotiated by commissioner mccreevy with the us authorities, we are in a position to take stock of how ifrs have been implemented. we must be very careful about this. one of the great contributions of this parliament, i believe, has been to ensure that, when negotiating equivalence, there is real equivalence and not just a lapse of time which finally shows that where there were differences, equivalence has been achieved. the commissioner knows very well that everything in this matter is a matter of negotiation. you have obtained a commitment from the americans to reconciliation at the end of the period and, when that period expires, you will be left empty-handed if in the meantime this parliament has not helped to consolidate the file so that we finally achieve acceptable recognition. i very much regret that we were not able, before this plenary session, to organise with our colleagues in the us congress the videoconference that i had proposed, which my colleagues in the coordinating committee had accepted, and which would have allowed us to have the necessary debate with the us political authorities on their ability to respect this road map that you, commissioner, have made your own.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank the members of the committee on the environment, and especially my fictitious colleagues for the work we have done together, because i think it is fair to say that, even though the chamber is not very full, as is usual at this hour, we have really done a lot of work together and that this report bearing my name could just as well be named after my colleagues mrs gutierrez, mrs ries or mrs lienemann, who has apologised for not being able to be here this evening. we have also worked together with the commission. unfortunately, we can regret that the council is not here, because in the end our results will depend very much on the council. i am quite confident that the cooperation we have been able to establish during this first reading, following the common position, will enable us to reach a consensus with the council and with you, and i am counting on you, commissioner, to convey this discussion to the council. indeed, ladies and gentlemen, life+ is no longer the programme we used to know, but will indeed be the 'environment' budget line of the union. life+ will therefore be the basis for innovative european policies, will address challenges such as the fight against climate change, air and soil pollution, will halt the degradation of biodiversity, and will enable dg environment and ngos, our quintessential bio-indicators, to add european added value to the environmental policies of the member states. in fact, as you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, this is a 'budget line of the impossible' given the paltry amount that the council and the commission have allocated to it. we tried, at first reading, to increase this life line, which is less than 1% of the overall budget, it should be recalled, to bring it up to the level of the policies displayed by the union itself. the debate then focused on support for the natura 2000 network, the cornerstone of our environmental policies. by adding the 21 billion, estimated by the commission itself, needed for the proper management of natura 2000, the european parliament had sent a strong signal to the commission and the council. and we were right. today, with the reduction of the structural funds budgets, unbridled competition has been introduced in the regions and we have feedback from all our colleagues. as natura 2000 is not specifically mentioned in the financial regulations, the results will probably come from voluntary environmental action, but without leaving too many illusions as to the share that will be reserved for the protection of nature and biodiversity, despite the almost unanimous position reached at the first reading by the european parliament in support of an ambitious european policy. the common position that was proposed to us has masterfully ignored our warning. worse, it is shockingly far from it, going so far as to grant 80% of the management to the member states, even though in your original proposal you did not mention this percentage. what minister would refuse such a gift? it is also understandable that the commission, with its too small staff, is afraid of managing multiple projects. this would be all the more difficult given that, with the announced reduction in the number of european civil servants, there is little hope that the environment dg will increase its staff. we say very clearly that this is not the right approach, because the european level remains the most relevant and the safest for dealing with environmental issues. we even think that this transfer of power from the commission to the member states is dangerous. in our view, this strategy of renationalizing environmental policies would be a sign of the slow disintegration of the european idea. each member state that wants to take the initiative would then be free to play the lisbon strategy and thus become an outstanding competitor - and we know very well that competition is generally synonymous with environmental degradation - or to claim sustainable development, which requires a global approach, which is the opposite of competition. we also know how much the environmental label is used to justify many of the destructive environmental problems. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is the trap we refuse to fall into because it would be the negation of all european environmental successes. if there is a visible policy, identified, recognised and appreciated by the european citizens, it is the one we have succeeded in putting in place for the protection of the environment. we all know that life must be able to cope with emergencies and implement policies for the restoration of our environment. the 100 million drawn from the financial perspective and for which we demand, commissioner, that it be returned in full to the environment will not be enough. commissioner, unless you are a magician, the commitments will be impossible to keep with such paltry sums. so to leave the burden on the member states is to risk failure. our ambition is that the union remains the beacon, the world leader, which takes the initiative in laws for the protection of the planet. this requires that the commission be able to carry ambitious projects, that it retain responsibility and quality control of projects launched at member state level and that it reject those which are not suitable. european policy must not in any way compensate for the failure of the member states in the field of the environment and we refuse to give them a blank cheque, as you will have understood. on the other hand, we are fully aware that the delay this procedure might cause could in turn cause delays in funding. that is why we tabled the same amendment together to ensure the continuity of funding for the work of your environment dg, pending an agreement of course. above all, we also want the work to continue and even to enable you to launch new projects and to ensure that the work of the ngos is financed. we are making it clear that this is legally and financially possible. in conclusion, mr president, i would say that the ball is now in the court of the council and the commission and that we are convinced that we will reach an agreement between each other to ensure the continuation of this ambitious environmental policy. that is what our fellow citizens expect and encourage us to do.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to ask you to accept the apology of mrs lienemann, who cannot be here tonight, to her great regret, because you know her commitment to this matter. however, i am glad to replace her with the same convictions. i would like to remind you of the full support that our group gives to mrs isler-béguin's report and welcome the agreement reached by our political groups on an ambitious strategy to consolidate the only direct financial instrument for european environmental policies. it should also be noted that it was our parliament which obtained additional budgetary appropriations for life, although far below our initial objectives. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the effort has been made, which is perhaps insufficient, but it has been achieved in a context of budgetary constraints to which we must submit. our disagreements at the present stage of the case concern the method chosen for financing the actions. life is an exemplary european instrument, it has proved its worth and we cannot support the renationalisation of this policy, as envisaged, with a delegation of management to the member states amounting to 80% of the budget. the european union must not be content to be a cash drawer, it must be the driving force behind this environmental policy! at a time when the european idea needs to be strengthened, and this is a policy widely approved by eu citizens, this retreat in the european dynamic is not acceptable. it is about our credibility with the citizens after the statements in the future sustainable development strategy. life must also maintain its status as an example, based on the selection of innovative and reproducible projects. it is clear that member states must be guaranteed the level of funding they expect, while at the same time requiring that the selection of projects be in line with this dual logic, the european dimension and meaningful environmental practice. our group supports the amendment by mrs haug which calls on the commission to guarantee continuity of funding for the programmes under way. we cannot accept that ngos and other actors involved in life should be penalised.
commissioner, at first reading our message was that the amounts allocated to life+ were too low. today the european parliament must send a clear message to the council and the commission. we cannot in any case accept the delegation of 80% of the life+ appropriations to the member states for management by national agencies. why is that unacceptable? because environmental policy is one of the most widely understood and read european policies by european citizens. it is really a question of why the commission wants to give up this opportunity of showing citizens the direct effect of a community policy on their daily lives. this is not sensible, especially at a time when criticism is being levelled at the lack of communication with the citizen. life+ is an indispensable financial instrument for all our environmental policies. but what inconsistency! we vote from session to session for strong environmental commitments in the framework of sustainable development while life+ is reduced to a shell of grief. and again, we disagree with the council. to leave 80% of the funding to the member states is to risk the failure of all our commitments and the diversion of this funding from its original purpose. yes, commissioner, we are all in favour of life+, but not in the way you propose! a centralised model managed by the commission must be maintained, with project selection based on excellence and added value. otherwise we will be faced with a setback in our environmental policy, and you know that. renationalisation is not the right solution. we must not use these resources to pay civil servants but to launch and finance projects.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not there are several red threads in history. we're going to pick up on one of those red threads today. it began in germany on june 17, 1953, then moved through poland and hungary in 1956, and czechoslovakia in 1968, until communism was finally defeated. the hungarian uprising was a revolt for democracy, it was a national but also a political revolt. i am reminded of the petöfi circle, the hungarian intellectuals who, at that time in budapest and then throughout hungary, founded the workers' councils together with the workers. there was hope of trying to reinvent democracy. that was in hungary in 1956! the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. because she was one of the intellectuals who had the strength to name two totalitarianisms in one breath, the communist and the fascist. this is exactly what history teaches us: we never rented democracy for life. we will only get it if we fight for democracy every day. this is what poland today shows us, this is what hungary today shows us, and this is also what the dangerous developments in france show us, where there are fascist, right-wing forces. we must always stand up for democracy and fight for it! the people of hungary and poland 50 years ago and czechoslovakia in 1968, and those of us who fought against fascism, have shown us that sometimes you have to sacrifice your life for democracy and freedom. we should take this lesson to heart and not be afraid to say that totalitarianisms - whether fascist or communist - are and remain totalitarianisms! (applause from the centre)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think i am expressing a view widely shared in my group when i say that i agree that the 1956 uprising in hungary was first and foremost a popular uprising for freedom and independence. we also agree to condemn in the strongest terms the bloody suppression of this uprising by the soviet army. finally, i agree that this hungarian tragedy is an emblematic event because it sheds light on the existential crisis of a model which, for lack of having been able to reform itself in depth, will disappear thirty-three years later. what we cannot accept, however, is a one-sided reading of contemporary history and, therefore, a demonization of the communist idea. i would like to remind you that in the case of hungary, communists, not the least, played a major role in the movement against the regime. we know the position of nagy imre, the reformist communist prime minister who paid with his life for his involvement with the insurgents. it is less well known that the famous petofi circle, whose activity is considered to be one of the factors that triggered the movement, was created on the initiative of young communists. and i could also mention the name of the great communist philosopher györgy lukacs, who was also involved in this reformist struggle. in fact, for a long time there was a rising tide of communist-inspired protest, whose critics were unfortunately stifled. history was not written in advance, nor is it written today. let us condemn the crimes of stalinism as much as necessary, but let us not rekindle the spirit of the cold war which has never, anywhere, been fruitful for freedom and independence. the european union must be able to take a more decisive stance towards the future. (applause from the left)
madam president, in france, breast cancer is first diagnosed by mammography, and then confirmed by anatomical pathology. we'd need to check for extension to the liver, brain and bone, which are the three targets of metastasis. at best, in france, we'll only do a bone scan, but no mri and especially no pepscan, a device for early metabolic diagnosis. in treatment, if there is radiation therapy, it is a humble manipulator who will do the deeds. the result is sometimes peripheral radiation accidents to the heart or thyroid. finally, if after treatment, when checking the patient with back pain, a scan is obtained that shows a suspicious bone spot, pepscan screening is still not done. why would you do that? because in france, for every 35 million women, there are only two pepscans. why would you do that? because the budget covenant prohibits spending on hospital equipment. the result is that women in europe are dying not only of breast cancer but also of the ideological cancer of the european commission, which is called fiscal malthusianism and wild free trade.
madam president, commissioner, breast cancer kills too many women in the european union, and often far too young women. these deaths are unacceptable when we know that early detection can cure this cancer. we know the psychological and physical trauma that women experience when they discover their disease: they have to reorganize their family and professional lives and simply cope. there is no harmonisation in europe on how to deal with the scourge of breast cancer. only ten member states are carrying out screening, with varying degrees of success. european women are therefore faced with a situation of blatant inequality, because they live in a particular country or city. commissioner, our objective is to eradicate this disease, knowing that in addition to the trauma experienced by the patient, this disease has a cost to our society. the solution to this scourge is early and compulsory screening, organised by the governments of the member states. to be effective, this testing must be free of charge and, above all, well-managed, which means that state-of-the-art equipment must be available throughout the european union. digital mammography, which in the past could hide microcalcifications - the most common lesions of breast cancer - has made considerable progress. so, commissioner, when will we have digital mammograms throughout the european union? effective screening also requires that all devices are calibrated and therefore quality checked, knowing that nothing is more serious than the false security given to women by an x-ray examination that may be of poor quality. to make this test effective, equipment alone is not enough. doctors who are called upon to make these diagnoses must undergo continuing training. they must undergo continuous retraining and compulsory tests to assess their knowledge. finally, women need information on breast cancer prevention, advice on lifestyle and food hygiene and no fear of screening. research should help us to make progress on the causes of breast cancer. i am convinced that by pooling our efforts we can once again explain what the european union is doing to improve the health of european women. this is a subject on which there should be unanimity in the european union: zero deaths from breast cancer in europe!
madam president, commissioners, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues for their work and for the clarity of their statements. the problem we are looking at today is a serious one. the alarming statistics on the spread of breast cancer in europe and the number of deaths from the disease are sufficient to prove this. this problem is all the more serious given the very wide disparities between countries in both cancer prevention and cancer treatment, which have become even more pronounced since the last enlargement. while the treaties provide that the european union, together with the member states, is to work to protect and promote the health of european citizens, the word 'jointly' will nevertheless have to be given a stronger meaning. the eu guidelines and recommendations have not been sufficiently taken into account. we must now act against this situation and not tolerate it any longer. the european union must ensure that its citizens have equal access to detection, management and the best available treatment. to this end we have the legislative and budgetary instruments, as well as the structural funds and research programmes. let us use all the resources we have to look at all the causes of this disease, whether environmental, social or genetic, and to look for innovative treatments. the commission must make proposals to this effect and i sincerely believe that the european union should make the fight against breast cancer and, more generally, the fight against cancer in general, a priority policy, knowing that together we will always be stronger. this is the added value that our citizens expect from the european union. studies and diagnoses, evaluations and resolutions are necessary but action is crucial. the commission and the council must therefore hear our warning and waste no more time.
the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading by the committee on culture and education on the council's common position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision on the implementation of a programme to support the european audiovisual sector (media 2007) (06233/2/2006 - c6-0271/2006 - 2004/0151 (cod)) (rapporteur: ruth hieronymi) (a6-00337/2006)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading by the committee on culture and education on the council's common position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision establishing the culture programme (2007-2013) (06235/3/2006 - c6-0269/2006 - 2004/0150 (cod)) (rapporteur: vasco graça moura) (a6-0343/2006).
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all, let me congratulate the rapporteur, mr graça moura, on the work he has done on such a fundamental subject as the culture 2007 programme and, above all, on the agreement he has reached on behalf of the european parliament. i would like to return briefly to the three points i made on behalf of the pse group in the committee on culture. firstly, as regards the cross-cutting aspect of the programme, it is clear that the agreement reached is going in the right direction. no one should oppose the strengthening of the coherence of the programme, which will make it possible to put an end to the fragmentation which has so long characterized the cultural action of the european union. however, there are intentions on one side and the means proposed on the other. i come now to my second point, the question of the budget, which has just been raised by the rapporteur and also by the commissioner. i have said it and i will say it again as long as it takes: there is no point in the european union setting ambitious objectives, such as the promotion of cultural diversity and cooperation, if the available budget is not adequate and does not exceed 15 cents per citizen per year. we had asked for a substantial increase in the budget allocated to this programme so that it could contribute to the development of a european culture and identity, which would help to overcome national egoisms and thus the crisis which the union has been going through for a year and a half now. it is clear that the financial perspective for 2007 to 2013 which stabilises community expenditure at 1% of the european union's gdp will not allow us to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves through this programme, or even the role we intend to give culture in building a stronger and more united europe. we cannot therefore afford to sanction this programme a second time by delaying its implementation. as aristide briand said, if we do not have the means of our policy, we must have the policy of our means! it is therefore necessary to act quickly to ensure that this programme is implemented quickly, so as not to penalise the cultural organisations on the ground, which live on this funding and have been waiting for several months for a decision to be taken.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate mr graça moura on the quality of his work and thank him for his always sympathetic attention to our proposals. his report is excellent, which is not surprising for this portuguese writer, a fervent defender of portuguese. as the fictitious rapporteur for the alde group, i insist that parliament should give it its full support. the objectives of this programme are to promote the transnational mobility of persons working in the cultural sector, to encourage the transnational circulation of works of art and cultural and artistic products and to foster intercultural dialogue. the question is how, with such a limited budget, we can safeguard and promote linguistic diversity, promote language learning, music and the performing arts. the question is also how this programme could help to promote and develop the external visibility of the european union by promoting its cultural diversity and the common dimension of all its cultures. i am therefore very disappointed that the commission has not understood the crucial role that culture plays in our european identity and i find it particularly serious that, on the basis of the interinstitutional agreement containing the financial framework for the years 2007 to 2013, such a meagre budget has been approved, since it will amount to only eur 354 million, compared with the eur 600 million requested by the rapporteur and the eur 408 million proposed by the commission. the percentage of the 2007 culture programme budget for the period 2007-2013 represents only 0.04% of the eu budget allocated in the financial perspective. all artists in europe will be surprised that the european institutions still consider culture as a cherry on the cake, as a luxury that comes after the necessities. if promoting the level of culture means raising the level of consciousness and reducing obscurantism, europe will not be able to set itself up as a model with this budget reduced to a mere shred of grief.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today. annex - commission statementthe commission wishes to draw the attention of the legislator to the need for the financial envelope referred to in the basic act establishing the culture programme (2007-2013) to be expressed in current prices at the latest at the time of final publication in the official journal. this is in line with normal budgetary practice and makes it possible to ensure that the decision of the legislative authority is clearly respected. the amount in current prices for the programme in question is eur 400 million.
mr president, my point of order is based on rule 6 (7) and rule 7 of the rules of procedure on immunities. since there was no debate, there will be no explanation of vote. as regards the case in which our colleague mr borghezio is being prosecuted simply for having written the word 'shame' on the sidewalk after a judgment, a word which could have been erased from the sidewalk, i will simply say, after this shameless decision: shame on the rapporteur, shame on the commission, shame on this parliament of shameless and hypocritical people who apply a case law of variable geometry in defence of immunities.
in writing. the european union is south africa's largest trading partner and largest donor for development. the south african economy accounts for 50% of the gdp of sub-saharan africa; the country is a driving force for development in africa and a political force working for peace in the war-torn regions of africa. that is why it seems to me essential that today, 12 years after the end of apartheid, the european parliament should support the establishment of a strategic partnership with south africa. the report emphasizes the fight against aids. it also mentions measures to promote economic recovery and combat social inequalities, incentives for foreign investment, and integration and support for trade. it called on south africa to use its influence to encourage a peaceful solution to the political crisis in zimbabwe. a new economic, social, health or political crisis would have a considerable impact on all of southern africa, as well as on reunion, which has many economic and cultural links with south africa. if this agreement is important for europe, it is essential for reunion, because we have everything to gain from the stability of our neighbour and partner south africa.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. prevention is a fundamental element of risk reduction, but it cannot prevent all disasters. the european union must therefore no longer improvise in the face of emergencies. "the east is not the same", said machiavelli. the european union must prove him wrong. before any action plan is drawn up, it is important to draw up an inventory of the existing material and human resources. these elements will form the basis for the coordination needed between the member states, both to deal with the disaster and to make european action on the ground more visible. it is equally essential to plan, as soon as possible, the development of sites whose situation we know to be at risk, particularly in relation to fires and floods. the protection of the individual and solidarity between states are fundamental principles of the european union. i do not understand the council's resistance to the development of these civil protection measures, let alone the creation of a community task force. yes, the primary responsibility for civil protection lies with the member states, but this is not a matter of passing it by. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. the report on migrant women is alarming. the situations it describes (lack of personal status, exploitation, mutilations, honour killings, etc.) are a terrible testimony to the failure of immigration and integration policies. it is intended to show that immigrant populations intend to perpetuate their practices and customs in the european union, some of which are in defiance of our laws and values. it is not enough to say that migrant women themselves, or those who have come from immigration, sometimes value respect for their traditions more than respect for the law, and that they are therefore far from being, as the rapporteur naively believes, a factor of integration for their children. it also forgets that the marriage of a non-european national to a person from his country of origin has become, in france and certainly in other eu countries, the first cause of immigration, before family reunification. these marriages, when they are "white", are a source of illegal immigration. when they are not, they are proof that despite his paper nationality, one of the spouses is not integrated and not close to being. if we continue along this path, we will only strengthen the communitarianism of our societies and the risks of communitarian clashes.
in writing. the report is full of delirium, all the fantasies of the left and the greens are in it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to family benefits is guaranteed to all migrant women who are in an irregular situation and whose children are in school. in point 10 it is the simplification of the procedures for granting residence permits that is desired. finally, point 17 is about making immigrant women more actively involved in the social and political life of the host countries. clearly, everything is being done to magically transform what is a nuisance, illegal immigration, into something good, moral and humanistic: legal immigration. not a word about the implementation of policies for the return of these illegal immigrants to their countries of origin, nor a word about the possibility of implementing a coherent and effective policy of aid for co-development in these countries so that the increasing bleeding from african countries in particular will stop. nothing, just the stated will from the beginning to the end of this report to welcome more and more immigrants and give them more and more rights. relations like this do not help to build europe, they kill it.
in writing. studies, statistics, reports, evaluations, the european commission, with the support of the european parliament, has been analysing the social, occupational, political, economic and family situation of migrant women in the host countries for some months now. i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on women's rights. however, what concerns me about this report is that it highlights the rights of immigrant women who have entered europe illegally. the right to vote, the right to family allowances and housing, the right to remain in the host country - a whole range of rights are listed and desired in the report, but curiously, not a word is said about a policy of return to the country of origin or a policy of aid for the co-development of all these countries, often from africa, which are the source of immigration to europe. europe is always welcoming to anyone who wants to go. in reality, europe is transforming what it considers unacceptable, either illegal immigration, into what it considers to be humanistic and moral, or legal immigration of settlement.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me thank our two rapporteurs, james elles and louis grech, whose hard work and tenacity have guided our work on this first reading of the budget. this budget, the first of the 2007-2013 programming period, is very modest: it represents only 1.04% of gdp. the european union is facing a series of challenges: energy crisis, crisis of confidence, world conflicts, increasing poverty and insecurity, while europeans are expressing ever greater expectations of the european union. this limited scope requires great modesty. this 2007 budget is therefore characterised by a quantitative and qualitative approach rather than a purely quantitative one. this budget has also forced us to adopt a hybrid strategy. not only are our legal bases for new policies not ready, but we are not ready to defend and implement all the policies that citizens want. we want to be ambitious as citizens expect, but we also have to be realistic because we don't know if we will be able to implement these policies. for the socialists, the minimum was to restore the gap for all the policies we want, and especially for the lisbon objectives and the göteborg policies, without forgetting employment, solidarity, the environment and rural development. 2007 should be the year of a renewal in communication policy, since citizens have been really forgotten until now. i also want to see a balanced approach to foreign policy, particularly as regards the union's borders, because we cannot be satisfied with a unilateral and security-oriented approach. i would like to emphasize two important points: firstly, the role of co-financing with the european bank of investments made under the union budget to relaunch the lisbon and gothenburg strategies, and secondly, the role of pilot projects and preparatory actions which have always encouraged the emergence of new ideas and which should be implemented. in fact, my greatest concern is the implementation of this budget. our rapporteur has opted for a qualitative approach to expenditure, which is tantamount to defending the traditional financing of our priorities, but which is also an appeal to the commission to fully respect the political choices made by the european parliament. and if parliament can criticise the way in which policies are handled by the other institutions, it is because the treaty, the institutional agreements and practice allow it to do so. parliament is one of the branches of the budgetary authority and we do not want to be stripped of our power by giving up any authority over the implementation of our votes. but is it right that in the name of this power we should impede these same institutions in the exercise of their prerogatives? no, i'm not going. it would be dangerous, even counterproductive, to want to intervene too much in administrative practice. and i say to the council: the commission could not do better if at the same time we agreed to freeze recruitment within this institution. however, we have little room for manoeuvre if all our priorities are adjusted to the european commission's lack of implementation, as may be feared with the latest proposed transfer. finally, mr president, i would like to say to you in conclusion that the council must remember that it cannot impose its views, because we must jointly carry the priorities of a european political project and if we cut the budget too much, we will not be able to develop any of the policies that the european citizens are so eagerly awaiting.
mr president, i shall concentrate on the budget of the european parliament. the budget of the european parliament is the report of louis grech, and i would like to thank louis very much for the quality of his work and, above all, for the atmosphere of consultation he has created. he will have to spend a year - and that is a very long time, a year - managing all the unblocking and the reserves, and i say that we will have an open, coherent and loyal interlocutor. for the second time in its history, parliament will not reach the mythical 20% threshold. it is useful to think in terms of the operational budget, but we must be very attentive and very reactive if we want to mobilise more money for the acquisition of buildings, as the grech report proposes, if necessary, given that the procedures are very long: the bureau must give its opinion, the committee on budgets must give its opinion and the council must allow us to move forward. if, for example, in the next few days i were to buy a building in london or paris, i am not sure that in a few weeks we could have the funds we had planned for the previous year. so it is very good to stay below the 20% mark, but it is good to remain very reactive in case an opportunity arises. the second very important element of the grech report is that we have put the citizen at the heart of our objectives. for the first time next year, we will begin a new process through the implementation of the parliamentary webtv project, the start of work in our visitor centre, and the meeting of the first citizen agora, which will involve citizens in our legislative work. i think we have made a great deal of effort in this direction and i would not like to conclude, mr president, without stressing - since we learned of his departure last night - that julian priestley, our secretary-general, has, during the ten years he has been in charge of the administration, done a great deal to modernise, rigorous and transparent our budgetary procedure.
mr president, madam commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate our rapporteurs, james elles and louis grech, on their hard work, and to thank and congratulate all my colleagues on the enormous work done this time by cobu in examining the 1200 amendments, in order to meet the expectations of 450 million europeans. first of all, i would like to stress once again that i too regret the low level of the contribution to the european budget agreed by the member states in the framework of the financial perspective. this contribution is clearly not enough to implement the policies which it is now up to the european union to translate into the sense desired by europeans. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. if our ambition is to be realistic or even modest, let us at least make it as legible as possible. this was the proposal of cobu, and this is what we must consider today and in the coming weeks, giving priority to the most effective policies to achieve these objectives and thus achieve the most efficient knowledge-based economy in the world. that is why i welcome the efforts which have been made, through the proposals, in particular on research, innovation and development policies, on aid to smes, on pilot projects, on the appropriations allocated to cultural policies which, in accordance with the recommendations of our colleague, marielle de sarnez, constitute for europeans an essential pillar of our common project. finally, in keeping with the humanistic and realistic vision of our european construction, i welcome the significant increase in appropriations for policies in favour of the poorest in europe. in conclusion, i am pleased that a balance has been struck in foreign policy which takes account of the peace process in palestine, although the reservations expressed will, in my view, enable us to send a strong signal to the council in the coming weeks, since we are at the stage of first reading.
mr president, the european budget is like the theatre of bertolt brecht. while we wait for godot, while we wait for 2014 and for the own resources, we manage the modesty of the credits: 116 billion euros of payment credits, or not even 1% of the gross national income, and we gamble. for example, the nomenclature is being changed from eight to six headings. it is a joke that the europe of the 17 million unemployed is called 'growth and employment' in heading 1. the cap budget, which destroys livestock, fruit and vegetables and uproots 400 000 hectares, is under heading 2: 'confirmation of resources'. except for these changes in form, everything is standard in this budget. firstly, there is a financial framework for the years 2007 to 2013, contained in an interinstitutional agreement, the fourth, of 17 may. we have the malthusian envelopes, for example for agriculture: market expenditure will be cut off blindly by more than 500 million euros. the great classics are also there: 7 billion euros for foreign policy in the world, 5 billion euros for a research framework programme which will not require much, 850 million euros for the transeuropean expressways. all this while we wait for the 2008-2009 review, when everything will be discussed, from the british cheque to agriculture and the agricultural budget. the main budgetary debate will therefore take place in the 2010-14 period. in the meantime, we are waiting to talk about fisheries, erasmus and the citizens, and instead of having tea, as it is almost 5 p.m., we prefer to exchange the budgetary cookies with which our rapporteur has embellished his excellent report. which is still very nice.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, my group has always condemned terrorist acts, whatever their perpetrators, their scale and the reasons invoked to justify them. we are in favour of political struggle, to the exclusion of all forms of violence. we consider violence to be reprehensible in all circumstances except, as stated in the preamble to the universal declaration of human rights, when a people, in the absence of a rule of law, is "compelled, as a last resort, to revolt against tyranny and oppression". and even then, we believe that attacks on civilians should be prohibited. all the more reason why we have radically and systematically condemned the eta attacks which killed hundreds of innocent people. we remember these victims and reiterate our solidarity with their families. we have long hoped that this page could finally be turned and irreversibly so. that is to say, whether we have welcomed with deep satisfaction the announcement of the permanent ceasefire by eta. it also shows how much we appreciate the open and responsible attitude with which the spanish president of the council, josé luis zapatero, has seized this opportunity to try to win peace, especially in his speech of 28 june, by choosing the path of dialogue while ensuring respect for the legal norms and procedures in force in his country. the european parliament would be honoured to support this approach. it is in this spirit that the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left joined the pse group, the greens/efa group and the alde group in a joint resolution. i would add that we would be pleased if colleagues from the other groups would also support a move which is in line with the wish of the majority of the spanish people, namely that a peace process should begin on the basis of legality. (applause from the left)
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to emphasize what the citizens have learned from this informal summit in lahti: the visit of the russian president at a particularly tense time in relations between europe and russia, both on the energy strategy and on human rights, following the murder of russian journalists in recent days. i welcome the fact that europe has had the courage to speak frankly about its questions about freedom of expression in moscow, even if it has confined itself to rather diplomatic statements in front of the cameras. the european construction is based on the rule of law and respect for democratic values. it is up to us to make them work, both at home and with our partners. this does not mean, contrary to what the russian president has suggested, that europe believes itself to be perfect. we have our faults, but we also have a duty to express our discomfort and disapproval of disturbing deviations. europe is not just an economic community. on the energy issue, the russian president made it clear that he did not reject the principles of the energy charter and that he would be in favour of a document which would take up the principles while revising some of its provisions. i believe that this will be the whole point of the strategic partnership between the european union and russia which will be negotiated in the near future and of the european energy summit proposed by president chirac for next year. finally, on immigration, the positions of the two sides are still too far apart to be able to define quickly the common policy that we so badly need. member states seem to be much less eager than citizens to move forward on this issue to bring coherence to the different national policies within the schengen area, especially with regard to illegal immigration. the finnish presidency will have to draw concrete conclusions from the issues discussed at this informal summit in december. but without the political will of the member states, a presidency is reduced to impotence, even with the good will that finland is now showing.
mr president, the subject of immigration should have been discussed more widely in lahti. i think that is what all the countries on the borders of europe, and particularly the countries of the south, have asked for. we are very concerned because it is clear that the member states are still dragging their feet in the development of a genuine common immigration policy. on the other hand, some want to approach the question of immigration from the standpoint of repression alone. it seems to me that the emergency is first and foremost a humanitarian one. we must fight the exploitation of immigrants by networks that seek to reduce labour costs, circumvent labour law and social protection rules. we had a very interesting hearing yesterday in the european parliament, which showed that on european soil immigrants are treated as slaves. they are grossly underpaid, forced to work extremely long hours and in appalling housing conditions. they're being abused. some of them had their arms broken. it is because spain was confronted with these unacceptable living conditions and these people without rights that it decided to regularize en masse all those who worked on its territory, and i applaud the immense courage shown by this country. mass regularization is not and should not be the solution. but in this case, there was no other way. it had to be done. now we must all be vigilant in our countries to ensure that all immigrant workers have rights and are treated in the same way as all other workers. the credibility of the union and its values are at stake. if we really want to be effective in the field of immigration, the member states must finally agree to work together to put in place a genuine legal immigration policy and above all a genuine policy of co-development, as close as possible to the people, and they must be careful not to enrich dictators or feed corruption.
mr president, in finland president borrell has defended human rights, and that is to his credit. president barroso, without forgetting them, defended europe's energy rights. it's his duty. president chirac, like every head of state and government, defended his country's gas subscribers. it seems normal. but it disturbs the european conscience, which would have been disturbed in the same way if it had been saudi oil, iranian oil or some african oil. for me, the question is not whether you can buy gas from the devil. we'll buy it for you. the question is how do we get rid of the devil's gas? i think that in the years to come, and as far as you are concerned, mr president-in-office, in the next few months, it is independence that must guide us. in the next 10 to 20 years, oil and gas must be to our independence what coal and steel were to our peace. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few remarks on the european summit in lahti. firstly, at a time when our continent is experiencing an unprecedented wave of illegal immigration, the heads of state and government have not considered it appropriate to spend more than half an hour on this problem. there is absolutely nothing to be expected from the european union in this area, and it is urgent that any immigration policy be national and any cooperation on the subject intergovernmental. secondly, mr putin is perfectly right to want to retain a certain sovereignty over his country's energy resources and to refuse to sell them to the appetites of the multinational oil companies in the name of a liberalism whose philosophy he does not share. as for the human rights rhetoric, which must be the basis for the eu's relations with the rest of the world, it would gain credibility if it were not so selective and also targeted countries like china. finally, the council is still expected to condemn the turkish authorities, who have tried to force the expulsion of a cypriot member from a delegation of meps. it is becoming increasingly unacceptable to negotiate the accession of a country which refuses to recognise all the member states.
mr president, as regards the agenda for our sitting, i believe, if i am not mistaken, that it was announced that the vote would begin at 12.30 p.m. i have the impression that this explains why some of my colleagues are not here yet. could we not simply start the voting at 12.30 as announced? (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to make one comment, regardless of your views on this vote, and ask the chairman of the ppe-de group to comment on this: what has been said here is an outrage which the whole of parliament must reject! this president is elected by a large majority and has the right to lead any vote, whether you like it or not! the rest is shameless and filthy! (applause from the left)
mr president, i am speaking here as a member of the basque country, since my constituency covers ipar euskadi, that is to say the northern part. it is a very important day for the european parliament because we have decided, as good europeans, to apply the european method which makes dialogue the only solution to violence. the ingredients of the process applied in the basque country are the following: first, the cessation of violence; secondly, the opening of an open debate: peace is made only with enemies and not with friends. thirdly, a debate which must be conducted fairly and properly, so as not to anticipate the outcome. and finally, the outcome of the process, which, whatever it is, will have to be validated by the citizen. i insist that france should also be involved in the process. the basque country is situated on both sides of the pyrenees. i will end with a very beautiful sentence that i read on a wall in the basque country and i think it was gandhi: "there is no road to peace. peace is the way".
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by my colleague françois grossetête on behalf of the european people's party (epp) on the peace process in spain in the light of the problems in the basque country. i welcome the unanimous decision of the european parliament to condemn the use of violence, to pay tribute to the victims of terrorism and to call for a full return to peace. i regret that the political parties have not been able to reach a common text on such a serious matter, while considering that this matter is primarily the responsibility of the member states concerned; i am referring to spain and france and the political forces present there. i hope that reason will prevail and i am glad to have joined my voice to those who believe that this situation must be resolved by democracy and peace.
in writing. without prejudice to the substance and validity of the approach of the government of josé luis rodriguez zapatero, the european institutions are not called upon to take a position on a matter which is essentially a matter of the internal policy of a member state - the status and future of a province. this is particularly true when an internal debate pits a political majority against an opposition with equal intensity. the joint resolution, because it asks the council and the commission to take the appropriate measures, carries with it a clear risk of drift. the logic of some of the political groups which signed the resolution, which aim to internationalise the conflict, is dangerous and counterproductive. let the spanish handle this conflict among themselves. in these circumstances, an alternative resolution by the epp was fully justified. i would have liked, however, to have seen the argument as a rejection in principle of the examination of a matter within the territory of a member state. that is why i abstained on both resolutions.
mr president, i would like to speak on a personal note and ask the member who has just spoken to apologize. we don't call parliamentarians who don't vote like you idiots. (answering mr martinez who asked him) useful or useless idiot, it doesn't matter, i know, i read lenin as much as you, sir. that said, i would ask you, mr president, to ask the member of parliament i mentioned to apologize. then i will make my explanation of vote. (applause) (in reply to mr martinez who is calling again) i know lenin. just because lenin is an insult doesn't mean you have to be one.
mr president, i accept his apology, but i think that the use of an adjective does not diminish the meaning of the name it qualifies and a great imbecile is still an imbecile. isn't that right? the explanation of vote is now in order. like my colleagues from the udf, i voted in favour of the resolution supporting the peace initiative in the basque country, which was adopted by the spanish parliament. with this vote we wanted to show our solidarity with the democratic spanish authorities, even as a fragile process of eliminating violence and restoring civil peace in the basque country is under way. however, we voted for this resolution only because the new wording of paragraph 6 - which mr vidal-quadras rightly described as a substantial change in relation to the original text - very clearly recalls that this matter falls within the exclusive competence of spain. it would have been inappropriate for the european parliament to have taken over the spanish parliament in a matter of national sovereignty. the european parliament and the european council, on the other hand, are playing their full part in providing the spanish authorities with the moral and political support they are entitled to expect. in this respect, it is paradoxical to say the least that parliament intends the spanish popular party to denounce international interference in the internal affairs of their country while proposing a resolution condemning, without any nuance or ambiguity, the vote of the cortes. the european parliament is certainly more respectful of the sovereignty of spain by supporting the decisions taken by the legal authorities than by condemning them, as the spanish opposition urged us to do. instead of trying to intimidate french members of the centre, as he did in this morning's le figaro, mr mariano rajoy should have asked himself whether his own approach and that of his party in strasbourg were consistent.
in writing. already at first reading, in april 2006, we had spoken against this report, as the aberrations it contained were so great. this proposal for a second reading is not worse, it is simply unacceptable. with a total budget of eur 190 million, this programme is a new propaganda tool for the european union. we could certainly find better uses for this money, i am thinking in particular of the social field, aid for agriculture or the creation of businesses, rather than attributing it to this vague and artificial concept of european citizenship. this text, which is totally manichean, gives us a perfect demonstration of what is right: to be 'a follower of active european values', what is wrong: to be 'a passive citizen', and worse: to be a eurosceptic! whatever happens after the approval, i have no doubt, of this report and all this money wasted in various associations, we will remain above all, all national and proud of being.
in writing. the schengen information system (sis) is a police cooperation instrument which aims to centralise and facilitate the exchange of information on wanted persons, objects or vehicles between police services in the member states. some 13 million pieces of information are stored in the current system. we are being asked to create a second generation of sis, sis ii, which would be extended to the new member states. we cannot adhere to it. nor have we joined schengen i, which provides for the free movement of persons by removing the internal frontiers of the member states. the problem is not to have a supercomputer that can list all the people or property wanted by the police, but to ensure that each national territory can be a safe area. the mass immigration that is sweeping the european coastlines every day proves that it is the frontiers that must be protected, that they are the real gateways to insecurity and illegality. all the computers in the world could thus collect as much personal data as possible, but the fact remains that the main source of the problems of insecurity, trafficking of all kinds and illegal immigration is the lack of effective control of the internal and external borders of the european union.
in writing. we impose globalisation on the people of europe, guaranteeing that they will ultimately benefit from it, because it promotes exports and opens up markets to our competitors as much as our markets are open to them. but we can see that this globalisation is far from a win-win game, that the so-called fortress europe is a sieve, but that it allows fortresses to be built all over the world, especially in the most promising markets. as mrs muscardini's report explains, the reason for this is that the european union has not reacted, or has reacted weakly or inadequately, to the abusive trade defence measures taken by certain third countries against the eu, which are in fact nothing more than disguised and unfair protectionist practices. the rapporteur, mr muscardini, rightly stresses the need to strengthen the union's trade defence. but the concrete solutions proposed are not up to the challenge, as faith in the benefits of global ultra-liberalism and the virtues of multilateralism has become an intangible dogma. today, this system has reached its limits. the wto is no longer the solution, it is the problem. it is because the proposals do not reflect the correctness of the analyses that we shall abstain on this report.
in writing. the european union is concerned that the giant factories of india and china are taking protectionist measures against our exports using trade defence instruments. the united states is no longer europe's only economic competitor, but so are brazil, south america and australia. the global regulator that the wto should be is not only powerless but complicit. so the ultra-liberal globalist bubble is about to burst. the unregulated speculation in property, goods and people has just reached its limit. after having enjoyed spectacular economic growth, the emerging countries are consolidating and protecting themselves in order to overtake us one day if we do not react very quickly. in the meantime, the brussels europeists are calling for our borders to be opened up a little more and to continue to help the whole world blindly and without control, forgetting our fellow citizens. like the new world powers, we must establish community protection and preference in europe and national protection and preference in france.
for the greens/efa group mr president, a short while ago we applauded the peaceful revolution in georgia and encouraged its young leaders to establish genuine democracy. today, as we know, georgia is having difficulty resolving the conflicts with its breakaway regions, and the escalation of provocations on both sides is not contributing to their peaceful resolution. worse, an armed intervention could set the whole caucasus ablaze, as we are all aware. we must therefore strongly urge the georgian authorities to calm down and to resume the peace process in south ossetia in a constructive manner. however, georgia has extenuating circumstances. the neighbouring country, russia, is not playing it cool. by way of comparison, last week in lahti, south ossetia and kosovo, mr putin added fuel to the caucasian fire even as he was expected to restore confidence by normalizing neighbourly relations with georgia. contrary to its claims, russia is indeed a party to this conflict. has it not granted russian passports to the georgian population of south ossetia? what validity do you recognize in a referendum concerning 80% of russian citizens? and what neutrality can we expect from the peacekeepers in russian-dominated south ossetia? let alone the unilateral russian embargo and the ongoing hunt for georgians in russia, which demonstrate a desire to destabilize georgia. so, of course, the neighbourhood policy and enhanced cooperation with russia are tools for us, but let me not share the council's position on the renewal of the peacekeeping forces. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that we really have to ask ourselves how we can ensure the neutrality and impartiality of these forces. we should perhaps be prepared to help renew these forces of peace if necessary. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this toxic waste affair is a criminal act, as if the south were the garbage of the north. and when it comes to crime, it comes to guilt and punishment. but so far, impunity and laxity have prevailed. the union does have legislation on the transport of toxic waste: export has been prohibited since 1997 under the basel convention. but this ban has so far been systematically flouted. this permissiveness is criminal and the dead in abidjan are its victims. the union must now act, and act quickly, to put an end to irresponsibility and impunity. it must apply existing legislation, in particular the july 2006 directive which requires member states to set up inspection networks. it must, if necessary, strengthen this legislation to allow for swift and effective sanctions, as both the commission and the european parliament have been calling for since 2001. finally, it must help african countries to establish protective legislation. we support your voluntary declarations, but we must now move on to concrete action. we expect this in particular from the council.
my dear colleagues, what a mess! the few citizens who are interested in our debates will hardly understand why a debate on pollution in côte d'ivoire is being mixed up this afternoon with another on a case law that upsets the principle of subsidiarity. the fact that the judgment of 13 september 2005 was delivered on an environmental directive does not change that. its wording is in fact a judgment in principle on the communitization of criminal law. this is a real constitutional revolution, because we know that at least nine other areas of competence are being absorbed, without a treaty, by the european union, including criminal immigration law and intellectual property law. yes, there is pollution, ladies and gentlemen, there is a real judicial pollution of the european treaties by the luxembourg court! in this confused and ill-founded judgment there is no textual reference and no clear case-law principle. vague, ill-defined and over-drawn considerations of expediency lead to his hasty and sloppy conclusion. the mechanics are familiar. the vague conclusions command the indefinite extension of the competences of the european union, then justify the interpretation of the commission, which finally legitimizes the transfer of powers from the states to the court. those who, like us, were wary of the substantial enlargement of the union's objectives in article 103 of the draft constitution were quite right. the commissioners and the judges are not prepared to bow to the will of the people and are determined to ignore the refusal to ratify a draft constitution which was precisely the one which was passing criminal matters through the ordinary community legislative procedure. this judgment distorts the will of those who signed and ratified the european treaties. this is a legal coup. we are on the verge of important deadlines. our people are watching us and will soon hold us accountable. will there be any sincere democrats here to reject this blue dictatorship?
for the greens/efa group madam president, a major obstacle to the signing of the agreement is the deteriorating human rights situation in syria. the observers regularly report on arbitrary arrests, torture, blatant discrimination against minorities, restrictions on freedom of expression and association, harassment and imprisonment of those peacefully working to improve freedoms in syria. i am thinking of michel kilo, anwar al bunni and mahmoud issa, who are still in detention for having signed the beirut-damascus declaration in may this year calling for the normalization of relations between lebanon and syria. michel kilo was due to be released on 19 october but a new charge has extended his detention. mr issa, who was released on 25 september, was arrested again two days ago. these and many other examples demonstrate the lack of real will on the part of the syrian authorities to undertake the necessary democratic reforms. in these circumstances - and you say so, mrs de keyser - it is unthinkable that the european union should conclude an association agreement with syria. as the resolution states, improving the human rights situation and respect for democratic values must be a precondition for any agreement. it is also important to establish an effective monitoring mechanism in the context of the application of the human rights clause. this approach should also be applied to russia and turkmenistan, among others, and to many other countries. the consistency of parliament's positions is at stake.
madam president-in-office of the council, i should like to begin by thanking mrs de keyser for this excellent report. the conclusion of an association agreement between the european community and syria would be a very encouraging political signal for peace in the middle east, which we all wish for. association agreements are an excellent means of putting pressure on states. so in return for our economic and trade cooperation we must ask syria to become a democratic country that respects fundamental freedoms, to stop interfering in the affairs of its neighbours, to strictly delimit its border with lebanon and to stop supporting the hezbollah militias or the hamas radicals it hosts. syria must release the intellectuals, human rights defenders and political prisoners it holds in its prisons. it must also respect the rights of the minorities living on its territory, in particular the kurds, to whom it must offer citizenship because they do not have it. if syria were to abandon its greater syria project, if it were to turn to allies other than iran, the entire region would benefit. syria, more than any other country in the region, is in a position to play a regulatory and peacemaking role, particularly in the iraqi and palestinian issues. europe must work to include syria among its strategic allies in the middle east. if the wind of change were to blow in syria and if it were to adopt an open policy, the entire population of the middle east could finally begin to break free from the yoke of dictatorship and theocratic populism.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, syria is a country that cannot be ignored in the context of the crisis in the middle east. breaking off dialogue leads to isolation and carries the risk of a radicalization of the regime. it is to push it further into the arms of iran, which only aspires to the destruction of israel and the destabilization of the region. today, however, if we are to reopen a dialogue with syria, we must be very careful to set firm conditions beforehand. we must demand that syria respect the sovereignty of lebanon and comply with the security council resolutions calling on it to strengthen its controls on the lebanese-syrian border and to stop supplying arms to hezbollah. we must make respect for human rights and civil liberties a precondition for any agreement. we must demand that it give concrete follow-up to the findings of the inquiry into the assassination of former prime minister rafic hariri. i would remind you that this is also an essential condition for the continuation of the negotiations. finally, it must clearly explain to the international community the measures it is taking to combat effectively and concretely the proliferation of weapons and terrorism in the region. i mean that it must also stop all support for the militias of hezbollah and hamas. if the european union is to consider reopening negotiations with syria, it should do so only if syria accepts and respects these conditions. today, the elements necessary for the signing of any association agreement are not in place, and i regret that. it is a matter of inviting syria to emerge from its logic of isolation and to place it before the responsibilities that belong to it in a region where all actors must work to seek peace and stability.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank all my colleagues, and in particular barbara weiler and werner langen, with whom we have done a wonderful job. let us hope that the text will be voted on tomorrow. it is simply a question of securing the exercise of subsidiarity for tools, ppps, which are very familiar to our local authorities, and have been for many, many years. i welcome the commission's intention to legislate on concessions, which have been confused with public procurement for too long. but, as i say here, i believe that we also need to legislate on institutional public-private partnerships. it is wrong to say that these are new forms: mixed-economy companies have existed since 1955 in france and stadtwerke for a very long time in germany. but today, to subject them to double competition is to condemn them. what private partner would agree to work with a local authority that puts it in competition a second time? i would also draw the commissioner's attention to the danger of inter-municipal structures, which are liable to be confused with private structures, when they are a wholly public form of organisation for small municipalities which are striving to be large enough to cope with increasingly demanding public service obligations and tasks.
commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the barbara weiler report provides the clarity and readability we needed on public-private partnerships, which makes it possible to correct the errors of the european court of justice and to improve legal clarity for all those involved. concessions are too often confused with public procurement: the latter involve the purchase of goods for consumption by the local authority, whereas concessions give the public authority the possibility of delegating the performance of part of its tasks to a third party. so yes to legislation on these concessions and not just to an interpretative communication. the same applies to institutionalized ppps. their creation is currently threatened by the rigors of the case law which tends to double competition for the award of works, which would seal the fate of mixed economy companies. so i thank our rapporteur for calling for a legislative initiative on this subject. finally, in the commission v spain judgment, the intermunicipal structure became a private partner for the court of justice. a municipality should therefore compete with an intermunicipal structure to which it delegates service provision. mrs weiler is restoring the rule of law and is giving us the best parliamentary contribution on this subject, and i thank her for that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must recognize the real existence of a european labour market, particularly in the service sector, which, more than any other, involves the displacement of workers. we are in favour of this, but not on any conditions and not at the risk of social dumping. human labour is not a commodity and cannot be subject to the rules of free competition. we expressed this concern during the debate on the services directive and parliament rejected - you recalled - articles 24 and 25 of that directive, which deal specifically with the relaxation of the conditions for the posting of workers. it is unacceptable that the commission should question this position and ignore the criticisms made by parliament. the directive on the posting of workers is poorly applied in the member states and does not meet its objectives. but should the rules be relaxed or, on the contrary, should the will to enforce them be strengthened? i do not believe that reporting requirements, effective controls and the preservation of records create an unnecessary bureaucratic burden when it comes to protecting the social rights of posted and local workers. the only people who benefit from laxity in this area are the fraudsters. in addition, the strengthening of the enforcement and the threat of financial sanctions must act as a deterrent. i therefore support this report and urge the commission and the member states to resolve the difficulties in implementing the directive, which we are not at this stage calling for to be amended.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr president of the european central bank, ladies and gentlemen, the annual report of the central bank always provides the european parliament with an opportunity to take stock of monetary policy and to supplement the work of the economic and monetary affairs committee through the monetary dialogue that we hold four times a year with the president of the central bank. we all remember that last year we rejected this report, which did not correspond to the guidelines that this parliament wanted. the year 2005 is a special year in which the central bank initiated a movement of five interest rate hikes, the first of which was on 1 december. these successive increases are taking place in a particular economic context, determined both by the rise in oil prices, by an exchange rate unfavourable to euro area exports and in the context of a recovery in economic growth which the most informed observers consider to be fragile. in these circumstances, this report calls on the central bank to analyse carefully the conditions under which it conducts its monetary policy. the report also stresses - and i welcome this - the importance of the euro-dollar parity for growth in the european union and draws a number of conclusions from it, which have been drawn up in a spirit of compromise, taking into account the need for each monetary authority to exercise its responsibilities in the field of exchange rates fully. i hope that compromise will still exist at the time of the vote. i would nevertheless like to express some regret that it is not possible in this report to address both the question of household indebtedness and the need to improve the coordination of economic policies. let me mention a number of points, mr president, on which i believe this report makes an original contribution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the euro is not used as a currency. but let us now come to the essential points for this parliament, namely the conditions under which democratic control is exercised and the way in which the central bank functions as an institution. in this respect, we wanted to contribute, before the next renewal of a member of the executive board, to the necessary debate which must be opened up between the institutions so that the members of the executive board can represent the interests of the euro area in the best possible way. we believe that to this end the ecb should be treated in the same way as other central banks, i.e. with a diversity of profiles and a balanced portfolio. we are in agreement in this parliament that the balance between nations should not be regarded as an eternal status quo and we also believe that the diversity of profiles should enrich the contributions and the plurality of the executive board. i also hope that this parliament will advocate that the council, when it decides to validate an appointment to the executive board, should exercise its full decisionmaking power by making its choice on the basis of a plurality of candidates. i am familiar with the argument you often use, mr president of the central bank, and that jean-claude trichet also sometimes uses: a plurality of candidates would harm the careers of those who would not be selected for such a post. let me say that as observers of international appointment processes, our analysis is quite different. on an international scale, the only position that is filled without competition or plurality of candidates - and i come from a party which, as you know, these days knows this exercise and all its qualities - is the presidency of the world bank. this does not apply to the imf, the oecd or the wto. we therefore believe that, from this point of view, the integrated area of the euro area should allow for this plurality of candidates. of course, we are also asking for the european parliament to finally be empowered to approve the appointment of the members of the executive board, which i believe would only strengthen the authority of the said members of the executive board, their legitimacy and their capacity to embody a strong voice for the euro area, including on the international scene. that is the whole purpose of this parliament, namely that the central bank should be, on the international scene, alongside the council and the eurogroup, the major and legitimate interlocutor we need to make europe's voice heard on such important subjects as those which you, mr president, have been pleased to address and on which this parliament wishes to make its contribution. i am thinking of course of the alternative funds, on which i hope that the compromise we have worked out in the committee on economic and monetary affairs will be supported by all the groups at the time of the vote.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since we are discussing the report of the european central bank, allow me to say a few words to its president. mr trichet, you are really the phoenix of a very bad system for all the peoples of europe. as such, you have probably been the best campaigner, despite yourself, otherwise it would be known, of the 'no' of the french and dutch peoples to the european constitutional treaty, and we thank you for that. the principles on which the european central bank is founded are already in themselves an obstacle to growth in the euro area, but when, despite your action, there is growth, it creates little or no jobs and only benefits the richest. the european central bank claims to have brought inflation under control. in fact, the lower and middle classes have seen their purchasing power melt while the rich have never been richer. you defend the worst of capitalism, that of rentiers and the impoverishment of the middle and working classes. your inertia in the face of the us-led policy of a weak dollar is destroying, day after day, thousands of industrial, skilled and value-adding jobs in the euro zone. you represent the bank of squalor and mass unemployment. for all these reasons, we must break with a european central bank that is dictated by the financial markets and is not bound by the will of the people of the union. a new treaty is urgently needed which gives the european central bank a role in employment, training and research, and this must be done under the close control of our parliament and the national parliaments. this new treaty must replace the financial stability pact with a social progress pact for jobs and growth which will boost public spending on health, training, education, social housing, culture, transport and infrastructure throughout the union. it is at the cost of these decisions that we shall succeed in restoring the confidence of the european people. if that were not the case, the gap between our institutions and the various peoples would continue to widen. the wealth gap between the peoples of the union, between citizens of the same country, would continue to widen. it would be a further step towards the rise of anti-european extremism and nationalism.
mr president, mr president of the european central bank, yesterday we were discussing breast cancer here and nobody seemed concerned about fighting inflation. that is, if in the moments of truth in a life, the hierarchy of things is changed: we go to the essentials! but is the fight against inflation the essence of economic life? the introduction of the father of central bank independence and the son of price stability in our resolution, hoping that the holy spirit of prosperity will descend from the united states, may be good for central bank independence, but it is bad for the peoples! personally, mr trichet, i understand very well that you are bound by monetary aggregates one, two and three, the fine tuning and the steering of interest rates by sight. but even in milton friedman's country, chile is allowed to run a 1% budget surplus while the united states is budgetary doping. so we have to ask the real question: if the german grandmother had inflationary diabetes in the 1920s, is it necessary that 80 years later all of europe should be eating without budgetary sugar and without monetary sugar?
the report by my colleague berès on the european central bank's annual report for 2005 is disappointing because it does not sufficiently emphasise the need for political reflection on the use of the euro to support growth and employment. in an increasingly complex world, characterized by economic and social warfare of extreme violence, not having a high-quality and wide-ranging political debate on this subject is, today, a mistake that may turn into a fault in the future. the european central bank and its president, mr jean-claude trichet, must bear in mind that article 105 of the treaty establishing the european community clearly states that, without prejudice to the objective of price stability, the european system of central banks must support the economic policies of the union. at a time when the rise in raw materials and energy is creating natural inflationary tensions in the world, we must reflect on the impact of this situation on our internal market and our common currency, and seriously ask ourselves whether the time has not come to transform the euro from a remarkable technical achievement into a political currency.
mr president, this is a point of order and a point of order, and it is based on rule 188. we have just learned after the bureau meeting that the israeli government would like to exclude from the political discussions the israeli delegation of mrs marine le pen, who is a member of that delegation in a spirit of discussion, dialogue and openness. i would like to thank mr brok for his perfectly correct attitude and to make it very clear that when mr krivine was similarly excluded by a decision of the united states government, whatever the difference of opinion between us, we were in full agreement that it was not the host government's responsibility to determine the composition of the european parliament delegation. i therefore hope, mr president, that as the guardian of the rights of all members of parliament, you will be pleased to remind the israeli authorities of this.
mr president, because it has never been proved that the manpower solution for session assistants is cheaper with equal staff and working hours, and because parliament is constantly seeking to make savings, we propose to help it by adding the following sentence at the end of paragraph 31: 'reject, because it is too expensive, the solution of using a temporary agency as a substitute for session assistants'. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. mr president, on amendment no 12 tabled by the ppe group on post-marketing, we would like to make an oral amendment. i will say it in english. rather than its own settlement infrastructure, we should say, a settlement infrastructure.
in writing. the european parliament adopted the 2007 budget of the european union at first reading on thursday 26 october. the 120 billion euro is the first year of the new financial perspective for 2007-13, which was adopted last may and which the french socialists did not approve, believing that it does not allow them to meet the major challenges of the future. in this context, the 2007 budget is very modest, corresponding to a level of 1.04% of the gni of the european union. the many internal and international constraints on the european union have led parliament to identify priorities which should help citizens to better perceive the union's added value. the socialists therefore decided to vote on this 2007 budget after obtaining satisfaction on their priorities linked to the lisbon and gothenburg strategies. this is particularly the case for education, training, research and sustainable development. the renewal of the communication policy and the emergence of new pilot projects are also positive for the future of the european union.
in writing. this vote is part of an unacceptable multiannual budgetary framework. a detailed examination of the budget lines shows that there is a glaring lack of funds in many areas such as research, innovation, major technological projects such as galileo and the major transeuropean networks. this budget will not encourage the recovery of growth in europe. european aid to the countries of the south, to africa and the maghreb is years away from a development policy which, however, should be implemented urgently to deal with the imbalances in migration and poverty. it is urgent to create a european tax guaranteeing a high level of own resources for a european budget that is finally up to the challenge!
in writing. the european parliament voted today, under the urgency procedure, a council regulation on the management of fishing fleets registered in the outermost regions, which extends the current regulation for one year. the main derogations allowed relate to the entry of fishing vessels into the fleet, public aid for the renewal of vessels and aid for modernisation. this regulation takes account of the situation of the fisheries sector in the outermost regions, which still has a great potential for development and abundant fisheries resources. it would therefore be unthinkable and counterproductive to prevent the fishing fleets of these regions from benefiting from such facilities! i hope that the overseas fishermen will take advantage of these new deadlines to develop and modernise their fleets. i regret, however, that the european commission has not yet suggested any longer-term orientation. i have already asked on many occasions for these derogations to be extended beyond 2006. it would have been better to accept this proposal from the outset rather than to ask our parliament every year to extend to the following year derogations which are in any case essential for the fisheries of our regions!
in writing. the conference of the parties in montreal last year concluded with a decision to continue discussions on the kyoto protocol and its objectives after 2012. on the eve of the new annual conference, the situation remains as uncertain and therefore poses serious threats to the future of the kyoto protocol, particularly following the statements of the new canadian government. this is not understandable or acceptable, even though there are more and more warning signs and the forecasts point to a 50% increase in co2 emissions by 2030, which runs counter to the objectives set, as our institution regularly points out. there is a very broad consensus in the european union, with the etuc (european trade union confederation) supporting very ambitious targets to combat climate change. there is an urgent need to act and take decisions and measures to meet the challenges facing europe and the whole planet. responding to them is a powerful driver for research and technological innovation, and a modernisation of our productive apparatus.
mr president, the naiades programme on the development of inland waterways and mrs wortmann-kool's report contain excellent things. i would like to take this opportunity to stress the need to complete the rhine-rhone link. this is a very important route which will link the south of france and the western mediterranean with the rhine, the main and the danube basins and, therefore, with the new and emerging markets of central and eastern europe, all the way to the black sea. i believe that this is a very important programme and i hope that the funds mobilised under this programme should be used primarily to complete this link - i was not unaware of the technical and environmental difficulties which i believe are insurmountable.
in writing. the weiler report put to the vote today contains a number of positive elements on the future of public-private partnerships, in particular in the light of the green paper and the european commission's communication com ((2005) 0569). i welcome the clear distinction proposed between public procurement and concessions and the call for a legislative initiative in the latter area. while i very much regret that the european parliament did not wish to extend this approach to institutional public-private partnerships, the amendments adopted in plenary mark a notable step forward towards a future definition of in-house production, i.e. in the sense of securing the position of european territorial authorities. although it is not perfect, this interim text does, in my view, present a set of advances which explain my final vote in favour and which it will be for the commission to fully incorporate in its future proposals on this subject.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the community legal framework for public-private partnerships (ppp) does indeed need clarification. but this clarification must respect a number of principles, in particular: it must actually concern only public-private partnerships, be based on a distinction between partnerships/markets on the one hand and partnerships/concessions on the other, respect the specificities of the partnerships/markets and therefore renounce any new specific regulation of ppps, not call into question the rule of the negotiated procedure applied to concessions, respect the freedom of choice of organisation (creation of mixed-economy companies or other legal forms, takeover of a private company by a public structure, outsourcing, etc.) of the national public authorities, and finally ensure that any community initiative is consistent with the public service imperatives and national choices in this area. all this is unlikely to require the adoption of new binding legal acts. since the european union's intervention in these matters seems inevitable, let us at least make sure that it does not lead to the development of one of those bureaucratic machinations of which brussels-based europe is the secret.
in writing. the rapporteur rightly wants to counteract the european commission's unfortunately chronic liberal drift. it is unacceptable that in its communication the commission has attempted to reintroduce the principle of country of origin, which was rejected by the european parliament when it voted on the services directive. i agree with the rapporteur who calls for strict application and control of this directive as soon as possible and for the introduction of financial penalties. the commission must accept the case law of the court of justice, which distinguishes between selfemployed and posted workers and ensures the most favourable social standard for the latter.
in writing. it is a fact: the directive on the posting of workers, which is poorly applied in some member states, does not meet its objectives. this is due to differences in the interpretation of some key concepts (worker, minimum wage and subcontracting), the difficulties in monitoring compliance with the directive and in accessing information, both for workers and smes. an effective system of cooperation between member states requires a stronger involvement of the social partners, the provision of information to posted workers on their respective rights and the contact points for enterprises, in particular smes and craft enterprises. finally, it is now imperative that the european commission examine constructive solutions to prevent and eliminate unfair competition, as exemplified by letterbox companies or double posting from one state to another, as well as social dumping resulting from the abusive posting of workers, in particular through the 'fake self-employed'. the aim is not to change the acquis of the directive, but to improve it. that is why i voted in favour of mrs schroedter's own-initiative report.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that mrs beres' report is a statement of the failure of the monetary policy pursued by the ecb. in fact, the only really positive news it brings is the profit the bank makes and the fact that it is at least creating jobs within its walls, since its staff (and why should it, god forbid!) has increased by 86% in 7 years. we are now at the point where, in order to make the euro more popular with the citizens of europe, the rapporteur is calling for the banknotes to be changed so that the images of these non-existent bridges are replaced by real people, landscapes and monuments that are rooted in the culture of our continent. my colleagues from the national front and i have had many opportunities here to express our disapproval of this policy, its disastrous effect on employment and the purchasing power of europeans, its focus on financial rather than economic objectives, its punitive absence of exchange rate policy and, today, its policy of raising interest rates which will impede growth even more. our opinion hasn't changed.
in writing. with the introduction of the euro 7 years ago, the purchasing power of europeans has decreased considerably. in the eurozone there was indeed a rise in prices for everyday and leisure consumption, and an even more pronounced trend in real estate due to a lack of supervision of hedge funds. thus, not to mention the over-indebtedness, the lower and middle classes are the hardest hit. economic growth in the eurozone has even slowed. in fact, gdp by volume increased from +1.8% in 2004 to +1.4% in 2005. the outlook for 2007-13 is even more worrying, as the euro will put european growth at risk a little more as soon as the exchange rate becomes too favourable against the dollar. not only does this bank with its europeanist foundations and philosophy have a democratic deficit and a certain lack of transparency, but none of the economic and social objectives of the european union will be achieved. these indicators should convey the message that we must leave the euro zone and that nations must regain their powers over economic, social and monetary decisions in a free europe where national and community protection and preference will come first.
the agenda calls for debates on cases of violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
the agenda calls for the consideration of six motions for resolutions on tibet.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission fully shares the concerns expressed by the honourable members of parliament regarding the recent shooting by china’s people’s liberation army of tibetan refugees at the border between the people’s republic of china and nepal, the subsequent death of one of them and the imprisonment of some of those refugees. the matter has been formally taken up by the european union in the framework of the last session of the eu-china human rights dialogue, held in beijing on 19 october, as rightly mentioned by the honourable member from finland. on that occasion, the european union refuted the claim by china that the shooting had been in self-defence, urged the chinese government to undertake a thorough investigation of the incident and insisted that the imprisoned refugees be treated in compliance with international humanitarian standards. more generally, the commission is very concerned about the human rights situation in tibet, and in particular the preservation of the cultural, religious and linguistic identity of the tibetan people. this issue has been regularly addressed during the bilateral dialogue on human rights as well as at the highest level, during bilateral summits. the european union is particularly concerned about the number of tibetans from religious backgrounds who are in prison for political reasons, and has repeatedly asked for their immediate release. several of these people are on the list of individual cases regularly submitted to the chinese authorities on the margins of these dialogues. the commission believes that china’s policy in tibet is not consistent with the provisions of the international covenant on civil and political rights. the early ratification by china of this covenant ranks among the top priorities of the european union in the field of human rights and we have left china in no doubt as to the need to fully respect the spirit of that covenant, once it has been signed and even before it is ratified. as part of its overall policy vis-à-vis tibet, the european union has consistently taken the view that establishing a direct dialogue between the dalai lama and the chinese authorities is the only realistic way to find a peaceful and lasting solution to the question of tibet. we have therefore welcomed and closely monitored the five rounds of talks so far held between the special envoys of the dalai lama and the chinese government. the commission urges both sides to continue this dialogue and use these talks to try to make substantive progress.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today after the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on five motions for resolutions on the trial of rios montt see minutes of the sitting.
i would point out to our friends in the visitors' gallery that they may have been surprised for a few tens of seconds that there was no translation, simply because our colleague was speaking in gaelic, which is not yet an official working language of parliament but will become one on 1 january next.
member of the commission. mr president, as guatemala is preparing to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the signature of the peace accords that put an end to 36 years of civil war, the commission shares the opinion that everything possible should be done to bring justice to those having suffered human rights violations during the darkest hours of the conflict. in that respect, the commission takes note of the legal proceedings instituted against former military and political officials for their alleged role at that time. the commission once again calls upon all parties to wholeheartedly support the quest for truth and justice and to fight impunity where it prevails. the commission welcomes the willingness of the present government, albeit timid, to recognise the state’s responsibility for past violations of human rights and to secure compensation for victims. it furthermore acknowledges the country’s commitment to consolidate the implementation of the peace accords, as confirmed by the congress in august 2005 with a vote on a framework law establishing procedures and mechanisms to secure the effective attainment of the objectives set ten years ago. finally, the commission praises the work of the human rights ombudsman and welcomes the establishment in july 2005 of an office of the un high commissioner for human rights. sadly, however, the country continues to be marred by the impunity characterising not just past but also present crimes. this affects all citizens, including human rights defenders who are notably involved in assisting civil war victims. the government agrees that this situation is not acceptable, but still has to take decisive action to reinforce the rule of law. a european programme is currently offering support to the judiciary, but more public funds and structural reforms will be required if lasting improvements are to be made. the commission is also eagerly awaiting the establishment of a ‘commission of investigation into armed groups and clandestine security apparatus’. we hope the guatemalan congress will provide the necessary support for this, as well as for the pending ratification of the rome statute of the international criminal court. the commission believes the european union should pursue dialogue with guatemala on key issues relating to the implementation of the peace accords, particularly as the country gears up for the general elections scheduled for the end of 2007. the constitutional court has, by the way, recently declared general rios montt ineligible for those elections following the coup he led in 1982. the issue of impunity for past and present crimes should be central in this context.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today after the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on uzbekistan see minutes of the sitting.
member of the commission. mr president, although one and a half years have passed, the mass killings at andijan on 13 may 2005 remain fresh in all our memories. the uzbek authorities have rejected international demands for an independent enquiry and no credible investigation of the killings has taken place. the trials of those persons who took part in the demonstrations that led to the killings have been condemned by the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights as patently unfair. subsequent developments also give little ground for optimism. torture is reported to remain widespread. no international body has been able to obtain access to refugees returned to uzbekistan. uzbekistan refuses to cooperate with united nations special procedures. civil society and human rights defenders are subject to constant harassment. indeed, many human rights defenders have been imprisoned. the commission has noted with particular concern that several prominent human rights activists have been sentenced to several years’ imprisonment, while mukhtabar todjibaeva remains in detention. we are aware of many similar cases. despite this bleak picture, nothing is to be gained by cutting off all channels of communication with uzbekistan. as honourable members are aware, in response to the andijan killings, the european union adopted sanctions against uzbekistan, namely as mentioned here earlier, an arms embargo, a travel ban for those individuals responsible for the andijan killings and the suspension of technical meetings with uzbekistan. a decision whether to prolong or extend the scope of these sanctions must be taken by 14 november. in order to enable member states to obtain a full and comprehensive picture of the situation in uzbekistan, a cooperation council will be held with uzbekistan at the beginning of november. moreover, this cooperation council will provide an opportunity for the european union to raise directly with the uzbek authorities, at ministerial level, our many concerns on andijan and its aftermath. in the light of this cooperation council, the member states will take their decision on the possible prolongation or extension of the sanctions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, after the debate, that is to say immediately.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
is there any objection to the oral amendment being taken into account?
mr. posselt, i think you are right. we shall ask mr pinior to give us the necessary details.
- this is an oral amendment to paragraph 2 and is designed to reduce the text. (the oral amendment was retained)
we thank you for your explanation, mr matsakis, but you must find 36 colleagues who will stand with you to make 37 and thus be able to oppose this amendment. the best of arguments does not allow me to reject the oral amendment if the house does not object to it and i do not see any members standing. (the oral amendment was accepted) voting time is now over.
don't worry, all this will be taken care of by the session services.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
mr president, i just want to point out that on thursday i forgot to sign the attendance sheet but i did participate in all the roll-call votes on thursday noon and thursday evening.
mr president, the socialist group is calling for the report by mrs bachelot on the european globalisation adjustment fund to be postponed. the fact is that coreper and the finnish presidency only finalised their version of the regulation on friday 10 november, and it did not reach us until late in the afternoon. therefore, while we have been working with the rapporteur all last week in informal meetings with the council and the commission, we have been unable to have a first discussion between us between friday evening and today. we therefore ask that both the debate and the votes be postponed until the second part-session in november, so that we can continue to examine the proposals which the council is making to us.
the rapporteur. mr president, i also speak with the agreement of the ppe-de group to support the position of my colleague, mr jean-louis cottigny, and to ask for the vote and debate to be postponed. as my colleague has just said, the last information on the council's positions came to us only a few hours ago. the council's position has been very much reconciled with that of parliament, as expressed by its two committees responsible, the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on budgets. it is not guaranteed, but perhaps on this basis we could get a first reading agreement, which would enable us to make this fund operational as early as next year, as i think almost all the members of this house want. that is why i support jean-louis cottigny's position.
mr president, i would like to speak again about the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor. they're still in tripoli, in the libyan state prisons. you know as well as i do that they are being held on false charges. the review of their trial was due to be completed by the end of october. however, in october the court again postponed its decision until 19 december. the court says it is beginning to consider the opinion of international experts, who are tirelessly providing evidence of the innocence of the accused. mr president, could we not once again express our concern for the fate of these prisoners, who have been tortured and have been away from home for eight years for having treated young libyans? this is intolerable, because every month they are promised a trial. and this new trial, the third, is unfair, unjust and leaves them in the throes of a death sentence.
mr president, an unprecedented power outage struck western europe on the night of 4 to 5 november. it reveals the fragility of the european energy system and the lack of electricity generation and transmission capacity, the result of a poor investment policy. despite the risk of blackouts, european operators have been reducing their investment levels for the past six years, from 16 to 10% of their turnover. at the same time, electricity consumption has been steadily increasing by 1.8% per year. this decline in investment is a direct consequence of the liberalisation of the energy market. rather than investing in the development of new production capacity, operators concentrate their efforts on profits and buying up their competitors. citizens are seeing the rise in electricity prices on the one hand and the decline in security on the other. only a european energy policy could guarantee good cooperation between member states and the necessary investments of around €700 billion by 2030. electricity is a public good: this must be reflected in political initiatives of the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i welcome the opportunity this plenary debate offers us to take stock together of the functioning of the euro area at a time when, as you said, certain prospects are improving, but when, also, everyone is aware that the growth potential is not being fully exploited and when our economies are handicapped by an exchange rate which makes it difficult for euro area exports and is leading some of our companies to consider relocating to produce in the dollar zone. this report provides an opportunity to take stock at a time when the stability pact has been revised and everyone is aware that the commitments made by the euro area member states may need to be better differentiated from those made outside the area. in this respect, the report is useful and i think we should also congratulate mr garcía-margallo on the spirit in which he has dealt with it. we need to go beyond the reform of the stability pact to better coordinate timetables and data, to verify that, in essence, the commission and the central bank do not assess the performance of the euro area member states solely in terms of their deficits, but also in terms of their strengths and weaknesses in a more global context. you mentioned this in your speech, commissioner, and i thank you for it. i would urge you to continue along this path. the macroeconomic analysis will also have to be better aligned with developments on financial markets. the way in which the rating agencies have been able to take an interest in the italian question and assess the debt of that country should also encourage us to be more vigilant, because there would be a very serious risk from the point of view of the management of the euro area if the rating agencies were to take a leading role in the assessment of the debts of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report contains a number of interesting and welcome recommendations. i would like to thank the rapporteur for that. so instead of calling for only a reduction in public expenditure, it is a question of freeing up resources for what are supposedly necessary public investments in education, training, infrastructure and research. the european parliament, too, instead of recommending wage moderation, admits - that is the term used - that in the long term real wages and productivity should grow at the same rate. i thank the rapporteur for these efforts at moderation and conciliation. but the subject of this debate is the economic state of the euro area. i believe that despite the recent and even unexpected improvement in growth indicators, the economic situation remains fragile and unsatisfactory. the commission's macroeconomic policy affects the daily lives of millions of european citizens whose purchasing power is threatened by stagnating wages and rising living costs and worsening working conditions. social protection is also weakening. the practical response of the commission and the central bank is always the same: to combat inflation by means of budgetary austerity and wage moderation, on the one hand, and to increase competition in the market for services, capital, products and labour, on the other. perhaps it is time to take stock of the results of this policy and ask whether the dismantling of public services, the deregulation of the labour market, the reduction of public spending, are really sustainable engines of growth in the euro area and in the european union. unfortunately, no pause for thought is on the agenda. in two days' time we shall have to decide on a directive on services which has been improved but which is still faithful to the deregulatory inspiration of fritz bolkestein. in a few months' time, a directive proposing the end of the public postal service will be on the agenda. as for energy, despite the chronic instability of oil-producing areas, despite the gas blackmail of a neighbouring country, despite global warming, despite widespread power cuts in half of europe, nothing is done, the answer is still the same: complete the liberalised and deregulated internal energy market in europe. the economic report of the euro area is perhaps a little better this year; i think that the social and political record of the commission is still as bad as it was.
although the report by my distinguished colleague, mr josé manuel garcia-margallo y marfil, contains some very interesting analyses and proposals on the euro area, i regret that it does not raise the question of the evolution of the euro from a technical currency to a political instrument for growth and employment. the monetary policy of the european central bank (ecb) appears to be the opposite of reality: normally the exchange rate should be strong when economic growth is strong and should depreciate when growth is weak. in europe, however, the opposite has been happening since the early 1990s. while member states are reforming, the pursuit of zero inflation through inappropriate monetary policy is leading europe to record poor economic growth performance. if this continues, as the price of raw materials and energy soars across the planet, we will have zero inflation and zero growth with manufacturers eventually settling in the dollar zone. it is as if the ecb were ignorant of economic policy, while its american counterpart is only concerned with economic policy.
the rapporteur. mr commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as rapporteur, let me thank the non-attached rapporteurs from the various groups and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for their willingness to support a collective effort to improve the commission's proposal. as you said, commissioner, the seas and oceans of our planet are in a worrying state: a level of alert has been reached. in fact, a recent study published in science warned of the danger of fish stocks in our seas and oceans being depleted. the quality of the marine ecosystem plays a fundamental role in the overall environment of the planet and, in particular, a very important regulatory role in the climate. our seas also play a crucial role in the life of the entire planet. as you have said, they play a major economic role: fishing, transport, tourism, sources of raw materials and, finally, activities along the coast. but our seas and oceans are under increasing pressure and worrying pollution. first of all, let us remember this figure: 80% of marine pollution comes from land and as you said, commissioner, it is obvious that there is a direct link between the water framework directive and the directive you have presented and which our parliament wishes to improve. but if pollution comes from the land through water, it also comes through the atmosphere. recent studies show a large interaction between atmospheric movements, air pollution and the sea and oceans, so that urbanization and human activities occurring far from the coast can have a direct impact on water quality. pollution is also generated by activities related to the exploitation of the oceans and seas, such as transport and aquaculture. the waste from fishing and oil activities reached, in some sectors, quite excessive and dangerous levels a few years ago. we are also at a time when new threats are emerging which the directive must anticipate. in particular, we are seeing a proliferation of desalination projects for seawater. it is necessary to ensure that these activities do not lead to a deterioration in the quality of water in the future. there is a great deal of international debate about carbon dioxide storage. so you see, the threats are very real. the directive has tried to put in place an architecture which will finally enable us to have a strategy that goes beyond the international conventions, the results of which have so far, for the most part, not lived up to expectations. our directive is based on the first point: the restoration of the good ecological condition of the seas. parliament wants, commissioner, that the obligation to deliver results should be much more present, much stronger than the text as it stands now. secondly, our parliament wants the good ecological status of the seas and oceans to be defined much more precisely so that it is not a wishful thinking and that we come as close as possible to what can be done to restore life and balance to the ecosystem. thirdly, our parliament wants the deadlines to be shorter and in any case to strike a good balance between the deadlines, the level of environmental requirements and the obligation to deliver results. finally, we are in favour of the creation of marine protected areas, because the us and new zealand experiences have shown that these protected areas - and in some cases, these genuine marine reserves - are capable of restoring fish stocks. finally, we want territorial cohesion to be strengthened by good work at the level of the marine and sub-marine regions, without however relieving the member states of their responsibilities in relation to the objectives set by the management plans and the plans for measures to restore good ecological status. we are anxious to include the black sea in the document. we want to sound the alarm about the arctic: we must think about the future of this part of the world which is directly linked to us and whose evolution has considerable implications for the future of the planet, which may be threatened. we want the outermost regions of the union, which are not yet included in the document, to be gradually included in a suitable strategy. i will end with the democratic issues. we see this every day: whether it is fishing or transport, sea users, environmentalists, scientists feel the need to confront their points of view so that the decisions that will be taken are based on a shared diagnosis and a rational analysis of the problems. that is the spirit of the amendments we have tabled.
on behalf of the alde group. thank you for your communication. it is imperative that a thorough and rigorous investigation be carried out into the causes of the power cuts which have affected many countries of the european union. is this a failure of information? what, for not following procedure? a network failure? a lack of investment? was it a fault in the maintenance of the network or a commercial cause? some european citizens see this failure as a negative consequence of energy liberalisation, others see it as a failure of interconnections and the transeuropean energy network. as you have pointed out, the management of this blackout can also be seen as a demonstration of the solidarity of the member states with germany, which is without electricity, and as the discharge procedures were put in place to avoid the much more serious consequences of a european blackout. if the failure is of a commercial nature, the regulators of the member states should jointly define and review the applicable rules to better control the electricity market. if the failure is of a technical nature or due to a procedural defect, then better coordination is needed between the energy transmission system operators, as they are the operational links of smooth and secure energy exchanges. the creation of a european energy networks centre would make it possible to establish a european network code to harmonise the standards and procedures of the member states' networks. in conclusion, i welcome the fact that the commission has launched this inquiry and i hope, let me stress, that it will communicate the results in full transparency so that we can make progress in avoiding any such incidents.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr jan mulder, for his constant work, not only on budgetary questions in general but also on questions concerning the financing of agricultural and rural policies. the fact that i, as the permanent rapporteur on the structural funds in my committee, have asked to speak in this debate on the modification of the ceilings for development support from the eafrd is to express two things. firstly, it is a 'democratic' regret, but also a 'strategic' wish. i very much regret that the european parliament is being forced to change ceilings which it has already adopted, in order to bring them into line with decisions taken by the council. in addition, my 'strategic' wish is to reiterate our commitment to the fundamental principles of rural development policy, primarily because they give europe a sense of readability. i would like us to remain very cautious in the face of the temptation to generalize compulsory cofinancing which could lead in the long run to a renationalization of expenditure under the first pillar. such a decision should not be the subject of a policy of "water on the water" but should be considered as an important issue to be subjected to a clear and democratic debate. as for the necessary - and perhaps justified - christmas 'gifts' given in portugal, i regret that there is no real strategy on this subject and i ask that we define one and that it be the result of a substantive debate.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows about the 2003 reform of the cap, which provided for the freezing of the first pillar and the strengthening of the second, namely rural development. the agreement on the new financial perspective - which i voted against - runs counter to both of these commitments. the rural development envelope has lost €20 billion compared to the commission's proposal, which is 35% less for the 15 former member states than in the current period. the proposal for voluntary additional modulation of up to 20% of the amounts from the first to the second pillar, which does not meet any of the criteria applicable to rural development policy, is not acceptable. i recognize that the european commission has tried in its proposal for a regulation to frame this tool, but i share the rapporteur's concerns and support his proposal for rejection: there is indeed too much risk of distortion of competition if some states choose to take 20% of direct aid and not others. it is unacceptable that this voluntary modulation is not subject to the same rules as those normally applied to rural development, and the risk of renationalisation of the cap is too great. on the other hand, the financing needs of rural development policy are real and i fear that the desertification of our rural areas will increase. i therefore ask the commission to propose, instead of voluntary modulation, an identical increase in the compulsory rate of modulation in all member states. i would also like to point out that the compulsory modulation applies for the time being as soon as a holding receives more than eur 5 000 of agricultural aid per year. the vast majority of farms are affected. in order to have a real tool for redistributing aid, other criteria should also be taken into account, such as the size of the holding, its dependence on aid, the labour employed, the standard gross margin, etc. in addition, in order to ensure a fair distribution of agricultural aid, a ceiling on direct aid should be envisaged.
in its annual report, the court of auditors gives a positive statement of assurance on the 2005 accounts of the european union and congratulates the commission on the implementation of the new accounting system for the financial year. however, as regards the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions concerning the receipts received and the payments made, the court notes that appropriate risk management is still not guaranteed in important areas of expenditure. most of these errors are the result of ignorance of the applicable rules, ineligible expenditure or attempted fraud by the final beneficiaries (farmers, local authorities or project managers). who is to blame? firstly, the commission, which is directly responsible for implementing the european budget under the treaties. it must improve the quality of internal control, and procedures must be simplified to avoid non-compliance with the eligibility criteria, double-charging or overestimation of costs. finally, the states must also assume their responsibilities, since 76% of the funds are spent by national or local administrations. the commitment of the member states to provide annual reports on how the european union funds they manage are spent seems to me to be paramount.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i would like to thank the speakers who all expressed the european parliament's interest in this sesar project, which will have a very beneficial impact on air transport, but also on environmental quality and energy savings. i would like to say to mr bradbourn that we have chosen the legal basis which seems to us to be the most appropriate for the purpose of this regulation. the aim is to set up a joint venture to manage a research and technological development programme. this legal basis is article 171 of the treaty, as mr fernandez has just said, and it has been confirmed by parliament's committee on legal affairs and by the commission. i want to emphasize the fact that, as mr rash said, we have here a good example of a public-private partnership (ppp) with, of course, the presence of eurocontrol, which you have stressed, but also the presence of the whole air transport industry - which will obviously be the first beneficiary, and which is very interested in the development of sesar. of course, even if this is a procedure which involves consultation with parliament and not codecision, mr president, i will of course try to keep parliament informed regularly and in a very transparent way, because, as the rapporteur, mrs erna hennicot-schoepges, has pointed out, it is obvious that we must avoid any delay in the programmes concerned. i would like to add this, and i would like to thank parliament very much for its valuable support in carrying out this project, which, i repeat, should provide the european union with the best possible air navigation system.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda calls for debate on the report by mrs maría sornosa martínez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 76/769/eec on the limitation of the placing on the market of certain measuring devices containing mercury (com (2006) 0069 - c6-0064/2006 - 2006/0018 (cod)) (a6-0287/2006).
the commission has informed me that it does not wish to speak again. the debate is therefore closed. the vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr purvis, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on mortgage lending in the european union (2006/2102 (ini)) (a6-0370/2006).
member of the commission. mr president, we are completing the consultation process launched by the green paper. creating cross-border opportunities for lenders and borrowers raises important, but also very difficult, policy questions. there is no easy or quick fix. over the next couple of weeks, i will be discussing with my services the options available for moving forward. parliament’s balanced report is an important contribution to this. i thank mr purvis and mr medina ortega.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
the committee on agriculture proposes that parliament reject the proposal for a regulation. (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution)
i have no doubt that the commissioner will be pleased to hear this. the report is therefore referred back to the committee responsible pending the commission's proposals.
we now adjourn the votes to allow the formal sitting to commence.
with the agreement of the rapporteur, the greens are prepared to withdraw amendment no 7, provided that an oral amendment is added at the end of amendment no 13. the aim is to clarify the responsibilities of each country in the field of exchange rate policy. i read the text of the oral amendment in english: 'without prejudice to their respective powers and responsibilities in order to cope with international disequilibrium'.
we have now finished with the votes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my distinguished colleague, marie-hélène descamps, on the proposal for a european council decision on the agreement between the european union and canada establishing a framework for cooperation in the fields of higher education, training and youth. this report is in line with a long tradition of cooperation and it is only logical that we should have special links through our young people in the european union and canada, who are the sons of europe.
in writing. these agreements aim to strengthen our cooperation in the fields of higher education and training with canada and the united states. they renew, for a period of eight years from 2006 to 2013 , the cooperation programmes previously concluded with the european union in 1995 and 2000. the cooperation agreement negotiated with canada aims to strengthen and broaden the scope of the previous agreement by providing a new framework for cooperation in the field of youth. the new agreement with the united states, which partially renews the previous programme, introduces innovative programmes leading to transatlantic degrees. it aims to promote student and teacher exchanges, to strengthen the schuman-fulbright programme and to encourage closer institutional collaboration in higher education. both of these covenants have proved useful in the past. their implementation should improve the openness and competitiveness of our higher education systems for the future, while promoting mutual understanding and bringing our peoples closer together. i am glad that our parliament has voted in favour of their conclusion, thus strengthening the relations between our two continents.
in writing. i welcome the adoption at first reading of the report by mrs lienemann on the marine environment strategy directive, a key directive which forms part of the continuity of the water framework directive (wfd). i would like to express my scepticism, however, about the feasibility of the timetable which has just been adopted. the knowledge of the marine environment is not yet sufficient to make an effective assessment of the environmental situation of european seas in a short time. the preparation/conditioning phase is always difficult and takes longer than expected. in addition, the marine environment has a particularly high inertia. i therefore believe that the timetable proposed by the commission is already ambitious enough.
in writing. at a time when the union is facing a resurgence of national selfishness, the commission's proposal to introduce optional modulation of direct payments under the cap marks a new stage in the breakdown of community solidarity. in the face of this danger, parliament had to react and make its voice heard, in order to reaffirm the commitment of the representatives of the peoples of europe to defending the 'common' character of the union's public policies, of which the cap is the most striking symbol and the most successful achievement. i therefore voted in favour of the goeppel report which was tabled today in plenary, and in particular the explicit request that the european commission's proposal be rejected outright. this position, which expresses the opinion of the majority of members present today, reflects the clear and unambiguous will of the european parliament not to betray its vision of the future of europe, and not to make the cap a variable of adjustment designed to make up for the weaknesses of a european budget which is hampered by the lack of ambition of the member states of the union. it calls for the maintenance of a system of aid to producers, based on the principle of equity, which alone can guarantee the survival of a viable, competitive and united european agriculture in the future.
in writing. i did not vote in favour of my excellent colleague josé manuel garcia-margallo's report on the euro area in 2006 by abstaining because, although it contains some very interesting elements, i regret that it does not raise the question of the evolution of the euro from a technical currency to a political tool for growth and employment. the monetary policy of the european central bank (ecb) appears to be the opposite of reality: normally the exchange rate should be strong when economic growth is strong and should depreciate when growth is weak. in europe, however, the opposite has been happening since the early 1990s. while member states are reforming, the pursuit of zero inflation through inappropriate monetary policy is leading europe to record poor economic growth performance. if this continues, as the price of raw materials and energy soars across the planet, we will have zero inflation and zero growth with manufacturers eventually settling in the dollar zone. it is as if the ecb were ignorant of economic policy, while its american counterpart is only concerned with economic policy.
in writing. twenty-five national laws on mortgage lending and soon twenty-seven that run counter to a common european approach. this green paper proposed by the european commission will make it possible to carry out adequate studies on this issue and to take the right options. any community measure concerning the european mortgage credit market must first and foremost benefit the citizens directly, and consumers often face too many legal and economic obstacles. in voting in favour of mr john purvis' report, i have chosen to make the mortgage market accessible to a wider range of potential borrowers. i had personally insisted in the committee on the internal market that its rapporteur, mr medina ortega, take account of borrowers with a low and precarious credit profile, workers with fixed-term contracts and people making their first purchase.
president of the commission. mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, when the lights went out across europe last week, our interdependence as europeans was laid bare for all to see. in a flash, greater integration ceased to be some abstract ideal. for millions of our citizens, it became a necessity. the incident – dare i say it – was illuminating. the argument for more europe has not so much been won, as rendered superfluous. it is now clear to everyone that we face more shared challenges than ever before – thanks in part to the forces unleashed by globalisation. and shared challenges demand shared solutions, whether they relate to growth and jobs in an increasingly competitive world, climate change, energy security or, indeed, international terrorism. we can be proud of our response so far to this rapidly changing landscape. first, we renewed the lisbon agenda and placed the emphasis squarely on growth and jobs. as a result, it was possible to restore confidence in the stability and growth pact, putting it on a more realistic and workable footing. europe’s leaders agreed to put globalisation at the centre of its policy agenda, and the commission has been busy equipping the european union with the tools it needs, and using those tools, on a whole range of concerns that european citizens share. to boost growth and jobs, the european institutions have continued work to unleash the full potential of the single market. at the same time, we have renewed our commitment to social solidarity, including the setting-up of the globalisation adjustment fund, a useful shock absorber for the powerful motor of globalisation. to ensure that europe thrives in the knowledge economies of tomorrow, innovation became a central part of our economic and social strategies and today innovation is at the core of the concerns of european leaders. the establishment of the european institute of technology will help reverse the fragmentation of research, education and innovation efforts, which has stunted progress so far. the document ‘europe in the world’ tackles the need to develop a global voice which matches our economic weight in the world. this will also reinforce our efforts in areas where we have already exerted leadership, notably in the debate on a future international climate change regime. and we have successfully steered romania and bulgaria towards european union membership. we have proposed the two new commissioners and allocated the portfolios. one will be responsible for consumer affairs and the other for multilingualism, to protect and to reinforce european cultural pluralism and diversity. intercultural aspects are more and more important in the europe of today. i am very proud that this further step – romania and bulgaria joining the union – has taken place and that my commission has made an important contribution to it. i think we should all be very proud of what has been achieved through successive enlargements. let there be no doubt: in centuries to come, historians will say that enlargement was the greatest instrument for peace, prosperity and stability of our generation. (applause)on that note, i would like to say it is more than time we stopped talking about ‘old’ and ‘new’ member states. more than ever before, we are now one europe, united in all our diversity, and that is something we should celebrate. we have also laid the groundwork in many other areas that concern us all – sustainable development, maritime policy, and energy efficiency, to name just a few. we still have much to achieve by the end of this year. i hope that the european council will approve the enlargement package we adopted last week. we need to move forward on immigration and innovation policy and we still have important proposals to adopt in areas like labour law, copyright levies, neighbourhood policy, co2 emissions from cars and emissions trading. so the first years of this commission, working in a spirit of partnership with this parliament, have meant renewing, reorienting and re-tooling, to create a europe of results, a europe fit to face the shared challenges of the 21st century. these efforts are already bearing fruit: growth has been revised upwards to its highest level in six years; unemployment has dropped to its lowest level since we started collecting eu25 data in 1998. now 2007 – the year we celebrate 50 years of european construction – will mark a turning point. it will mark the moment when a europe of 27, after careful preparation, throws the full weight of the union’s re-tuned machinery behind the delivery of solutions to our citizens’ shared concerns. it will mark the moment when a new budgetary framework unlocks modernised financing programmes, which move towards europe’s new agenda. so this is the context for our 2007 work programme. it is a new type of programme that has greatly benefited from input from this parliament, the council and the other institutions: valuable input that will continue with this debate and the resolution you adopt. this work programme addresses many of parliament’s concerns that have been conveyed to me and to the commission. this new work programme is more political. it is focused on a smaller list of 21 strategic initiatives. the commission is committed to delivering all of these next year, and they will not be subject to a mid-term review. a second list of priority initiatives fills out our work in other important areas. in addition, we have responded to calls from parliament to include a list of simplification measures and withdrawals of legislative proposals in the work programme. this underlines the message that better regulation is now an integral part of the commission’s day-to-day tasks. today, in the college meeting, we adopted our strategic review of better regulation that takes stock of progress to date and sets out an ambitious programme of new initiatives. this includes new action in the following areas: impact assessment, where we will establish an impact assessment board; simplification, where we will add important new initiatives to our rolling programme; and administrative burdens, where we will suggest a target to the spring european council next year to cut such burdens at european union and member state levels by 25% by 2012. in parallel, we will present an action plan in two months’ time defining priority areas for action. we are also continuing to screen, and in a number of cases withdraw, pending proposals. we are recommending that future commissions do the same at the beginning of their mandates as an expression of the changed political composition of a new commission, so showing the importance of political legitimacy and political leadership. this review responds to a very large extent to the priorities of the european parliament, as expressed in several reports earlier this year. i hope you will give your full endorsement to this package, including to its practical implementation. so what does the 2007 work programme feature? let me highlight some key areas, those i believe to be politically very sensitive. first, energy. building on our green paper and measures for greater energy efficiency earlier this year, we will present the first ever strategic energy review for europe. this will include the building blocks for an integrated european union energy policy, for example measures to complete the internal market for electricity and gas; to accelerate take-up of new low-carbon technologies; and to diversify and secure supplies both within and outside europe. the goal is a common european energy policy that will ensure our security of supply, while maintaining europe’s competitiveness and safeguarding our environmental objectives. closely linked to this – in fact i could say they are two parts of the same agenda – will be action on climate change. we will put forward options for a european union climate change policy and perspectives for international cooperation post-kyoto. a revision of the european union emissions trading scheme will provide greater stability for investments and accelerate the momentum to cut greenhouse gases. europe’s demographic squeeze calls for greater efforts to attract economic migrants, particularly those who are skilled. a european regime for labour immigration will give such migrants a secure legal status, while clarifying their obligations and their rights. in order to reduce illegal immigration and exploitation of workers, this will be coupled with a clampdown on unscrupulous employers of third-country nationals who enter europe illegally. european public policy can have a fundamental impact on the way people live their lives. to be effective, it must be properly attuned to the needs of modern society. the commission will undertake a fundamental stocktaking of european society, which will serve as a basis for european policy-making into the next decade. as i have said several times, europe is more than a market. europe without the concept of solidarity is not really a european union. (applause) our core business, in terms of our competences under the treaties, will not be forgotten either. the commission will continue to defend, extend and modernise the single market. a key target for 2007 will be the defence industries and markets, which have been fragmented for far too long. we will also set out the way forward on services of general interest in the coming weeks. a final area of concern to all our citizens is security. the commission will bring forward additional measures to combat terrorism, with a particular focus on fighting terrorist propaganda and the sharing of expertise – on explosives for example – for terrorist purposes. the year 2007 will also mark a turning point in our search for an institutional settlement. the berlin declaration, marking the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome, will allow europe’s leaders to renew their commitment to an enlarged, global and competitive europe, where solidarity is a central principle. i believe it should be a short, sharp political declaration, affirming what unites us and – above all – making clear where we want to go and what we want europe to be for the next 50 years. following my initial proposal, i am happy to see that everything is now moving in the direction of having a joint statement, a statement by the member states, the european commission and the european parliament, thus showing that the commitment to the european union is today a shared commitment of the main political institutions of our union. i am pleased to see that the search for an institutional settlement is also a priority for the german presidency. so i am confident that the elements are in place for an important breakthrough. this is important, because europe needs an institutional settlement. there are indeed serious costs derived from not having a constitutional treaty. we need the constitutional treaty because, as a european union, we need to be more effective in our decision-making, more coherent in our external action and more transparent and democratic in our working. make no mistake: the commission will be an active player in the search for solutions here. when this commission took office, there was unfinished business to deal with and to reform. with the help of this parliament and the council, these things have been dealt with, put behind us, or turned around: we now have the financial perspectives; we now have the revised stability and growth pact. in fact i hope tomorrow we can say we will have the revised services directive, to be approved by a parliamentary vote. that shows that we are solving some of the planning problems and proposals. it has been hard work, but it is already bearing fruit. the 2007 work programme builds on these new foundations. so we can conclude the work on decisions that were already in the pipeline but also launch new, very important, projects for the work of europe, such as energy policy. for the first time we have the chance to have a real common approach to energy, to be more ambitious in the fight against climate change, to look at the entire field of justice and at the fight against illegal migration. this is a new frontier for europe and we need to take a european approach. so we see that europe is on the move. there are problems. we know the problems that exist, but there are great possibilities and there is, more than ever, the need for a strong europe. so as we celebrate europe’s 50th anniversary next year, we can do so with much greater confidence. once again, i believe europe will be able to show its relevance by reinventing itself for the 21st century. to show our commitment to practical results and to working hard for a stronger european union, this can be a fitting birthday present for the 50th anniversary of europe, a birthday present for europe and all its citizens. (applause)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the european commission for presenting today a much more political programme and for the first time fully integrating simplification by presenting a reduced number of priority areas in its legislative and work programme for 2007. this will be useful to us in what is going to be a decisive year for the european union, as it will be celebrating the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome. it will be necessary to give new impetus to the construction of europe by re-establishing the link with our fellow citizens. you are presenting a series of 21 strategic initiatives - perhaps too many for some - which will be at the heart of the commission's action in 2007, as well as a series of priority initiatives which will have to be adopted over the next 12 to 18 months. this legitimate requirement for flexibility seems to have two possible drawbacks, at least for our group. on the one hand, the parallel definition of two lists of priorities inevitably creates some confusion as to the hierarchy between the types of objectives and the links between the two categories. in addition, the 18-month programming period is likely to slow down the commission's work; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also important to be aware that many of the ambitious objectives announced by the european commission must take account of the budgetary provisions in force. nor should we be creating unnecessary structures all the time. i am thinking, for example, of the creation of new agencies to solve certain problems. it seems to me that when we cannot find a solution to a problem, we decide to set up an agency. however, some of them continue to demonstrate their effectiveness, such as the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. but before we want to create other structures, let us first take stock of the existing structures, otherwise you may one day propose to us that we create a new agency to allocate and control the agencies in each member state. do we really have to have 27 agencies because we will have 27 member states? the costs must be reasonable and must be able to produce what our anglo-saxon friends call a satisfactory value for money, that is to say a good cost-benefit ratio. the commission's work programme also stresses the importance of impact studies and renews its intention to create a new entity responsible for supporting and quality assurance of impact studies. parliament will be vigilant about these impact studies and insists on the necessary objectivity so that they are carried out in the greatest transparency. to improve european competitiveness, we will ensure that all forms of bureaucracy are reduced and all superfluous legislation is abolished. in this area, it is important to involve the european parliament more and to improve the ex post evaluation of the measures adopted. for this reason, mr president, our group believes that the number of strategic initiatives should be reduced to avoid the catalogue's deadlock; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our group nevertheless welcomes the six priority areas defined by your commission for 2007. i shall not go into the list of these priority areas, but i would like to stress certain points, including the energy question. the increasing dependence of the european union on energy is something that must now be taken into account, and this is all the more true since the breakdown we experienced last week. the union will have to look for other ways of reducing the negative effects of energy dependence. our group believes that energy efficiency, increased use of renewable energy and a structured dialogue with the producing and consuming countries will help to achieve this objective. some studies indicate that the european union could create one million direct and indirect jobs in the energy efficiency sector. thus, the pursuit of greater efficiency would not only save the eu economy considerable sums but could also make a major contribution to competitiveness and employment, the key objectives of the lisbon agenda. we also ask the commission to continue to play a leading role in the fight against global warming, which has consequences not only on the strictly environmental level but also on the economic and social level. the european union will have to do its utmost to impose the use of certain products which are more environmentally friendly. in addition, 2007 will be the year of an important new stage in the historic process of enlargement of the european union, since our bulgarian and romanian friends will join us and you yourself, mr president, have just told us that this enlargement is the most important instrument of peace in the last fifty years. it is therefore essential that these priority areas are as much a challenge as they are a challenge, but also that there is more communication with all european citizens. our group also welcomes the commission's initiative to make communication one of its strategic objectives. in conclusion, mr president, i would say that, now that we are halfway through the mandate, we almost feel like saying: let's stop talking about programmes, our fellow citizens hate litanies of promises. action, more action, always action, that's the motto. mr president, we are ready to support you in this.
madam president, commissioner, you will tell the president of the commission that if his words are full of ambition, we expect action and that in this respect we need, if we want to regain the confidence of our fellow citizens, 'better regulation', which does not necessarily mean 'less regulation' and the ability to 'deliver' as you say in english. in the field of the ecology-energy partnership, which the commission is calling for and which this parliament will certainly support, we must anticipate what the means of doing so will be, and the means of doing so are not only the capacity in terms of the powers that the constitution has said we have, but also the capacity in budgetary terms, the capacity in terms of taxation. the commission must therefore start work on the revision of the financial perspective now so that this year is not just a year of fair returns but an ambition that is up to the challenges of the 21st century and the european union. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has only one of the 21 strategic initiatives within its sphere of competence: the idea of a communication, and one more, on social services of general interest. not a word about the proposal that you have withdrawn from the commission's agenda, which parliament unanimously condemned: i am talking about the withdrawal of the mutual fund proposal. ask the president where the initiative is in this area, this parliament is waiting for a proposal. in the area of financial markets, we are in the midst of an interinstitutional dialogue. we asked for specific, concrete things on micro-credit, alternative funds and credit rating agencies: the commission's proposals contain nothing on these subjects. a final word to ask you to be on the watch in the field of accounting, and to do so in order to enable the european union to live up to the ambitions which we must have.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, there is a time for words and a time for deeds. i think that a number of colleagues who have spoken since the beginning of this afternoon have made it clear, on various subjects, that the european commission absolutely needs to act. we want more innovation, we want more security, we want more solidarity, we want more competitiveness and i am sorry to see that in the text presented to us by the commission there are only a few lines devoted to what is ultimately the first budget line of the european union, since the financial perspectives for 2007-13 allocate 308 billion for the structural funds. if we want to provide concrete answers for our fellow citizens and for ourselves, together with the member states and the various actors, we intend to use the tools offered by the financial measures included in the structural funds, with 308 billion, i repeat. so what is the problem for 2007? will we, with the billions at our disposal, provide our fellow citizens with concrete answers in the framework of the regulations we adopted here in july, or will we be bogged down in the administrative circuits, in the various and multiple problems, and arrive at 31 december 2007 without having made much progress? my colleagues on the committee on regional development and i have discussed these matters with mrs hübner. we regret that the commission document today does not give much thought to how the commission intends to achieve its objectives. we want to see that in the context of these objectives, particular account is taken of the situation of the new member states, which will receive money but which must also be able to use it properly. we have made proposals, mrs hübner knows that. we are waiting for concrete answers to help these countries to use these funds properly. there is another point which i would of course not like to forget as president of the urban intergroup: how cities should actually play a driving role in this europe which needs to be more competitive and more innovative. we are also waiting for further action from the commission. finally, on behalf of my colleague chris davies, who cannot speak because he is attending another meeting, i would like to say to you, commissioners, that on behalf of our group - alde - we are partially satisfied with the proposals on the environment, but that, as with the previous point on the structural funds, we are waiting for implementation, we are waiting for acts. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we have nothing against you for the information you have given us, we are simply waiting for the results.
the legislative programme as it is presented to us today is merely a quiet continuation of those of previous years. however, it is remarkable that the commission does not say a word about two major reforms on which it is working today, namely the revision of the financial perspective and the mid-term review of the cap. these are very difficult political points, but we cannot ignore them. the fact that the constitutional debate, the budget debate and the agricultural debate will be held at the same time in 2007 requires a real preparation of the institutions. as for the reduction in administrative costs developed by the commission, it is generally based on a very reductive and accounting view of european policies, a short-term view, which is being undermined by our political priorities. we should rather reflect on the balance between the resources, particularly in terms of staff, provided to the commission and the implementation of the policies we are seeking to promote. the solutions proposed by the commission in its citizens' initiative are based on the idea of a voluntary political programme geared to the expectations and needs of europeans. unfortunately, i do not see any concrete or original proposals in this document to achieve these aims. the same applies to the lisbon strategy, which you tell us has been revived. i don't share your optimism. finally, do not forget that every year, in fact, the overall budget transfer contradicts the document you are presenting to us today and distorts the political will shown and voted for by our parliament. is it not true that this document today is nothing more than words and pious vows?
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, europe has so far only developed measures to combat illegal immigration. it has tried to build up the image of a fortress europe. the commission will make two key proposals on labour immigration and immigration of highly skilled workers. we clearly reject undeclared and exploited workers. it is therefore necessary to consider legal immigration for people seeking employment. the simple consultation of the european parliament is foreseen, but we want to obtain commitments, so that we can be fully involved and heard in the discussion of these two crucial directives. and we welcome your proposal to establish minimum sanctions against employers who exploit immigrants by making them work "underground". my group recently traveled to the puglia region of italy, where hundreds of immigrants were enslaved on farms. we all know that this is not just an italian problem. the enslavement of thousands of people is a problem throughout the european union. we therefore call for common provisions to protect the rights of immigrants in employment, for uniform sanctions against the exploitation of undeclared work and for support for employers who regularize the situation of the workers they employ. thank you.
president of the council. mr president, if the questioner refers to the development of the procedures of the human rights council, as i have just said, this is the main subject of the third session and the union is very actively involved in these preparations. the council has already dealt with a number of issues which were eu initiatives, but all these initiatives taken during the second session were postponed until the beginning of the november-december session, and preparations are now under way.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council regularly reviews the situation in the middle east, most recently at its meetings on 17 october and 13 november. the council adopted conclusions in this context. they clarified the council's position on various issues. the council also expressed its concerns about israel and the areas in which it would like israel to take different action. the council will raise these issues in its regular meetings with israel in the framework of the eu-israel association agreement. the last such opportunity was at the eu-israel association council on 13 june 2006. the meeting of the human rights working group on 7 june 2006 provided an opportunity for a more in-depth discussion of the eu's special interests in israel. the second meeting of the political dialogue and cooperation subcommittee on 9 november also dealt extensively with these issues.
president of the council. the situation in gaza and the middle east was discussed yesterday at the last general affairs and external relations meeting, which drew conclusions on the situation. the union has been particularly concerned about the poor humanitarian situation in gaza. the union has not only provided its own humanitarian support but has also regularly raised with israel, in various contacts, the measures needed to improve the humanitarian situation.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has been working continuously to ensure that the union remains committed to the convergence of the western balkan countries with europe. in the salzburg declaration of march 2006, it reaffirmed its full support for the action plan presented at the thessaloniki summit in 2003 and for the progress of the stability and association process. one of the major challenges of this period has been to ensure support for the ongoing negotiations on the status of kosovo, led by un special envoy martti ahtisaari. the negotiations also covered the future role and presence of the eu, particularly in the areas of police, rule of law and the economy. following the montenegrin referendum and the declaration of independence of the republic of montenegro, the european union and its member states agreed to develop their relations with montenegro as a sovereign and independent state and called on both serbia and montenegro to continue a direct and constructive dialogue on their future relations. the council welcomed the peaceful and smooth conduct of the elections in the republic of montenegro and the resumption of negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement. the council stressed that the pace and completion of the negotiations would depend in particular on progress by montenegro in implementing the necessary reforms. work continued to conclude negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement with bosnia and herzegovina. following the elections held at the beginning of october, the council stressed the need for the newly elected political institutions to speed up the implementation of all the reforms required for the conclusion of the agreement. the council also welcomed the report by mr solana and mr rehn on the strengthening of the eu's presence in bosnia and herzegovina. the purpose of strengthening the presence is to prepare and implement the transition from the current arrangement to greater local responsibility. negotiations with serbia will resume as soon as it is found to be fully cooperating with the icty. the council reiterated that a peaceful and prosperous serbia, fully integrated into the european nations, was of paramount importance for the stability of the whole region. in line with the commitments made at the thessaloniki summit in 2003 and the salzburg summit in 2006, the council has sought to make eu convergence more tangible, including through increased people-to-people contacts through visa facilitation agreements with all western balkan countries. the negotiating mandates for visa facilitation agreements with all western balkan countries were approved yesterday by the general affairs and external relations council. negotiating powers were also approved for readmission agreements with bosnia and herzegovina, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia. albania already has a readmission agreement with the eu. negotiations with all the countries of the western balkans will be opened in brussels on the last day of november. the aim is to conclude the negotiations as soon as possible. the council continued to support regional cooperation and local responsibility in the various regional fora, not least the renewal and extension of the central european free trade agreement to all the balkan states. on 9 november, the council welcomed the initialling of the central european free trade agreement in all the countries of the balkan region, with the exception of bosnia and herzegovina and serbia. the council expects the fta to be signed as planned on 19 december during the cefta summit in bucharest.
president of the council. it must be remembered, mr president, that the work of the special representative martti ahtisaari in finding a status solution for kosovo is precisely work under the auspices of the un. the union strongly supports the actions of the ahtisaari and hopes that a solution to the status issue will be found. it is essential to maintain stability in the region and to create the conditions for long-term development. the european union is preparing to extend its presence and support to kosovo once the status settlement has been reached. as regards the latter question, i refer to my original reply to the analysis of the fta. the draft free trade agreement is well under way and we expect it to be signed in december.
president of the council. mr president, these issues raised by the rapporteur, the fight against organised crime and the common foreign and security policy, are of course essential areas of cooperation within the european union. it is clear that when the stability and association process or even the accession negotiation process is under way or is beginning, at the latest at that stage, there must also be a strong commitment to these areas of cooperation. when the questioner asks how strongly the authorities in these western balkan countries are committed to this, it must be said that there are certainly differences of opinion between countries in this area as well.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the community's energy policy is based on three pillars: security of supply, competitiveness and environmental sustainability. energy efficiency contributes to the achievement of these three main objectives of community energy policy. this will be achieved, for example, by improving security of supply by reducing external dependence. it is also important to improve competitiveness in the european union by developing new energy efficiency technologies, strengthening the position of the union industry in the field of energy-efficient products and services, and reducing energy costs for businesses and public authorities. in order to achieve the targets, environmental sustainability must also be promoted by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other negative environmental impacts from the use of certain forms of energy. energy efficiency and energy saving can be seen as both a cornerstone of community energy policy and a priority objective to which the council has long been committed. this commitment is well illustrated by the legislative and other measures recently adopted or to be adopted in the council conclusions on energy efficiency and energy saving and in the presidency conclusions adopted by the european council in march and june 2006. as regards research and development, the council would draw the attention of the honourable member to the proposal for the seventh framework programme, which has been the subject of intensive discussions between the european parliament and the council. energy efficiency is one of the energy objectives to be promoted. particular attention will be paid to the coordination of energy efficiency and smart energy use aspects in the framework programme and in other community policies and programmes. as you are aware, the council has already accepted the results of the trialogue meeting on 26 october, which is aimed at reaching an agreement on the seventh framework programme at second reading. i believe that the good cooperation between the council and parliament will continue and that the seventh framework programme can be adopted by the end of this year. you are also aware of the recently adopted competitiveness and innovation framework programme 2007-13 which will be published in the official journal in the very near future. the smart energy programme, which is part of the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, has a larger budget and therefore better opportunities to implement concrete measures in the field of energy efficiency. among the legislative and other measures recently adopted or soon to be adopted, the 2005 directive of the european parliament and of the council on ecodesign requirements for energy-using products and the 2006 directive of the european parliament and of the council on energy end-use efficiency and energy services are particularly noteworthy. these two ambitious acts, together with the actions listed in the energy efficiency action plan adopted by the commission, will contribute to the realisation of the 20% energy saving potential by 2020 proposed by the commission. the council meeting on 23 november will discuss in principle the commission document energy efficiency action plan - realising the potential and adopt council conclusions on this commission document. the council's conclusions aim to provide guidance to the commission, the member states and other stakeholders on the implementation of the measures listed in the commission's action plan. the implementation of many of the actions proposed in the commission's action plan is one of the council's priorities for the coming years.
president of the council. mr president, climate change has become increasingly important not only in the european union's internal debates but also in its relations with third countries, and it was significant, for example, that climate issues were also mentioned in the declaration of the asem summit. the european council will also be discussing climate policy at the european council next spring. the international energy agency has estimated that global energy consumption would have increased by about one third over the past 30 years had measures not been taken to increase energy efficiency. it shows that energy efficiency measures have a detrimental effect on the growth of energy use and therefore their implementation is important. as regards the union, there are significant differences between member states in the extent to which energy efficiency measures have already been implemented or not.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, community development cooperation with mozambique, as with the other acp countries, is carried out through the european development fund. the commission, which is the right body to answer the question, is responsible for implementing the european development fund. however, it can be noted that mozambique is one of the largest recipients of eu development assistance in the acp countries and its contribution to the edf is also one of the largest in africa. we have received information that mozambique's budget for this year is about eur 165 million. as regards the disbursements of the european development fund, the commission is the competent body to provide information and the requester is therefore invited to contact the competent body in this respect.
president of the council. mr president, the important role of mozambique as a recipient of development aid is, of course, a good illustration of the peaceful development and successful post-conflict transition that has taken place in the country over the last 15 years. the commission is naturally responsible for any reference by the questioner to additional funding to the clinton foundation from the european development fund or the community budget. however, i believe that many member states are also supporting this type of activity in their national development cooperation, and when the honourable member referred to the example of ireland, as the finnish minister for development cooperation i can say that mozambique also plays an important role in finland's bilateral development cooperation. the joint presence of the european union, that is, the community and the member states in mozambique, is therefore relatively significant, because, as i said, the community budget already allocates €165 million to mozambique, and the national presence and contribution of the member states are certainly also very significant.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council is aware that iceland has announced that it will resume commercial whaling despite the moratorium on whaling by the international whaling commission (iwc) which has been in force since 1984. this was discussed at the environment council on 23 october under the agenda item 'other matters'. on 10 october 2002, iceland re-accepted the 1946 international convention for the regulation of whaling, but it raised a reservation with regard to the whaling moratorium. as the honourable member knows, membership of the international whaling commission is open to any country which is officially party to the 1946 convention. each member state may decide to accede to an international agreement covering matters which do not fall within the exclusive competence of the community. at present, 18 member states of the european union have acceded to the convention and are also members of the international whaling commission. the community is committed to the protection of whales as laid down in the habitats directive. the directive provides for a high level of whale protection, while prohibiting all intentional catching and killing of whales in community waters. furthermore, the importation of whale meat and other whale products into the community for mainly commercial purposes is strictly restricted by council regulation no 338 of 1997. following iceland's announcement of the resumption of commercial whaling, 15 eu member states of the international whaling commission and the european commission, together with australia, the united states and eight other like-minded countries, made an official appeal to reykjavik, urging iceland to comply with the moratorium and to end commercial whaling activities.
president of the council. mr president, the question was not really a question but rather a comment and for that i would like to thank you warmly. i would like to say, however, that the matter is currently being discussed in the international whaling commission. the next annual meeting will be held in the united states in may next year, and it is quite certain that at least the like-minded countries which have been active and negative in this matter, like the union, will want the request from iceland to be discussed at the meeting, so this will be the subject of discussion.
member of the commission. mr president, gambling services are clearly services within the scope of the treaty, and treaty principles, including those on the freedom of establishment and the freedom of services, apply to gambling. the commission has an obligation to ensure that member states’ legislation is fully compatible with the treaty. therefore the commission decided in april to ask seven member states for more information on their legislation that restricts the supply of sports betting services. the commission has responded to a number of complaints from operators in the sports betting area. having met with the authorities of all seven member states, my services are now examining the formal replies received from each. at this stage i cannot pre-empt the outcome of that examination. i should like to inform parliament that i expect that to be completed in the next few weeks. based on that examination i would put forward a proposal to the college of commissioners on how to proceed. it would then be a matter for them to decide on the next steps. in addition to the seven cases opened in april, the commission decided, on 12 october, to send formal requests for information related to the gambling sector to three other member states. complaints from operators, to which the commission is responding, relate mainly to sports betting services. that is why nine of the ten cases opened so far related to the provision of sports betting services, some of them online. however, in october the commission also enquired about national legislation in austria, which prohibits advertisements from casinos licensed and operating in other member states. we also have concerns that austrian legislation requires national casinos to protect only nationals from excessive losses, without having similar protection for foreign players. as guardian of the treaty, the commission will examine all complaints that it receives. however, at the same time i do not underestimate the sensitivities that exist in many member states on the question of gambling. member states are fully entitled to protect general interest objectives, such as the protection of consumers. however those measures must be necessary, proportionate and non-discriminatory. in particular, they must be applied to national and non-national operators in a systematic and consistent way. the commission does not seek to liberalise the market in any way, but rather to be assured that whatever measures member states have in place are fully compatible with existing eu law. member states are well aware of the case law of the european court of justice, which i expect will develop further. the commission accepted parliament’s request to exclude all gambling services from the scope of the draft services directive. it was made quite clear to me at that time that the regulation of gambling should be left to the member states. i fully agree, provided that such national legislation is compatible with the treaty. in the context of the infringement proceedings i am willing to work in close cooperation with the member states to ensure compatibility of national legislation with community requirements and allow for appropriate and effective protection to be put in place, for example to safeguard consumers and to protect minors.
before i give the floor to the next speaker, i will reply to your motion for a resolution. you are quite right, the debate was well advertised at the time you indicated. however, it was made clear on the european parliament's website in the early afternoon that the debate could start a little earlier if question time turned out to be shorter than planned, which it was. the session departments also tried to contact all the speakers. they have managed to reach all of them except you, mr harbour, but i think your presence in the house tonight shows that you have not missed much of the debate. that said, i felt i had to give you these explanations.
mr president, i shall try to do this both quickly and slowly. the debate is timely and what has just been said seems to me to be a positive development. everyone wants the european union to intervene in a different way than by means of case law alone. this question involves a whole range of businesses and services: casinos, lotteries and other gambling through traditional channels or via the internet. so this goes far beyond just online sports betting, which is what arlene maccarthy's question is about. while it is normal for these services to apply the principles of the internal market, mr commissioner, freedom must not be synonymous with the law of the jungle! for reasons of public interest, health, morality and safety, regulation and control are necessary. member states should be able to authorise and control public operators and private operators in conditions of fair competition. the importance of 'cross-border' games, however, requires that the national framework be overcome. in this respect, the decision just taken by the united states is proof that, since we cannot control those who gamble and those who make others gamble, it is better to prohibit gambling. it's better to take too many precautions than not enough. that is why, commissioner, the commission's current approach, which is based exclusively on the treaties and the court of justice, seems to me to be inadequate and dangerous. today it is clear that the compatibility of national legislation with the treaties is an insufficient concept. you must, commissioner, in collaboration with parliament, draw up secondary legislation which is capable of organising this very important sector, both politically and economically, in a sound and rational way. let this sector develop, but safely for individuals and for states!
member of the commission. there is no specific community legislation governing gambling. if and how member states wish to regulate gambling services at national, regional or local level is therefore a matter for each member state to decide for itself. but the general principles of community law and the treaty continue to apply and any national legislation must respect those principles. the diversity of national approaches can lead to legal uncertainty for service providers and their customers, especially where national legislation fails to respect community law. tonight’s debate helps to illustrate once more the diversity of opinion with regard to gambling services. i am, of course, aware of calls for a specific community regulatory framework for gambling services. there are equally strong views opposing such community intervention. in my experience, the first requirement in trying to find a solution is to have a clear understanding of the problem and of the policy options available. the commission recently published a study carried out on its behalf by the swiss institute of comparative law. the study illustrates the complexity and diversity of national regulatory approaches. should parliament believe that, over and above our efforts to ensure the application of fundamental treaty principles, more should be done to ensure legal clarity, i look forward to hearing parliament’s detailed views on what precisely the issues are that warrant community intervention and what policy options would command a sufficient degree of consensus for a meaningful solution at community level. in the absence of such a political consensus, legal certainty may ultimately only be provided by the european court of justice. i should like to add just a few more words to this debate. mr harbour put it fairly succinctly when he made the point that there was a great deal of inconsistency amongst many of the member states, against whom we are now taking some action. we shall probably be taking action against some more. if member states, their governments and their legislatures want to have very restrictive laws on gambling, etc., they may do so on public policy grounds. but they cannot do the things that mr harbour has referred to. they cannot spend millions and millions advertising gambling services for their own national operators or their own national, publicly-owned operators. they cannot allow their own national operators and bar everybody else. if member states feel, as some members of this house obviously do, that gambling is a greater scourge than alcohol addiction, tobacco addiction and all these other addictions put together, then they should ban it for everybody and allow no gambling at all in their member state. that is one option. then nobody would complain. the commission would not take action against them and no one would worry about it at all. but it is a bit hypocritical for member states to allow millions to be spent promoting gambling and at the same time allow nobody else to play the game. in all member states gambling is regulated to some extent. the point made by mrs mccarthy about international standards for online gambling is quite a good idea in itself, but first some form of consensus would be needed among the 25 member states. we can start by getting consensus in this parliament, but i do not think we will. i am certain that we will not get it in the council of ministers. i have about the same chance of getting consensus in the council of ministers and parliament as i have of winning the lottery this weekend. those would be the odds against it. so there is much to commend what mrs mccarthy says, and if there was a consensus i would like to go in that direction, but my experience tells me that it would be very difficult. if you read the executive summary in the recent study, which, if i am correct, comes to 51 pages, and save yourself reading the other couple of hundred pages, it does not come down heavily on one side or the other. (comments off-microphone from mr toubon) well, i do not think my honourable friend mr toubon has read the report, but you can see from that how complex this problem is and the many different ways it is regulated. it will show you what a gargantuan task it would be to head down that road. in my political life i have not been afraid to take on impossible causes and tilt at windmills and run into brick walls, but i think that if we did attempt some kind of harmonisation of this area, what we would end up with, if anything, would be the most illiberal piece of legislation ever to go through any house anywhere in the world, because it is not possible. i have recognised for a long time that there are great differences of opinion here, long before i came to this conclusion. i recognise that throughout europe, and even in my home country, there would be very different views about this. some people, i know, think that it is worse than drinking addiction, worse than tobacco addiction, worse than anything possible, but others do not. i know which category i fit into, but i think trying to get some harmonisation in this area is going to be a long, long process.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr bernart joan i marí, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on a new strategic framework for multilingualism (2006/2083 (ini)) (a6-0372/2006).
member of the commission. i would like to express my gratitude for this debate, which shows support for multilingualism in the institutions of europe, because it is of great importance for individual countries, but also for our community. a few important principles should characterize us at all times. languages as part of culture, not just a technical means, but a truly important bearer of heritage, as a cultural phenomenon, demand respect and knowledge. this is a very important responsibility of member states in particular, and their proactive approach to training and use is therefore very much needed. the european commission also creates space through programmes to continue to promote multilingualism, including in relation to minority or regional languages. the european lesser spoken languages office eblul was a partner and has room for other activities under the new programme. the same is true for the language research network mercator. i would just like to recall that the first secondary legislation adopted by the union in 1958 was on languages, so this was the beginning, and it is very important that, even at this stage of european integration, languages continue to play their important role, not only politically but also culturally and, of course, economically and socially. in conclusion, i am pleased to say that i was the first commissioner responsible for multilingualism as a separate policy in the entire history of the european union, and that soon, with your agreement, this department will be seen as a separate department, of course in cooperation with the others. in addition, we will have a colleague, the commissioner-designate from romania, mr leonard orban, who can further contribute not only to this policy but also to a very intensive commitment to the development of multilingualism.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
there was a time when all mankind spoke one language and used the same words. but the bible account of the tower of babel episode relates that men tried to build a tower that would reach to the heavens and make them equal with god. to thwart this plan, god multiplied languages so that humans would no longer understand one another and would be scattered over the earth. with this report on multilingualism, europe is implementing an 'anti-babel tower' project, as it intends to promote and value minority languages. to appreciate the challenge of multilingualism, we must understand its substance. indeed, cultural and linguistic diversity leads to respect for cultural identity, traditions and religions. by encouraging the construction of a european society of 'plural' knowledge, europe implicitly recognises that language learning is a crucial factor in the ability of peoples to communicate with one another. multilingualism is also an opportunity for the future and safeguarding it has become a duty for europe's citizens. in the face of globalisation, which favours monolingualism, the more linguistic diversity is recognised, the less opportunities for identity withdrawal there will be.
the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the european union's system of generalised preferences.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting the council regulation of 27 june 2005 reforming the system of preferences in force since 1971, the european union chose to simplify and strengthen its main trade instrument for supporting developing countries. three schemes are now applicable: the general system, the everything but arms system, which is a tool adapted to the specific needs of the least developed countries, and finally the gsp+. the additional preferences granted under the latter strand arise from the conviction that development can only be envisaged in close connection with the process of democratisation and respect for human rights, labour law and the environment. fifteen countries are currently benefiting from this mechanism, which provides both incentives and rewards to developing countries that are the most vulnerable and make the most effort in these areas. but for gsp+ to really contribute to better governance and greater respect for the environment, human rights and labour, it must be managed effectively, which means firstly warning the many countries that still do not respect their commitments and, above all, moving from the enchanting threats to the effective removal of the preferences granted to those who seriously and systematically violate ilo conventions and do not honour their obligations. secondly, there is a need for regular assessment of the fulfilment of commitments by each gsp+ beneficiary country. it should be particularly comprehensive with a view to renewing this instrument at the end of 2008. our credibility and the effectiveness of this instrument depend on what the jurists call the parallelism of forms. we cannot continue to grant these preferences to countries which are politically incapable of meeting these commitments. the future of this policy is at stake.
member of the commission. mr president, i shall try to save you some money by making three points. first of all the commissioner certainly agrees that we need to maintain high standards of surveillance and invigilation and we intend to do so. we have done so in the case of belarus and have submitted proposals to the council accordingly. as regards pakistan, granting privileges in trade requires us to keep within the rules that create those privileges and that is what we are doing and what we have done in respect of pakistan, but i entirely accept the honourable member’s view that we must do everything we can within those rules to give assistance to pakistan. as far as el salvador is concerned, yes, i entirely accept that having granted gsp+ status, we must now monitor, on the basis of reports of international bodies, the effective implementation of the two ilo conventions in el salvador, and it is our clear intention to do so.
i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2), six motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
member of the commission. mr president, the vote at second reading on the services directive will be a milestone in the history of the european parliament, not only because of the importance of this directive for european citizens and businesses, but also because of the leading role parliament has played in the legislative process. it is undeniable that the services directive is an essential element in our efforts to boost the european economy and unleash the potential of the internal market for services. the text which is now on the table will provide real added value to the internal market, cutting red tape, removing barriers and improving legal certainty for business and consumers. it lays solid foundations for a new internal market framework with a positive impact on the freedom of establishment and the creation of new business. this is crucial for fostering entrepreneurship and for promoting growth and jobs. service providers can be confident that they are dealing with fair and transparent authorisation regimes and swift and simple procedures. they will be able to obtain information and complete administrative formalities through points of single contact in any member state and, in addition, in electronic form. this will simplify, accelerate and reduce the cost for the setting up of new business and obviate the need to deal with different levels of authorities. equally, the directive will provide a welcome boost to cross-border service provision. the new provision on the freedom to provide services, which was at the heart of the compromise in first reading, strikes a fair balance between guaranteeing the rights of service providers to free access and free exercise of a service activity whilst allowing member states the right to invoke their most essential requirements in certain clearly defined circumstances. this will definitively improve legal certainty for service providers and consumers. importantly, the directive will be underpinned by obligations on member states to cooperate among and assist each other, in order to ensure that businesses are properly and efficiently supervised across the european union while avoiding duplication of controls. these three elements – simplification of establishment, freedom to provide services and assistance and cooperation between member states – were always at the core of the commission’s drive to open up the services market. the position of the european parliament has been crucial to finding a broad consensus on these issues. in this dossier, the european parliament has shown its maturity and capacity to find well-balanced compromises on very complex issues. at first reading you clearly took the lead and were able to deliver the broad consensus we pursued. getting a consensus in the council was not easy. some member states had serious difficulties in accepting your delicate compromise on the scope of application of the proposal and the freedom to provide services mechanism. in the end, and after a vigorous defence by the commission and the presidency of the compromise reached in parliament, the common position was adopted. it is a common position that respects and reflects parliament’s political compromise, with only minor adjustments introduced mostly to provide greater legal clarity. you are aware that the compromise reflected in the common position is very delicate and fragile. attempts to reopen the text will inevitably give rise to a new debate in the council and put in jeopardy the compromise reached. i call on parliament to recognise that the common position closely reflects parliament’s first reading, and to refrain from seeking further modifications through amendments. the vote in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on 23 october 2006 demonstrates that this is possible. at this juncture there are no ‘technical’ or ‘minor’ amendments. i am aware that in discussions leading up to the vote in the committee, certain institutional and legal issues have been raised which are of concern to some members of this house. in this context, i would like to make the following statements to address the concerns that some of you have raised. ‘ concerning the screening of national requirements which member states apply to services provided from other member states, the council has requested the commission to provide orientations and analysis and the commission will use its best efforts to abide with this task. this will not give additional powers to the commission which may, pursuant to the treaty, if it considers it necessary, formulate recommendations and deliver opinions on matters dealt with in the treaty. the orientations will merely consist of assistance to member states for the proper implementation of the services directive. they will neither provide legally binding interpretation of the directive, which is the prerogative of the european court of justice, nor will they amend the provisions of the services directive, which is the prerogative of the european parliament and the council. the commission will carry out this task in an open and transparent manner in close cooperation with the other institutions. it will in particular regularly inform the european parliament about the results and the follow-up of its analysis. concerning the need to consider further harmonisation, in the future review of the services directive, the commission will assess whether, in the field of services, further measures are necessary and, if so, what kind of measures are appropriate. the commission will, in particular, examine whether for certain services or certain issues there is a need for additional harmonisation. the commission will thereby take suggestions made by the european parliament, in particular at the first reading of the directive, into consideration. where necessary, and in line with our better regulation approach, the commission will make specific proposals, including proposals for harmonisation, where justified. concerning the impact of the services directive on labour law, the european parliament and the council wanted to avoid that the services directive affects labour law or the rights of the social partners to defend their collective interests. the commission wants to state unambiguously that the services directive does indeed not affect labour law laid down in national legislation and established practices in the member states and that it does not affect collective rights which the social partners enjoy according to national legislation and established practices. the services directive is neutral as to the different models in the member states regarding the role of the social partners and the organisation of how collective interests are defended according to national law and practices. however, community law, and in particular the treaty, continue to apply in this field. concerning the impact of the services directive on criminal law, as is stated in the text, the services directive will not affect member states’ criminal law rules. this means that in general member states will be able to apply their criminal law rules not only to service providers established on their territory but also to service providers from other member states providing services within their territory. this is because criminal law rules, in general, apply to everybody in the same way, irrespective of whether a service is provided. however, member states may not circumvent or prevent the application of the provisions of the services directive by making use of criminal law. concerning the impact of the services directive on social services, social services relating to social housing, childcare and support of families and persons in need are a manifestation of the principle of social cohesion and solidarity in society and are provided by the state, by service providers on behalf of the state or by acknowledged charitable organisations. these services have thus been excluded from the scope of application of the services directive. it is clear that this exclusion also covers services provided by churches and church organisations which serve charitable and benevolent purposes.’ i have arranged for the text of these statements to be handed in to the secretariat for inclusion in the record of this part-session. i hope that these statements help to accommodate the concerns raised by some. the commission hopes that they will facilitate the acceptance of the common position by parliament. before concluding, i note that mrs mccarthy has tabled three amendments on behalf of her committee relating to the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny. these amendments result from the agreement reached between the three institutions last summer on the revision of the comitology procedure and can be accepted by the commission. next week it will be two years since this commission entered office and i became commissioner for the internal market and services. the debate on the services directive has been at the forefront of attention for much of that time. i think we should now move to adopting the directive and start implementing it. i look forward to hearing the view of this house. (applause)
president of the council. mr president, mr gebhardt, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner mccreevy, as previous speakers have already said, we are making internal market history today. the european parliament, the council and the commission have worked together for nearly three years on a long-term and ambitious service directive. in all honesty, the work has not always been easy, and progress has not always been very rapid. we can be particularly pleased that there is a stronger consensus in this house today than at any time during the preparatory process. the directive is a major european reform. so it's no wonder there's been a lot of obstacles to the deal. there have been genuine differences of opinion on the substance and sometimes a little misunderstanding. i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the work done by the european parliament in this area. first of all, i would like to recall the recent vote in this house, the result of which can be regarded as a historic compromise. in a very challenging political situation, parliament was able to find a compromise solution which enabled the proposal for a directive to be successfully developed further. i would like to thank the european parliament once again for this compromise, and in particular the rapporteur, mr gebhardt, the chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, mr mccarthy, the shadow rapporteurs and many other representatives who have been active in promoting common solutions. in the council, the preparation of the directive has been a challenge for the six presidencies. the current situation for finland as a presidency is both pleasant and demanding. finland's presidency has been able to build on the achievements of previous presidencies, especially the austrian presidency. the council's common position of last spring has given the president a strong mandate to move forward on this matter. the council's common position is also the result of a lot of work, considerable flexibility and a genuine desire for compromise. i particularly appreciate that here in the european parliament too the sensitivity of the common position and the added value it brings have been recognised. the commission has also played a key role in the preparation of the report. the commission, in accordance with its fundamental role, has tried to put the preparations on a sustainable footing by making constructive arguments at the height of the debate in parliament and in the council. commissioner mccreevy today raised certain sensitive areas of the directive where the commission has been asked to take a position. as president, i can give my full support and appreciation to the commissioner's message, both for the necessity of the declaration and for its content. the commissioner's personal role during the complex preparation has been exemplary in terms of balance and respect for both institutions. as a result of this long preparatory work, the proposal for a directive is now under consideration in many respects. the common objective and purpose of developing the internal market in services has, however, remained unchanged. the directive opens up a number of doors both for service providers and for recipients, whether consumers or businesses. the services directive is not, however, the end point for the development of the internal market in services. the directive is a unique step in the development of the internal market for functional services. in recent years it has become clear that the provisions of the treaty alone cannot provide a sufficiently unambiguous regulation of the internal market in services, the very heart of the union. i believe that the services directive offers market operators the legal certainty they have long been waiting for. this is the greatest added value of the directive. as president-in-office of the council, i am pleased to note that there are only a few amendments to be voted on today. i would like to highlight the three amendments tabled for the plenary on the comitology format. i can confirm the council's approval of these three amendments and the council is prepared to change its common position on this. on the other hand, i hope that the common position will remain unchanged on the other amendments. i hope, mr president, that parliament will take the final, decisive decision on the services directive today at this sitting. in this way, the common objective of the two institutions, the european parliament and the council, of a second reading agreement would be achieved. (applause) i would like to thank the
for the gue/ngl group mr president, in the relations between parliament and the council, there was codecision, conciliation. the services directive now adds capitulation. how else can we describe the improbable decision of the majority groups to give in to the council's demands, to agree to withdraw all the amendments considered in the committee on the internal market and to adopt without a hit a common position of the council, which was clearly in contradiction with their own compromise of 16 february? i would remind you that the european trade union confederation considered it necessary to amend this text on points which it considers to be of 'critical importance', in particular in the sense of 'clearer exclusion of labour law and social services from the directive and greater respect for fundamental rights'. the council text makes the preservation of labour rights in the member states conditional on respect for community law. a vague formula which refers to the rules of competition. some of you may take comfort in commissioner mccreevy's reassuring statement on this subject. it's a very unique walk. i would remind you that it was mr mccreevy who, just a year ago, justified in the name of community law the refusal of a latvian company to recognise collective agreements in sweden in the waxholm case which caused a great deal of noise. the council also restored the commission's exorbitant power of control - a priori and a posteriori - over the legislation of the member states, a power which parliament had precisely sought to curb. mr mccreevy sees this change, and i quote, as a crucial improvement. we understand that! but what does parliament see in it? i'm going to. finally, the ambiguities and grey areas in the text of the directive - which i had already denounced on behalf of my group at first reading because, as i said, they lend support to the uncontrollable interpretations of the commission and the court - have already begun to be exploited in the way that we feared. the commission's communication on social services thus develops an extremely restrictive view of these services, which, as commissioner špidla has pointed out, are increasingly falling within the scope of community law on the internal market and competition. another commission communication, on the posting of workers, addresses the regulations deemed disproportionate by some member states vis-à-vis providers from other eu countries. here again, the commission relies on the inexhaustible case law of the court. where are the safeguards which the directive was supposed to offer us against this sliding of all social life into all-out competition? in general, the president-in-office had clearly warned that 'the interpretation of the court will be necessary in many cases'. well, this gigantic undertaking of deregulation, my group will not support it. the question of services is not the only one we have to consider, but also the question of the design of european construction. do we want to harmonize by law the rules of protection and upward mobility, or do we accept the harmonization by the market and competition of standards which are thus inevitably pulled downwards? do we want to promote parliamentary and citizen democracy, or are we going to be governed by case law and interpretative communications? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, nine months after its adoption at first reading, the european parliament is closing the services directive, the so-called bolkenstein directive, by approving the council's common position without amendment. it is a victory for social democracy, allied with economic ultra-liberalism. with the exception of non-market services of general interest, nothing escapes the liberalisation of services. even social services are not totally excluded from the gebhardt report. you are deceiving our people, my dear colleagues. this directive will not eliminate social, fiscal and wage dumping. the clever and dishonest service providers will continue to play on national legislation and exploit the weak points of the directive by relying on the sectoral directives. one example: more than 100 000 construction workers are posted to france on one-off contracts, most of them undeclared. there is legal social dumping on charges. the posted worker remains affiliated to the social security system of his country of origin. in this case, the labor law is legally violated. we are also opposed to the mechanisms for assessing national restrictions on the crossborder provision of services: this is unacceptable control of the states by the commission, and an additional burden on the community bureaucracy. for these reasons we shall vote against the gebhardt report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the french referendum, the ump swore that bolkestein had been removed and the socialists said that he had fallen into the dustbin of history. both of them not only lied, but now they are making their case worse in at least four situations. firstly, the principle of the country of origin. we leave the court of justice free to decide, which has been the inventor of the concept since its case law in the casis de dijon and sager cases. we can't imagine her sacrificing her creation! secondly, the protection of employees. the right to work, which is a matter for national jurisdiction, is made subject to respect for community law, without a treaty, without ratification. how far will we go in replacing commercial law with labour law? thirdly, the control of service providers. the member states are put in an untenable position by being denied any form of control. what will they know about working conditions in a polish company that they don't even know? fourthly, the services covered. the scope of the directive is being extended again, affecting some 6 000 professions, perhaps more, given the ambiguities in the text. in conclusion, i believe that with this compromise, which the twenty-five want, the court and the commission are gaining exorbitant power to achieve the full single internal market, without worrying about the social dumping which is crushing our workers and which will weigh even more heavily on unemployment. the people have been fooled by the turkish accession, deceived by the vat affair, scorned for saying no to the superstate, and betrayed by the bolkestein directive! frankly, how many of us today are capable of looking a voter in the face?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the work and determination of our rapporteur, evelyne gebhardt, and also thanks to the mobilization of the european trade union movement, parliament has eliminated at first reading the main dangers of the services directive in its original version, that of commissioner bolkestein. parliament has in particular succeeded in excluding all social services, including social housing, health services, audiovisual services, all transport, temporary employment agencies. similarly, the directive on the posting of workers and labour law could not be affected, thus eliminating the main dangers of social dumping. the country of origin principle has also been abolished. however, two major problems remained: firstly, all services of general economic interest had not been excluded from the scope of application because of the opposition of the epp and the liberals, and secondly, the new version of article 16, which indeed removed the principle of the country of origin, did not clearly establish the principle of the country of destination. these problems have not been resolved by the council's common position, and the council's common position, which indeed takes up most of the conclusions of parliament's first reading, is in fact backward on several other points, in particular social services and labour law, as the european trade union confederation has pointed out. on these and other points, the effects on criminal law, the meaning of the commission's guidelines, the need for future harmonization, everyone recognized the need for clarification, and you made a statement to that effect, commissioner. however, it would have been more logical, since the codecision procedure is not yet complete, to adopt amendments to clarify these elements in the articles themselves. unfortunately, i note that the epp has neutralised the second reading by rejecting all the amendments which were proposed by the rapporteur in the debate in the committee on the internal market. this group has in a way deprived the european parliament of its right to amend. i'm sorry to hear that. the french socialist delegation has therefore tabled a number of amendments, because it considers that the compromise is not satisfactory as it stands, that it leaves the way open to too much uncertainty as to the interpretation of the court. i believe that when it comes to distinguishing between liberalisation on the one hand and social rights and fundamental rights on the other, the role of the legislator is to clarify and not to leave the way open to case law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fifty years ago the founding fathers already envisaged the possibility of providing services freely throughout the european territory in order to create the internal market. in the service sectors, which represent a considerable part not only of our economy but above all of our jobs and competitiveness, dust-cleaning and adaptation had become not only logical but above all indispensable. i would like to make two comments: the first, on a political level, is that the bolkestein proposal, which was the proposal of a former commissioner against a former parliament, was unacceptable, and many of us here have fought it. today, after the enormous work that has been done, we are very far from this bolkestein proposal. the second point concerns the substance: this text reaffirms the principle of the free movement of services, while preserving the prospects for further harmonization of the union. i am glad that the current draft takes account of 90% of the demands of our parliament, by excluding from its scope services of general non-economic interest, certain social services and health services. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the examination of this text has been an example of the democratic exercise of parliament's power and has allowed - much to the chagrin of the extreme right and the extreme left of our assembly - to demonstrate its maturity.
mr president, commissioner, it is undeniable that parliament has worked very hard on this directive and that this text has little in common with the directive proposed by the commission two years ago. however, the fact that after the first reading the european council has changed a number of important phrases, as we have just heard, has the effect that the second reading does not go far enough, which is unfortunate. so the employees, our fellow citizens, the consumers no longer see very clearly the need for a directive on services. it is difficult for them to understand that we are liberalizing without having anything specific about social services, about health services. there is still too much uncertainty, too many grey areas in this compromise proposed by the commission and the european council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall now deal with a brief review and a few tributes. the european parliament has written the directive on the internal market for services with our hands crossed. she's got his mark on her. it is a victory for the european parliament, a victory over european gloom, a victory over ready-made ideas, a victory for the european model which is based on balance: the balance between the necessary reforms and the preservation of the gains which bring us together. the directive effectively opens up the internal market in services and obliges states to remove obstacles to the free provision of services. it is a major prospect of growth and employment for all. at the same time, it preserves existing community legislation, does not allow any infringement of social rights, excludes the liberalisation of public services and takes account of the public interest. i can testify to this compromise, since i have been involved in its elaboration since the summer of 2004, and it has its origins in the proposals of my political group and in the agreement reached within it between national and ideological positions, which were initially divergent. this is evidenced by the statement just made by józsef szájer. this directive was born of dialogue, which is the very essence of our parliamentary life. i would therefore like to begin by thanking our chief presenter, malcolm harbour, but also marianne thyssen, with whom i worked hand in hand, othmar karas, jozsef szájer and malgorzata handzlik, evelyne gebhardt, who handled the whole thing from beginning to end and was kind enough to take account of the young parliamentarian that i am, and arlene mac carthy and philippe whiterhead, whom i would especially like to remember. outside this parliament, my thanks go to commissioner mac creevy, who has kept his commitments to parliament from the start, and also to mr bartenstein who has played a decisive role. i have heard some incredible things. my dear colleagues, the best is the enemy of the good. the common position represents 95% of our text. mr president, would we really be exercising our power by engaging in conciliation, which we know will result in no directive? the role of parliament, our right, is to take responsibility. that is why the french members of the ump will vote in favour of the common position, choosing the essential.
mr president, i would add my reservations to those of my colleague mr mölzer. there are some excellent things in this report, particularly the fact that it points out that the teaching of english does not need to be subsidised by the european union. it has an extremely ambitious position which wants to make all the minority languages - some 60 - official languages, but somewhat to the detriment of the 21 national languages of the union, some of which are already somewhat extremely endangered languages: latvian, lithuanian, estonian, magyar, slovenian are not languages of international communication. and even the situation of italian, german or french is somewhat worrying. it is rather paradoxical that the report proposes to make savings on the grounds that these official languages of the european union are no longer necessarily considered as working languages in all delegations, and this in order to free up funds for the benefit of regional languages. we had yesterday the rather regrettable example of the head of a state recently promoted to complete independence who felt it was his duty to speak in english, rather than in his mother tongue, while he was a student in strasbourg! i think that this bodes rather ill for the evolution of multilingualism in the european union!
in writing. it is a good thing to want to make the granting of the system of generalised preferences to certain countries, i.e. privileged access to the european market for their exports, conditional on these countries complying with the minimum rules of the international labour organisation. but as usual with this kind of resolution, i'm afraid we're stuck at the wish-fulfillment stage. i do not believe that, despite the clauses on respect for human rights and fundamental 'social' rights which europe in brussels embellishes with its international trade agreements, it has ever sanctioned any violation of these rights and enforced these clauses. it has agreed to trade with china and has supported its entry into the wto, despite what we know about the working conditions in this communist country, the existence of laogai and forced labour, political repression and the lack of freedoms, and even the systematic violation of property rights, through the large-scale counterfeiting and copying that is practised there. the problem here is one of credibility, and europe has none of that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although much progress has been made in relation to the original text presented by the european commission, the directive on services in the internal market which has been put to our vote today is different from the first reading of the european parliament. i therefore voted against the common position. the services of general economic interest are still covered by the directive, as are some services of general interest. the scope of the exclusion of social services of general interest is also much more limited. the fundamental rights guaranteed by the european charter are now only mentioned in a recital. finally, the text remains very ambiguous as regards the exclusion of labour law. the written statement presented by the european commission provides some of the answers to these questions, which i consider essential, but it has no legal value and, in the event of a dispute being brought before the courts, the court of justice may disregard it. it would have been different if that statement had come from the council, which is a co-legislator with parliament.
in writing. the adoption by the european parliament of the services directive makes it possible to establish the general provisions to facilitate the exercise of the freedom of establishment of providers and the free movement of services whose high quality is guaranteed while avoiding the risk of social dumping included in the original concept of the country of origin principle which has been abolished. its scope has been considerably reduced by excluding, in particular, health services, non-market public services and certain market public services. service activities account for 70% of the eu's gdp and offer considerable growth and employment potential. i would like to point out, in retrospect, how wise it was for the president of the french republic, mr jacques chirac, to stop the original text presented by the prodi commission at the time. this dossier marks the growing influence of the european parliament, for whom it is a major political victory, and it symbolises the concept of the social market economy as expressed in the draft constitutional treaty for europe. the eyes must now be turned to the member states, which have the responsibility to transpose this text into national law in a fair, equitable and sincere manner.
in writing. i voted for the motion for a resolution rejecting the council's common position on services in the internal market. the vote on second reading was on a text which differed from the vote on first reading. there are still too many uncertainties about the application of the principle of country of origin. the text does not clarify the ambiguities that remain regarding the protection of public services and consumers. more seriously, whereas labour law is a matter for national competence, the council has just made compliance with labour law conditional on community decisions, since compliance with labour law will now be subject to the judgments of the court of justice of the european community. the european union is turning its back on its original ambition to create a european area of solidarity. with the downward harmonisation of social, environmental and consumer protection rules, the european social model is being undermined.
in writing. the french socialists refused on wednesday, 15 november, to endorse the report on services in the internal market, in other words the services directive. in fact, despite the very important progress made by the socialist group and the socialist rapporteur, evelyne gebhardt, at first reading - in particular the rejection of the country of origin principle - parliament did not obtain any guarantee from the commission for a draft framework directive on public services. the second reading of a text does not include a final vote on the whole text, so we supported the amendment to reject the text tabled by several groups (gue/ngl and greens/efa). we have also tabled several amendments aimed in particular at ensuring that the freedom of member states to define what they mean by social services of general interest is respected. as bernard poignant, speaking for the french socialists, has said, 'the definition, formulation, organisation and actual financing of services of general interest, whether economic or not, must remain a matter for the member states and their regional and local authorities'.
in writing. i voted for the amendment rejecting the council's common position on the services directive. it is not satisfactory because it introduces more confusion and legal uncertainty and further weakens the amended proposal adopted by the european parliament at first reading, which i voted against. this is particularly the case for labour law and for social and public services excluded from the scope of the services directive. but above all, the council text gives the commission a power of orientation as regards the application of the directive. the concept of country of origin has disappeared from the text in the text amended by the commission, but it has not been replaced by the concept of country of destination or host country. this seems to me to be very damaging, especially since it will be the court of justice of the european communities which will settle any conflicts that may arise. the directive on services of liberal orientation was therefore adopted on 15 november. three years of debate have not been able to avoid an epilogue with dangerous consequences for political and social europe. it is a bad blow to the european construction which hardly needed it.
in writing. despite considerable progress compared with the european commission's initial draft, the text on services in the union proposed today at second reading does not provide sufficient guarantees to avoid any risk of disruption of the european social model. some sensitive social services, such as social housing, family support services or public health services, which were initially excluded from the scope of the future directive at first reading, have thus been reintroduced by the member states. the legal vacuum created by the abolition of the ppo has not been removed, leaving the power to define the future shape of european social policy to the judges of the court of justice and not to the legislator, through the case law that this situation will inevitably generate. in this context, it is clear that the written statement of the commission, which is intended to clarify some of the shortcomings of the text, such as the exclusion of labour law, has no real legal value, which makes its weight and usefulness particularly uncertain. for all these reasons, i voted against the proposal for a directive on services.
in writing. if the new version of the bolkestein directive had not already suffered from serious shortcomings, in particular the fact that it was not fundamentally different from the previous one, there would have been only one reason for rejecting it: the suspicious consensus of the two major groups, the pse and the epp, between themselves, and moreover for accepting the compromise worked out in the council. the real revolution would have consisted, among other things, in explicitly affirming the primacy of the application in the territory of a member state of its national law, in particular its national labour law, its national social, criminal and fiscal laws. that is to say, the principle of the country of destination as opposed to the principle of the country of origin. this would not have prevented providers from another member state from offering services in another country, it would simply have allowed fair competition with national operators. the revolution would have consisted in accepting that the states could impose conditions on access to certain activities, such as the situation of the labour market or reasons for land use planning. they don't have that option. after competition with the rest of the world, competition between firms, europe now devotes itself to competition between european workers, selfemployed or employed, and thus to competition between social systems. it's going into the wall.
in writing. the services directive has just been adopted by a clear majority. it is to the credit of the european parliament. it is a victory for the european union. why would you do that? services account for more than half of the european economy and are the main source of employment. the free provision of services is one of the founding principles of the union and the creation of a genuine internal market in services is essential for economic growth in europe and therefore for job creation. the text voted on today in strasbourg commits us to this, while providing the necessary guarantees on the safeguarding of public services of general interest and on the sustainability of our social acquis and our labour law. by excluding the principle of country of origin, it prohibits social competition and constitutes an effective barrier to social dumping. it removes unjustified protectionist barriers, while allowing member states to apply their national rules where the public interest so warrants. the scope of the text has also been reduced, with the exclusion of sensitive sectors such as the audiovisual sector, health, part of the social services, games and notaries. it is a good compromise that will move europe forward in the interests of its people.
in writing. i voted against this directive because i believe that, despite the improvements achieved in the parliamentary debate and under the pressure of the trade unions and citizens, it remains profoundly liberal. there is no prospect of real harmonization for the benefit of consumers and workers, in contrast to the tremendous deregulation of the services sector in europe, which is mainly for the benefit of businesses. as for public services, while the commission refuses to move forward with the framework directive on services of general interest, the services directive is contributing to the weakening of public services, some of which will suffer the same effects as mere market services. finally, the 'prohibited and to be assessed requirements' of articles 14 and 15 make any public regulation in the services sector impossible, or at least extremely difficult. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am glad that the commission has taken this step.
in writing. despite some improvements, despite some additional sectors excluded from the scope of application, or rather of nuisance, of the bolkestein directive in its first version, this text, in its new form, remains fundamentally unacceptable. the door remains open to social dumping and unfair competition between workers. it does not in fact solve any of the problems raised by the original directive. it does not exclude public services and does not guarantee the right of states to determine their definition, organisation and financing. it denies the legitimate economic, social or other requirements which those same states may impose on access to an activity, and only allows them to rely on 'overriding reasons of general interest', a vague concept which the luxembourg court will interpret in the most restrictive sense. it makes compliance with the labour law of the state in which the service is provided subject to compliance with community law and in particular with the principle of freedom to provide services laid down in the treaties, which amounts to denying the application of that national law. millions of europeans have said 'no' to this ultra-liberal europe which despises men and peoples and favours the laws of the market, financial interests and sacrosanct competition. hear them before it's too late!
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment rejecting this directive, which is a step back from the vote at first reading because it leaves open the application of the principle of the country of origin and does not exclude public services - gis, sgei - from this 'free' competition, which will be very destabilised. the european commission explains that the text does not clearly state which law will apply and therefore private international law, which is close to the principle of the country of origin, will apply most of the time. the scope for action by the states in the social field will be extremely limited. despite formal advances, little by little, the liberal reality will prevail with this text and our social model will be called into question.
in writing. in an attempt to win the consent of the french people in the referendum on the european constitution, the supporters of the "yes" vote, particularly the ump, made three promises to the french people: the withdrawal of the bolkestein directive, the lowering of vat for the restoration of the monarchy and the abandonment of the turkish accession project. the french will finally have turkey, bolkestein and an unchanged vat. the compromise we are voting on today is a seemingly watered-down version of the original text, with full powers for the commission and the court of justice to reinstate the original text in the background. how can mr toubon say that by accepting this compromise he wishes to "avoid the worst"? the worst thing would be the absence of a directive, but the absence of a directive is precisely the promise made to the french people in 2005 by the ump and the head of state!
in writing. i voted against the common position in order to be consistent with my vote on the services directive at first reading. the council did not accept all the amendments proposed by the european parliament. the rejection is necessary because the council's common position does not clearly exclude labour law and social services of general interest. that is why i co-signed and voted for three amendments by the french socialist delegation which provide for the clear and complete exclusion of labour law and social services of general interest from the scope of the services directive. it is a question of protecting the fundamental rights of citizens. these should not be governed by the rules of the internal market. the commission's statement, although it clarifies its intention on several points, cannot be sufficient as it has no binding force. i have voted in favour of the amendments seeking to exclude services of general interest from the scope of this directive.
the agenda calls for the council and commission statements on the situation in gaza.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i was with mr davies, mrs morgantini and other members in gaza two weeks ago, on the day the israeli army began its siege of beit hanoun: it was the beginning of a campaign of extrajudicial executions, massacres and destruction of civilian property. israel, the occupying power in the palestinian territories, continues to violate human rights and international humanitarian law with impunity. the use of excessive and indiscriminate force against civilians and civilian objects, the destruction of electricity and water supply installations, the demolition of public buildings with explosives, the restrictions on freedom of movement and the consequences of all these actions for public health, food, family life and the psychological state of the palestinian people constitute flagrant collective punishment, in flagrant violation of the fourth geneva convention. the continuous firing of kassam rockets at israel is inexcusable, but nothing can justify an entire people being subjected to the draconian punishment imposed by israel. in such circumstances, the european union must stop backing israeli policy. it must in particular assume its full responsibilities for the supervision of the rafah crossing point and no longer simply bow to the will of the israeli government. the union must use the instruments at its disposal under the association agreement, in particular the human rights clause, to ensure that violations of human rights and humanitarian law do not go unpunished. it must demand the reimbursement of taxes illegally withheld by the israelis. dialogue with the future government of national unity must be resumed as soon as possible and direct aid to the palestinian institutions must be restored. finally, the european union and the member states must do everything possible to enforce the opinion of the international court of justice on the illegal construction of the wall. a meeting of the eu-israel association council must be convened as a matter of urgency. the revision of the agreement should be considered if the violations do not stop. finally, the european union must play its full part in the organization of an international conference for peace in the region.
mr president, after lebanon in qana, we are witnessing another massacre of civilians, this time in beit hanoun. the israeli government has deplored this latest tragedy, calling it a technical error. but we already know that this recognition will not be enough to stop the slaughter of more innocents in the future. in order to stop this endless escalation, europe must break out of its inertia and finally take strong initiatives towards a rapid and lasting peace. first, we must stop financially suffocating the palestinian territories because if we wanted to increase violence and create chaos, we would do it no other way. secondly, we must establish as soon as possible a military force between israel and palestine, as has been done between lebanon and israel with unifil. if this force is good in lebanon, it will be good in palestine. and, above all, we must finally demand the creation of a palestinian state with secure and recognized borders. a window may be opening today with the outcome of the u.s. midterm elections. the american administration, i hope, will redefine its policy in the middle east. in the new strategy which is emerging, europe must take the initiative in a new dynamic for peace, in which it must finally occupy the political place which is its own and not just that of the cash drawer. we must never forget that the conflict between israel and palestine is not a conflict like any other. it is a matter of international concern. the time has come. it's an emergency. let us be courageous and take up our responsibilities before it is too late!
madam minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to see the almost historic consensus reached between the various political groups in this parliament, which allows us to send a clear political message. clearly, the israeli military strikes cannot be described as "technical error". it is felt that this is more of a collective punishment of the palestinian citizens, who are held responsible for the political choices made after the last parliamentary elections. i can only deplore the similarity with the methods used against the civilian population in southern lebanon during the war in the summer of 2006, with both cases involving the same use of cluster bombs. of course, the israeli population is also the target of murderous attacks. but we have a right to expect from a democratic state like israel a conduct that is in accordance with international law, which cannot be demanded from terrorist organizations. in this context, the european union must be the driving force behind the quartet's efforts to revive the road map. the new american political situation, the prospect of the formation of a national unity government in palestine and also, and above all, the protest voices rising in israeli society are factors of hope for the revival of the peace process.
president of the council. mr president, i thank the members for this very valuable and worthwhile debate. the council shares the view, strongly expressed in this debate, that it is time for policy. it is time for politics and we have always been of the opinion that this crisis cannot be solved by military means but that a comprehensive political solution is needed. what is needed is a solution that implies a two-state model, and that in turn requires that the people of the region, including ordinary people, actually accept this goal of coexistence and commit themselves to it at all levels of society. the european union is strongly encouraged to do what it can. on behalf of the council, i can assure you that the union and the presidency will do whatever it can. the european union's potential and strength in resolving this crisis lies in its credibility as an actor in the eyes of all concerned. not everyone has that strength. in order to maintain its capacity to act and its role as a credible actor in the solution of this crisis, the union must be able to pursue a coherent and unified policy, and maintaining this unity is a daily challenge. we will be strongly and actively working to ensure that the quartet has a strong role to play in solving this crisis and we will seek to support the quartet's active activities. it is also essential that we have the capacity and the ability to involve the countries of the region in this process in order to find a comprehensive solution. the next time the middle east issue will certainly be on the agenda of our multilateral cooperation, at the european union-russia summit next week and at the barcelona process foreign ministers' meeting in tampere at the end of november, and we are also working hard to bring the quartet together in december. this is an important issue and a deep and long-standing problem at the very heart of europe, so we must all join forces to find a comprehensive, political, long-term and lasting solution.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, escalating violence in gaza only increases civilian suffering and fuels extremism. as i have said, the commission has stepped up its assistance for meeting emergency and humanitarian needs. that is a useful contribution, but the solution lies elsewhere. the only way forward for israel and the palestinians is the negotiation of a viable two-state solution. the international community – as many of you have already said – has the duty to revive a credible peace process. the european union should play a leading role in that respect and, through its participation in the quartet, encourage any ideas aimed at furthering peace in that area, including an international conference on the middle east process.
i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2), six motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the review conference of the biological and toxin weapons convention (btwc) to be held in 2006.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the union and the council are indeed concerned that people are injured and killed in conflict zones after the conflict has ended. this is particularly evident in lebanon at the moment, where unexploded ordnance is a real problem for the civilian population. the presidency welcomes the entry into force of the protocol on unexploded ordnance. we will continue to work to minimize the damage caused to civilians by the shelling. as regards international cooperation on live ammunition from now on, we will continue our efforts to find a common position within the european union and to make progress on this matter. finally, i would like to say that the letter from mr beer and his colleagues to the presidency will be answered very shortly.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the informed debate that has taken place on these issues is one more strand in the argument against war and another argument for prevention and hopefully being able to avoid the use of these weapons. as you know, under the common foreign and security policy, these are not areas in which the commission takes the lead. however, we are part of the solution when dealing with the aftermath of war. the human suffering, unexploded munitions and humanitarian problems which result from wars around the world are a challenge for us. the commission will of course continue to support the clearance of such weapons, working with the international community and ngos. the war in lebanon lasted a few days, but the human suffering will continue for many years.
i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2), six motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the council on the european initiative in the field of civil protection, by karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, gerardo galeote, on behalf of the committee on regional development, and joseph daul, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-0115/2006) (b6-0442/2006).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one area in which all european citizens expect an effective community response, it is to respond to major natural disasters. we have all seen in the case of major disasters such as the tsunami that rapid action is taken, not only by governments and ngos, but also by our citizens who, by donating money, clothes and time, have been able to mobilize. but we also saw in each of these disasters that what was missing was good organization. we are faced with an organizational shortcoming. that is why my group and i support the establishment of preventive measures and the ability to react very quickly after a disaster. i would like to emphasize the quality of the barnier report, which has put the problem right and has given the right answers: good answers in terms of efficiency, of course, as my colleagues have already pointed out, but also a good answer in terms of subsidiarity. i would like to stress the importance of this report. while there is no doubt that the various military services, fire brigades and other actors must exercise their responsibilities fully, it must be recognised that only the european union is capable of providing preventive and reactive coordination. finally, i would like to emphasize that the european union has thus had the opportunity to demonstrate to the world that the word 'solidarity' is not a vain word but can be translated into 'concrete action'. if, in the face of future disasters, which unfortunately are likely to occur in 2007, as in the past, the european union is present on the ground to respond to human suffering, to reduce the material, technical and ecological impacts, it will appear to the world to be more solidary and much more concrete.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has become very clear in this debate that the council and parliament, and certainly the commission, have precisely the same objectives. first of all, we must be able to create effective coordination arrangements for the rescue services. the second objective we share is to ensure that aid is effectively delivered to where it is needed. it is good to remember that good cooperation is precisely what is needed to achieve common objectives. we do not necessarily need new structures automatically, nor should we imagine that simply creating a new structure is all right. cooperation is therefore the first and key word. in addition, when we talk about various natural disasters, especially when they occur outside the european union, we must bear in mind that there are a very large number of actors on the ground other than the european union. in such situations, it is necessary for the union to be part of a wider international coordination. this need for coordination at the field level was particularly evident in the tsunami disaster, when dozens, even hundreds, of actors were on the ground at the same time. barnier's proposals are currently being considered and digested by the member states. they are very ambitious and at the moment the council's work is concentrated on getting decisions on the financial instrument and thus on the common rescue service instrument. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the strategy developed in the excellent barnier report to optimise the very large efforts of europeans in emergency aid could complement the community civil protection mechanism established in 2001, whether the crisis is internal or external to the union. i would particularly like to mention the proposal to 'support this force in the seven outermost regions of the union', thanks to which europe is present in human and territorial terms off the coast of africa - canary islands, madeira - in the indian ocean - réunion - close to the american continent - guyana, martinique, guadeloupe, azores - not to mention the overseas territories in the pacific - french polynesia, new caledonia. we must follow the example of the french red cross, which has set up overseas emergency response teams capable of reaching the area in less than 24 hours, providing emergency hospitals, tents, medicines, water supplies, telecommunications and logistics. to make the 'europe of projects' a reality, the european union must take initiatives that are driven by a clear, understandable and strong political will. a strengthened european civil protection would have a federative dimension, allowing a strong identification of european action, and would be a source of pride for our fellow citizens, in accordance with the principle of solidarity dear to our community.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr luis herrero-tejedor, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the white paper on a european communication policy (2006/2087 (ini)) (a6-0365/2006).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr herrero-tejedor, for his hard work, the positive tone of this report and the support it gives to the commission’s ideas. however, i must say that i hope his friend is a better journalist than he is an expert on the eu institutions. when the commission adopted the white paper back in february we said that we intended to open a new chapter as regards communication between the european union and its citizens. as we put it, the new communication policy should move from monologue to dialogue. it should put ears on the european union. it should move from institution-centred communication to a citizen-centred approach based on people’s fundamental right to information and to be heard. it should move from brussels-based communication to a decentralised approach and from an accessory tool to a real european policy on an equal footing with other eu policies. in other words, it should be a policy in its own right. this leads me directly to the issue of the legal basis for the communication policy, which is, i agree, an issue here, and a very difficult and controversial one at that. it is a means of giving legitimacy to what we do and creating commitment, and it would set out the principles by which we worked on communication. the commission has proposed a citizens charter, or a code of conduct as we have called it, to which the institutional actors, including member states, could subscribe on a voluntary basis. the report suggests a somewhat different approach, inviting the commission to work on a draft interinstitutional agreement. it also urges the commission to explore the possibility of launching a genuine community programme for information and communication on europe on the basis of article 308 of the ec treaty. the commission is willing, as you recommend, to explore all possibilities for finding a sound basis for joint action, ranging from a citizens charter to a formal legal base. i am more than happy to embrace those ideas, again in order to give legitimacy to what we do. i am glad to see that your report acknowledges the importance of civic education and citizens’ involvement in the decision-making process. it calls on the commission to ensure consultation with the public at an early stage of policy-shaping, and this view is also shared by a broad cross-section of civil society. we shall certainly take action in this regard. we are all more than aware of the crucial role that the media – press, television, radio and the internet – play in contemporary democracy. we all know that a large part of the communication gap has to do with the fact that european affairs are quite marginal and often misrepresented in the media. i would like to be clear on this issue, because you have asked the commission to define with the greatest precision what role it would like to assign to the media. however, the problem cannot be addressed from that angle. the only role the media can have is the one that our democratic tradition has entrusted them with, which is to inform citizens in an independent, pluralistic and critical manner on european issues in the same way as domestic issues. the problem is how to create the conditions for this to happen, and this will be the theme of a stakeholders’ conference that will take place in helsinki in december, as a follow-up to the white paper. another central theme of the white paper is understanding public opinion. our societies are experiencing unprecedented changes due to higher internal mobility, migration and globalisation. public opinion has become more and more complex to define and comprehend. over the last 30 years, the eurobarometer has been a very useful tool for measuring public opinion, perceptions and orientations. however, we feel that much more can be done. i take note of your hesitations as regards our proposal for an observatory for european public opinion, but we can adopt a more pragmatic approach or step-by-step approach to this matter. for example, the idea of setting up networks of experts to exchange best practices and exploit synergies received considerable support during the public consultation. i shall not touch upon the many other issues that you rightly address in your comprehensive report, such as the role of member states, the importance of the regional and local level, the involvement of national parliaments or the responsibilities of political parties, which are all crucial, of course. we fundamentally agree on those issues, and i am very glad that the scope of my mandate allows me to work out concrete proposals to help realise these common aspirations. your report is a milestone in the process we have started with the white paper. it contains strong encouragement to move forward on the basis of ever-closer cooperation between our two institutions. the commission will issue its final report on the white paper next spring. that report will set out a series of concrete proposals, to be followed up by operational plans of action. the way ahead is still long and far from easy, but i am confident that, with your support, we can make a real change in the way europe communicates with its citizens by giving them a real say and by listening to them. an eu communication policy can be a tool to strengthen democracy and i look forward to the debate on it.
the committee on constitutional affairs has tabled a number of amendments to the report. mr president, the committee on constitutional affairs has clearly agreed to a communication policy of its own and welcomes the work of commissioner wallström. it is high time we had such a policy, if we are to believe the eurobarometers which show the discrepancy between our institutions and the expectations of the citizens. the afco committee also welcomes the commission's proposal for a two-way communication, which is very new: the institutions talking to the citizens and the citizens talking to the institutions. the problem is that, after having set out this excellent principle at the beginning of the white paper, we are now trying desperately to find a way for citizens to express their views in practice. that is the great flaw in your proposal, madam commissioner. you may find useful inspiration in the proposals of parliament, in particular the one concerning the creation of a citizen's agora, this consultative body which will enter into a test phase in 2007. our committee is not opposed in principle to a new interinstitutional instrument, charter or code, but it does ask that the guarantees and obligations which this implies be carefully studied. it also recalled that the charter of fundamental rights already defines rights to information and that the prerogatives of parliament, in particular its right to address the citizens freely, must be respected in all cases. it is also necessary to take account of the very particular pace of debate at european level, which is totally disconnected from national agendas. in this connection, we would like to reiterate our wish to have an annual debate on this subject in plenary, here in parliament. as regards new technologies, we are in favour of using them, provided, however, that we do not create a digital divide between citizens who will have access to these new technologies and those who will not. we also believe that we need to prioritise our partnerships between civil society, european political parties and journalists better, while fully respecting their independence, of course. we are even going so far as to make an iconoclastic proposal: the development of a european local administration so that brussels can be closer to the citizens. the unstated point in my report concerns the legal basis. the afco committee did not wish to comment on article 308. in a very close vote, it did not want to refer explicitly to this article, but in another very close vote, thanks to andrew duff it did not formally rule out the use of the same article 308, understand who can... the debate on the legal basis therefore remains very open, even if i personally and tactically agree wholeheartedly with what your rapporteur, mr luis herrero-tejedor, is proposing, and i commend him for his openness and friendliness and for the constructive nature of his work.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, as rapporteur for the socialists on the draft report on the white paper on european communication policy, i would like to welcome, as mr onesta has done before, the fact that communication is finally being conceived as a two-way process between the institutions and the citizens, and no longer as a simple marketing operation. however, there is still a long way to go before european communication is established to integrate european issues into the very heart of the public sphere at national level. i have said it in committee and i will say it again here: i regret that the white paper continues to overvalue new technologies and undervalue national television. it is well known that national generalist channels remain - as eurobarometer surveys show - the preferred source of information for the inhabitants of the union. and i think that action is needed at this level. the white paper is also strangely silent on the financial means. but we all know that democracy and therefore communication have a cost. as long as the union's multiannual budget is less than that of a european advertising agency, little can be done. i would of course like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr herrero, and tell him that the debate on article 308 is not closed and that my colleague, mrs christa prets, will come back to this issue in a moment. commissioner, whenever the commission talks about communication policy, it is unfortunately when europe is in crisis! and it is only when things are going badly that the commission feels the need to communicate. the question which is put to the commission concerns the very content of its communication. citizens identify the commission as an ultra-liberal body that has no concern at all for protecting european citizens from the strong winds of globalisation. we owe it to the citizens, and to democracy, to offer a better explanation of what is happening in brussels. most european citizens are unaware of the achievements made possible by eu policies and funding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the liberalisation of electricity, gas, rail and road transport and now the postal services is because the member states wanted it! without the will of the member states, this would not have been achieved. in conclusion, i believe that what we need is not so much a code of conduct for the european institutions on communication with citizens as a code of conduct for the commission to conduct a policy that is more in line with the concerns of our fellow citizens. finally, a short code of conduct must be submitted to the member states so that they can assume their responsibilities and stop once and for all 'nationalizing' european successes and 'communitizing' their national failures. europe will be greatly affected.
thank you, commissioner. i was eager to get involved in that debate. the commissioner has made some extremely correct statements and i thank her for speaking so forcefully, but i would be out of my role if i went further. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. some of mr von wogau's analyses are in line with ours, particularly those concerning the threats to europe's security: terrorism, the vulnerability of our oil supplies, the porosity of our borders... indeed, contrary to the claims of our governments, which have dismantled the defense systems of our nations, the world is more dangerous today than it was before the fall of the berlin wall. the proposals in the report, however, are based on a second delusion, namely, that nations can rely on supranational agencies to ensure their security. but in the face of adversity, a nation is always alone. today the united states spends 3.5% of its gdp on defence, compared with less than 1% for the 25 member states of the european union. of course, european harmonization of defence equipment is necessary, but let us not dissolve our armies into a eurocorps, where orders are given in 21 languages and which, through nato, is under american command. let us strengthen the defence of each of our countries! this effort will be made only by independent nations, conscious of their identity. the first condition is that the europe of brussels, without soul and without frontiers, be replaced by a europe of sovereign nations!
in writing. in seeking to resolve the problems of conflicts of laws and jurisdiction in the field of succession and wills, the european parliament has, for once, avoided interfering with the exclusive competence of the national states. the 50,000 to 100,000 successions with international interests opened each year in the european union do not justify a new approach to the forced unification of substantive law rules, but only of rules of private international law, as well as the creation of a 'european certificate of succession'. we therefore support parliament's second recommendation, which seeks only to harmonise the rules on conflicts of rights and jurisdiction. we believe that this is the only way in which the member states can preserve their own legal systems, customs and traditions. only then will it be possible to coordinate effectively the national legal systems involved in a given succession. in order to prevent possible conflicts of laws in matters of inheritance, it is necessary and sufficient to know in advance in a certain and unquestionable way which law will be applicable.
in writing. i voted in favour of the gomes report on the place of women in economic and political decision-making positions. the political will shown at the beijing summit in 1995 and the existing international conventions have indeed helped to raise awareness of the issue of parity among the public and policy-makers at all levels of society. however, these declarations have not resolved the non-legal obstacles which still prevent women from participating fully in public life. it is necessary for the member states to adopt measures to reconcile social, professional and family life, in line with the conclusions of the barcelona european council and the lisbon strategy. i support the creation of a european institute for gender equality to address the low presence of women in politics and to promote a stronger representation of women in international politics. new avenues for women to be more involved in peace and security issues, including through more equal appointments to the united nations or to the european union's external representations, are therefore urgently needed.
in writing. in germany, liberia, chile and, more recently, in the us congress, the entry of women into key positions has been widely applauded. i would like to join in the applause, but i hope that one day these women's successes will no longer be symbolic but will become a commonplace event. it is no longer enough for a female politician to focus her media discourse on the real or supposed machismo of her opponents, as the sad "example" given by the internal campaign in the french socialist party for the presidential inauguration reveals. we must show more responsibility than demand, since gender equality is now accepted as a logical proposition. the european parliament's ump delegation, which comprises nine women and eight men, is particularly advanced in this respect. i hope that the vocation and motivation of a new generation of women to become involved in politics will be supported. but rather than multiplying the number of regulations that are too stringent and sometimes too radical to favour women, we must have confidence in their ability to assert themselves and to advance their convictions at all levels, local, national or european, as women, of course, but also as elected representatives.
in writing. i would like to congratulate edit bauer on this very high quality report. the unanimous adoption of the report by the libe committee is a testament to this. it is also important to note that the international trafficking of human beings affects between 600 000 and 800 000 men, women and children every year. about 80% of these victims are women and 50% are underage girls. the majority of trafficked victims are subject to commercial sexual exploitation. in order to deal with the increase in trafficking and its increasingly international character, this report proposes a series of integrated measures to be taken at european level which seem to me to be commensurate with the challenges associated with this scourge. above all, it underlines the eu's willingness to follow a human rights and victim-centred approach which i believe is crucial. for these reasons, and because the fight for respect for human dignity deserves our full support, i voted in favour of this text proposing the adoption of a european parliament recommendation to the council on the fight against trafficking in human beings.
in writing. strangely, this report attempts to make a clear distinction between human trafficking and illegal immigration. yet in many cases there is an undeniable similarity, for illegal immigration has become a veritable human trafficking, the most heinous of which is that of sexual exploitation. but who are the real culprits? is it not true that smugglers, drug traffickers, pimps and other slave traders are the ones who profit from a european territory without internal border controls and totally open to migration flows? but it is also the national and european leaders who do nothing serious about illegal entry, mass immigration, fake marriages or worse: who implement an openly "immigrationist" policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. but the placebo effect will not last long because the real problem, the absence of internal border controls in the european union, remains. without calling into question the free movement of persons who are not union citizens, a veritable dogma established by brussels, illegal immigration will continue to grow irresistibly!
in writing. the report succeeds in making an illusory distinction between trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration. but since the disastrous schengen agreements signed in 1985, which abolished internal border controls in the european union, these two phenomena, which no one doubts are closely linked, have grown exponentially. since europe took over from the member states to create "an area of freedom, security and justice", the profits of the mafia, the pimps and the organised gangs of smugglers have never been so high. these networks are multiplying and thriving by exploiting more and more human beings. in order to find a solution to these human tragedies, the commission and parliament propose that we organise political dialogues between states and various cooperation programmes and plans. what's the point? it is high time to tackle the real causes of human trafficking and illegal immigration: the absence of safe and secure borders in europe. but it is true that it is impossible for our eurocrats to call into question the sacred rule of free movement of persons!
in writing. the figures and estimates of human trafficking are frightening. mrs bauer's report says that 600 000 to 800 000 men, women and children are trafficked internationally every year. exploitation which includes, at a minimum, prostitution but also forced labour or services, slavery or organ harvesting. but what the report does not tell us is that these human tragedies have been growing ever since the destructive schengen agreements abolishing internal border controls were signed in 1985. the european paradise, the 'area of security, freedom and justice' so long awaited and desired by all, is now in all the member states a non-existent, worse, dangerous and conducive to the development of all the mafias and organized criminals. as long as our national and european institutions refuse to see that the origin of the increase in international trafficking is the permeability of borders and as long as all policies to combat trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration require the immediate reintroduction of border controls in europe, one programme after another will have the same effect as a cataplasm on a wooden leg!
in writing. the stated aim of european communication policy is to "counter the effect of the rejection of the constitution [...] and to curb the general increase in euroscepticism". what do you think? information on europe, truncated, distorted, exploited by the media or the national political classes. what's the solution? the beating about the benefits of the european union organized by a brussels "propaganda staffel". the target? the citizens, whose euroscepticism is directly proportional to their ignorance of the paradise prepared for them in brussels and who must be converted to beatific admiration and unconditional support. who are we kidding? you didn't listen, you didn't hear, you didn't understand. it is precisely because they were informed, and they were informed at the source, by reading the text, that the french and dutch citizens rejected the constitution en masse. it is precisely because they live the economic and social disasters of your policy on a daily basis that they are eurosceptic. it is because for once they were asked directly for their opinion that they have taken an interest in europe. and it is because you have a visceral fear of the people that you prefer the skull-blowing to the direct consultation of these citizens whom you consider, in essence, to be idiots. they're giving you a good deal.
mr president, commissioner, a few weeks ago the european parliament, as part of its interparliamentary delegation for relations with the countries of south asia, brought a very large number of representatives of civil society from bangladesh, and it was very interesting. it was very interesting, first of all, to see the reaction of the poor bangladeshi ambassador who had been appointed on the same day and who was discovering parliament on that occasion: he saw the damage that democracy and transparency can cause when they are applied! we learned a great deal that day, which was very useful, since the representatives of your commission who were present and who, at the beginning of the morning, were not really "hot" to go and check on the spot what was going on. after hearing what we all heard, they were forced to admit at the end of the meeting that the situation was so serious that they had to intervene. i will not go back to what my colleagues have said about poverty, corruption, violence and torture - torture not only by the squads of the various militias, but also by the police. the figures are staggering: in 2005, there were 2,297 cases of torture by the police. i would remind you of the case of this journalist, mr salah uddin shoaid choudhury, who is facing the death penalty for the sole reason that he spoke freely: it is absolutely intolerable! i should also like to mention a figure from your commission, commissioner: your own services estimate that over 13 million invalid names have been added to the electoral rolls. how can we envisage elections when we know in advance that fraud will be so massive, so organized? that is why, beyond the vote in favour which i hope we will cast today in a very large number, the commission must do everything in its power to send signals to the government to change the rules of the game quickly, to bring it into line with the democratic standards that this country experienced a few years ago, and thus put an end to the institutional violence which unfortunately degenerates into social violence.
prime minister of ireland. mr president, in response to all of the speakers, there is obviously a great divergence of views and opinions, but this parliament, by an enormous majority, did ratify and support the constitution. however, i want to thank all the members for their points of view. it is useful for me as a member of the european council, and having been so involved in the constitution, just to hear those points. i think the exchange from that has been very valuable. it gives me a perspective that i suppose is difficult to get from this remove. as all of those members have said, it is important we listen to the people. it is not always possible to listen to all the people, but in that case you can listen to their elected representatives. this has afforded me the opportunity of explaining the rationale underpinning so many views on the constitution. i have also had an opportunity to give my views. i think that the constitution is a very balanced and fair document. i think it is an equitable document. of course it is made up of compromises. when you are trying to get 25 countries – as it was then – to agree, there have to be compromises in the text. it was not just a quick question of any one person saying ‘this is the position’. things change. as i went around europe there were many issues that were totally different in different countries, that caught the public imagination, that created a lot of difficulties in the media, and then people had to change or deliberate on what wording they could agree on, so it is not perfect insofar as it is just written with no ambiguities whatever, but it has been negotiated. there are those who believe that perhaps it was written in isolation – i think there were some comments about that. i understand that after a few years, but i would remind members of parliament that the convention had a very active group from parliament. they worked very hard. they were the representatives of the people, they were elected by the people, they were answerable to the people and i think the governments are too. you cannot have a constitution that is negotiated by 500 million people. you have to have their representatives doing it, and i think they did a good job on it. so sometimes that is the issue about legitimacy and democracy. i noted the points about fighting for the issues of human rights and values, and that this is what people are about, and not crime and drugs. the people i meet are far more concerned with both issues. they want to see that the rule of law, the rule of courts, the legal system protects everybody equally. however, they also want to see that those who are involved in criminality across borders and those who are engaged in criminal activity are dealt with. so if you are a supporter of human rights, then you are obviously a supporter of the constitution, because the charter for fundamental rights is the first time in europe that we have put all these things into the constitution so i think you should definitely be a strong advocate of the constitution. i think what is necessary for us now is not to try to renegotiate everything. with the german presidency coming up, the chancellor has clearly stated that she will set up a small group of officials to deal with a small group of officials in every country to identify where there are differences or difficulties. in my view, that should count 90% of the constitution out. the focus and the concentration and effort will then be on the remaining 10%. my colleague from ireland, mr de rossa, made a very fair point, one i have made several times, and it happened in the case of ireland and nice. the issue then is to try to get protocols to deal with the issues, that is the sensible thing: not throwing away parts of the constitution that have been agreed upon by parliament, by the council, by 18 countries across europe, but to try to find and accommodate the difficulties and analyse what the difficulties are in those countries which have voted ‘no’, or perhaps others which have reservations. that is not an impossible task. it has been done already in the countries where the constitution was lost. as stated earlier on, there were opinion polls looking into what those issues were and trying to deal with those issues. i think that is possible. if those issues are looked at in the igc or the council, it should be possible. i do not think it should take a long time. i would just ask parliament, and hope – as i will try to do in council – to keep supporting the constitution with the balanced view that we have to deal with a small number of outstanding issues as regards some countries and perhaps as regards countries that have declared their positions recently because of changes in governments. we should try to deal with that. if we can do that, then with the reason and purpose and the whole desire to have a european constitution – if that is what it is called; that is not something i get too excited about – we can move forward collectively to do that. i really believe it is possible. (applause)
i thank you, mr prime minister, for this speech, which i personally find very useful and pragmatic. the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the council and commission statements on the russia/european union summit.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 18th eu-russia summit was held last week in helsinki. as is the established practice, the summit discussed not only the four common eu-russia regions but also wider international issues. the meeting was also accompanied by a nordic dimension summit between the eu, russia, norway and iceland. we had a constructive and wide-ranging discussion on the key issues in eu-russia relations. as regards the forthcoming negotiations on a new eu-russia treaty, we noted that the eu's internal process to obtain a negotiating mandate had continued intensively over the past few weeks. the eu will continue to examine the mandate with a view to opening negotiations as soon as possible. in order to develop concrete cooperation, four meetings of the eu-russia permanent partnership council at ministerial level in the fields of transport, environment, justice and home affairs and in the foreign ministers' configuration were held during the autumn. as regards the common economic area, we noted positive developments in several areas of cooperation. the summit agreed on the payment and waiver of fees for flights over siberia. the eu and russia also noted the strong common interest and mutual dependence in energy relations. the european union has stressed the principles of transparency, predictability, reciprocity and openness in energy markets, investment and transit infrastructure. these principles should also be incorporated in the new eu-russia treaty. the union stressed that the parties should ensure their commitment to the principles of the energy charter. the discussions also covered the growth of trade and investment between the european union and russia, the solution of traffic congestion and the development of an electronic customs system, where we made concrete progress. we noted that the progress of russia's wto accession negotiations would have a significant positive impact on the eu-russia common economic area. negotiations on a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement between the eu and russia can be launched once russia has become a member of the wto. the environmental dialogue, which was strengthened at the eu-russia environmental partnership council in october, lays the foundations for a broad-based cooperation. in the area of justice and home affairs, cooperation has progressed in a number of sectors. we considered it of paramount importance to bring into force as soon as possible the agreements on visa facilitation and the readmission of illegal immigrants signed in may. the european union also called on the authorities of the member states to take all necessary steps to ensure that the situation in chechnya is brought under control and that the situation in chechnya is brought under control. the eu also highlighted the development of the rule of law and freedom of expression in russia and the conditions for independent media, including the investigations into the murder of anna politkovskaya and the case of mikhail khodorkovsky. the eu referred to the human rights consultations held in early november, which provided for a more in-depth discussion of these issues and the wider human rights situation in russia. the eu expressed its commitment to deepening cooperation in the field of human rights and developing human rights consultations. the european union and russia underlined the importance of direct contacts between citizens as the basis for a strategic partnership. this cooperation can be promoted in particular in the fields of education and culture. inter-university cooperation and student exchanges between the union and russia have been strongly emphasised during the autumn and will continue to be promoted in the future. we considered cooperation on international issues to be important for the security and prosperity of europe as a whole. we have seen a positive development in relations on a number of international issues. the eu and russia must develop cooperation in a more concrete way. the european council welcomed the progress made in the implementation of the lisbon strategy and the commission's efforts to achieve a more balanced and more effective implementation of the lisbon strategy. the eu-russia summit was accompanied by the northern dimension summit. the northern dimension summit adopted the new founding documents, political declaration and framework document for the northern dimension. with these decisions, the northern dimension will be renewed from the beginning of next year. the renewed northern dimension is a common policy of the four equal partners, the european union, russia, norway and iceland. the policy of the northern dimension covers a wide geographical area including the baltic sea, north-west russia and the arctic regions. the northern dimension supports the implementation of the four common areas between the eu and russia in this geographical area. in addition, the northern dimension focuses on issues specific to the northern regions, such as the vulnerable environment, indigenous peoples and health. a joint steering group of partners will be established for the northern dimension to accelerate practical cooperation. the existing partnerships in the northern dimension, namely the environmental and social and health partnerships, are to be continued and further developed. the aim is to explore the possibilities of applying the partnership model to the transport and logistics sector and to strengthen cooperation in the field of energy efficiency.
member of the commission. mr president, i am most grateful for the opportunity to inform you about the eu-russia summit, which took place in helsinki. this was the third eu meeting with president putin this year, following the one in sochi in may and the dinner in lahti, which gave us a good opportunity to speak about energy issues. like my colleague, i greatly welcome the fact that commission vice-president barrot and minister levitin were finally able to sign the protocol on siberian overflights. we have been working on this issue for many years and this is an important achievement, bringing an end to a persistent irritant in eu-russia relations. it was also one of our conditions for russia’s wto accession. therefore i warmly welcome this achievement and thank mr barrot for his efforts. immediately before the summit, we had a very good discussion on closer economic integration with eu and russian business leaders. they delivered a message of strong support for the benefits this would bring to the business communities on both sides. later, at the summit, there was a consensus that we should carry forward work on this subject over the coming months. our vision is the creation of a common economic area, essentially operating the same rules and providing for fair trade. on energy, president putin confirmed that the energy charter treaty would not be ratified as it stands, but he also clearly expressed willingness to come to a deal that would respect the interests of both sides and include the principles of the energy treaty, as he said in sochi. he called for reciprocity, including access for russian capital to key strategic industries in the european union. it is unfortunate that it was not possible to announce the opening of negotiations for our new strategic agreement. however, i am confident that the remaining difficulties will be resolved shortly. president barroso made it clear, after the inspection carried out by officials of our food and veterinary office, that we consider that the ban on certain polish exports is not proportionate. he pressed president putin strongly to lift it and, in any case, to agree to tripartite talks between poland, russia and the commission to settle this issue. president putin made it clear that the issue was not polish meat as such, but the transit of meat from other countries through poland to russia. finally, as far as the new agreement is concerned, it was reconfirmed, vitally, that there will be no legal vacuum when the current agreement reaches the end of its initial ten-year period. even though we have not yet started negotiations for an agreement, we can continue and we have a legal basis. another important issue already mentioned tonight is that of the long queues of vehicles waiting to enter russia at eu borders. we agreed to give urgent attention to that. a mission involving the commissioner for taxation and some member states had already taken place at the various borders between russia and the member states. we all noted that the origin of this problem was the growth in trade, namely the increase in trade between the eu and russia, on the one hand, and the overall increase of trade with russia, including transiting, on the other. but the infrastructure is already at maximum capacity and russian procedures are cumbersome. for instance, there are currently seven security procedures, which mr putin has promised to reduce to two. that is very important. for its part, the commission will shortly be making proposals in its report to address some of these customs issues. we also offered to cooperate on a pilot project. the question is whether data can be dealt with on the basis of a computer-based system. there was also a generally positive assessment of cooperation on freedom, security and justice. the russian side said that the agreements on visa facilitation and readmission would be sent for ratification soon. this is very positive, because readmission also helps the european union. i would like to express my appreciation for the parliamentary cooperation committee’s input on kaliningrad. on this matter, russia raised the future of the lithuanian scheme for cost-free visas, aluminium export duties and the treatment of minorities in latvia and estonia. we made it clear that these issues have either already been resolved or, in the case of visas for visitors from kaliningrad to lithuania, can be addressed. on external security, the european union pressed for more cooperation in the common neighbourhood, while russia emphasised non-proliferation and disarmament, particularly with regard to iran and north korea. president barroso outlined progress towards meeting the kananaskis commitments. it was agreed that new ways to cooperate on crisis management should be pursued. we also raised concerns regarding the human rights situation in russia, notably the killing of mrs politkovskaya. president barroso indicated that the perceived lack of due process caused concern in the european union. as requested by the president of parliament and other honourable members, he also raised the case of mikhail khordorkovsky. president putin defended the situation in russia. i will not repeat the comments made by the presidency on foreign policy issues other than to note the importance we attach to cooperation at the united nations on iran, to promote the six-party talks on north korea and to work with russia in the middle east through the quartet. russia asked for an urgent meeting of the quartet, which we hope will take place before christmas. we also need to work intensively to reduce our differences on georgia and kosovo, on which an exchange of views was held. finally, as my colleague said, the special northern dimension summit took place for the first time. it was a success and i welcome russia’s involvement in that overall idea.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, relations and discussions between europe and russia resemble surrealism or a woody allen film. two things at once. or polish meat is bad, in which case mr putin is right and that meat must not continue to be distributed in europe. or the polish meat is good, in which case it can be distributed in europe and what mr putin and russia are doing is not right and sanctions must be taken against them. it's not a question of whether or not it's true, it's just true or not true. secondly, on human rights, mr putin, with his angelic face of a kgb-trained judoka, keeps telling us: "i have nothing to do with this". assassinations are taking place all over europe, a woman is murdered in moscow, a former kgb agent is murdered in london and mr putin repeats: "i had nothing to do with this". it is obvious that it was mr khodorkovsky who, from his prison, organised the assassination of mrs anna politkovskaya and it was mr lebedev who, from his prison, organised the assassination of the former kgb agent. only one thing is certain, the laws voted in the duma are laws that were voted by mr putin's party, with the effect that the opposition no longer has the right to speak, that non-governmental organizations no longer have the right to express themselves, that the european foundations no longer have the right to exist. and, on this subject again, mr. putin tells us: "i have nothing to do with these stories, i was at a conference in paris, london, or i don't know where and i don't know what is voted in the duma". we're not to be taken for fools. i hope we don't want a cold war. nobody wants the cold war, but between not wanting a cold war and accepting that a public politician lies to us all the time and about everything, there is a margin: either mr putin chooses to be polite and answer questions or we choose a different tone with mr putin. we need his energy, but we don't need someone who's always making fun of us. (applause) i would like to thank
the most severe today towards russia are often those who have long denied the existence of the gulag, the totalitarian nature of communism and the threat of soviet imperialism. for 74 years, the communists trampled on the most basic freedoms and solidarities, even forcing children to denounce their parents. it is no wonder that, after this nightmare, russian democracy is not yet perfect. neither are ours. in france, for example, the national front, which represents more than 15% of the electorate, has no representatives in the national assembly and the ruling parties want to prevent its candidate, jean-marie le pen, from standing in the presidential elections. unlike turkey, which brussels europe wants to welcome, russia is a european nation in its own right. our peoples are united by the same christian-hellenic roots, but unfortunately they are also united by the same threats: birth control and immigration, materialism and islamism. it is now time to unite, beyond the line of division of theodosius, the eastern and western branches of our civilization, to reconcile the heirs of st. benedict with those of st. cyril.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 26 september the european commission presented its report on romania's progress towards accession. it is now up to parliament to decide. this is an important moment as we are coming to the end of a process which sees the last enlargement wave coming to an end. this is not the beginning of the next wave, but the end of the fifth. it is a moment of great historical significance, as it marks the reunification of the european continent. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the commission in particular, and first of all commissioner rehn, who has worked very seriously and rigorously throughout this process and with whom cooperation has been excellent and easy over the past two years. my report does not fail to commend him. i also extend my warmest thanks to all my colleagues who have contributed greatly to improving and completing my previous reports. i would like to thank in particular my colleagues on the committee on foreign affairs and also other bodies in parliament for their often pertinent comments and suggestions. the spirit of this report is in line with the spirit of previous reports, since the text is positive, encouraging and open, while remaining, i hope, demanding and balanced. it also closely follows the conclusions of the commission in its september 2006 report. for me, things are clear, romania was not ready in 2004. she has since made considerable efforts; it has implemented an impressive stream of modernising reforms. it was important to emphasize this warmly and, following mr van orden, i too want to welcome romania, as he did bulgaria. in substance, it is a short report which focuses on two points in particular: the date of accession and the accompanying measures and follow-up envisaged by the commission. the report is structured around six main questions. first of all, the report commends the romanian authorities for the great progress made since the beginning of the process. the reform effort undertaken by the government and the incumbent authorities has been extremely important, everyone agrees, so it was necessary to emphasize this in our resolution. the commission then recommended last september that romania should join by 1 january 2007. my report supports this conclusion, which i have been calling my wish for some time. the text also stresses that substantial progress has been made in the areas identified as problematic in the commission's may report. it also recalled that three areas were identified by the commission in september as requiring further progress, namely the reform of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and, to a lesser extent, the absorption of union aid in the agricultural sector, the absorption of the structural funds and the application of the acquis communautaire in certain areas of food security. fifthly, the report supports the commission's proposal to set up accompanying measures to monitor progress in these areas on the basis of a list of identified objectives. such measures were applied during the previous enlargement and this was to the benefit of all parties. the aim is not to stigmatize or isolate the country, but rather to support it in its efforts to consolidate the reforms under way. finally, on the last question, my report urges the romanian government to take all necessary measures and to make full use of the time remaining before accession in order to avoid recourse to safeguard clauses. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the general structure of the report. only five amendments were tabled for the plenary, which i believe reflects the broad consensus that has emerged around this text, the consensus that we have worked towards in the various committees. my group will not give voting instructions for amendments nos 1 and 2 by mrs gibault and mr cavada. these amendments are, however, in line with a written declaration signed by over 400 members, including myself. so, personally, i will vote for them, but my group's position will be expressed through a free vote. my group will support amendment no 5 by the gue/ngl on romania's efforts to join and will vote against amendment no 4 by the same group which is already covered in the report. as regards amendment no 3, my group will abstain. this, ladies and gentlemen, is the fruit of work which i have been doing for less than two years, and which was begun by others, notably mrs nicholson, who was the rapporteur before me. i am happy to hand over the fruits of this work to you, because in the end, over these years, i have always taken the same position. we have a common destiny. romania and bulgaria belong in the european union. you have to move forward, so you have to be friendly but demanding. i believe that the european parliament's position, in line with the commission's position, was the right one because it allowed the necessary reforms to be carried out and because, at the same time, it enabled us to achieve our common objective: the accession of romania and bulgaria on the date set. i think we should welcome this moment as another moment on the road to european reunification. i hope that the consensus we have all worked for will be reflected in an unambiguous vote by the european parliament. i would like the message that will reach romania tomorrow to be clear, if possible expressed massively, audible, positive followed by a warm and sincere welcome. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, in the debate we are having at the moment, it is important not to mix all the genders, not to mix all the responsibilities. we are at the level of the european union, so we must highlight the means at our disposal at this level in order to be able to contribute to the best possible solution of problems of this kind, in the metallurgy or in other branches of activity. there are, as you said, commissioner, two aspects to this. on the one hand, there are the companies, and if we want to maintain employment at eu level in the long term, we need high performing companies. on the other hand, there are the employees who need help. our european union, through the erdf, the esf and, i hope, very soon the emf, has the means to help each worker individually with training, with help to return to work, with help to set up businesses. this individual assistance from the european union, commissioner, must be highlighted in the media during your communications so that our fellow citizens can feel the action of the european union. and, as you said, speed and responsiveness are absolutely necessary. if certain sectors of the automobile industry - today volkswagen - need our funds, the important thing is to help the workers very, very quickly so that our aid really bears fruit and enables them to find a job quickly.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i should like to begin by welcoming the presence in the gallery of a large delegation of workers from the forest volkswagen plant and the heads of all the company's trade unions and subcontracting companies. (applause) i would like to thank my group went in large numbers yesterday to the occupied factory and held lengthy talks with the workers and the trade union representatives. what did he get out of it? the first requirement, commissioner, is to save jobs on the site. the european union is seriously lacking in industrial policy. the crisis in the european automobile industry is not new, as mr jonckheer has just reminded us: vilevorde was ten years ago and since then other sites have been affected or threatened. what has been done in terms of research policy, investment policy, balanced regional development policy, training policy and job security policy, both to prepare the clean, safe and affordable car required today and to diversify the economic fabric and the supply of stable, skilled and well-paid jobs? the big companies have been left in the lurch in the name of the holy sacrament of an open market economy where competition is free. in the immediate future, therefore, it is the duty of everyone, including the european union, to mobilize to save jobs at the forest site, both for the employees of the group and for the 8 000 workers of the subcontracting companies. my colleague jacky henin will be with you in a moment. secondly, if, despite this mobilisation, the question of compensation arises, the volkswagen group will have to be called upon to assume its responsibilities fully. the trade union leaders reminded us in detail of the long list of public aid in the form of various exemptions which has been granted to this plant by a group which has also been showing sharply rising profits for two years, strong enough in any case to announce yesterday hundreds of millions of investment in asia. the european union must also contribute to this compensation. but the crux of the matter, in our view, lies in the structural changes to be made to the economic strategy implemented in the name of what the commission calls a competitive europe in a globalised economy, which, more prosaically, means reduction of wage costs, flexibility of working conditions, shareholder value, i.e. bonuses to shareholders, competition for workers, blackmail in relocations. this is the heart of the so-called liberal europe, in which, for good reason, more and more europeans no longer recognize themselves. only a break with these guidelines can open the way to a social europe and allow us to regain the confidence of our fellow citizens. mr barroso often advocates a europe of results. the present europe leads to the volkswagen forest result. we do not have enough europe, a trade unionist told us yesterday, but we need another europe. i am sure that this demand will be heard loudly in the streets of brussels on saturday. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, every day that passes sees the automobile sector cutting hundreds of jobs. the multinational corporations put tremendous pressure on the workers. they try to make them feel guilty by questioning their rights, by presenting them as almost wealthy. never in the last 50 years have they been so productive and precarious. never in the last 30 years have their purchasing power been so low. it is not the competitiveness of workers that is the problem of the automobile industry, but the movement of capital in search of maximum profitability in minimum time. the motoring groups are blackmailing to get the most out of the territories they are setting up and once they have finished looting the local finances, they go elsewhere if the sun shines more. it is high time that this parliament stopped being content with empty words and took strong initiatives to defend europe's industrial potential, to hit the profiteers with what they love, the portfolio, to guarantee workers the right to genuine job/training security, these are some of the ideas contained in the charter that my group is putting forward to defend and develop our automobile industry.
mr president, the european social model, the lisbon strategy, social europe: what meaning can we still give to these words which are nothing but dust in the eyes of the volkswagen employees and their families? precariousness has become the norm, competition between employees a mode of management, like dismissal or unemployment. an ever-increasing number of workers accept conditions of permanent precariousness because they have no choice. europe was built on peace; the social war is being fanned with the dramatic consequences of this distress: a growing distrust of europe and a push to the extreme at every election. we are not going to allow the creation of a factory in india to be announced by a group which is simultaneously planning to create 4,000 jobs, more than 10,000 jobs, with impunity, right at the doorstep of our institutions. european funds will have to be mobilised, including the new globalisation adjustment fund. we shall ensure that this is done, and why not by tabling a volkswagen amendment. it is high time that workers were respected in europe, in the european parliament, on our doorstep.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, the volkswagen forest case is, of course, one of the cases that has accompanied the market economy throughout its history. i think that if we want to ensure employment, the lisbon strategy is the right choice, because the strategy has its fundamental and deepest meaning in being competitive on the basis of the best knowledge and producing good quality jobs. i think this strategy is the right one and it needs to be implemented. the other question is how to respond effectively to the situation that has arisen at volkswagen. it is clear that there are different responsibilities at the level of enterprises, at the level of local authorities, at the level of the national state and at the level of the european union. all these capacities should be mobilised accordingly. i am pleased that the european union institutions have responded promptly and, in my view, effectively, i.e. they have made available their resources to respond in an appropriate and effective manner. it is also clear that social dialogue plays a very important role. i am informed that negotiations are under way within the framework of the social dialogue at the company, and i consider this an important moment. it is clear that if europe is to preserve and have its effective social face, it is essential that the legislation in force in this field be respected. the commission has therefore launched an investigation into whether the relevant directives are strictly respected. i assume that's what's going to happen, which will be in the best interest of solving this case. ladies and gentlemen, in this debate there has been a whole range of ideas and proposals which are conceived from different angles and presented from different perspectives. it is clear that we have our responsibilities under the treaty and the existing european structure. i am sure that each case will open up a discussion that can lead to improvements in the legal framework, to changes in our processes and in our ways of responding, all of which are examples of a functioning and developing europe. let me go back to the beginning. at this point, it is necessary to mobilize the means at our disposal. this is already happening at european level.
president of the council. the decision-making process on the future financial instruments of the european union during the finnish presidency is coming to an end. we have managed to deal with this matter in a very good spirit and to adopt the bulk of the regulations on new financial instruments. the commission has also been able to take part in the negotiations with the united states, japan and the european union. we have another challenge ahead of us, the adoption of a regulation on the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr). the issue is important both for parliament and for the member states, as it is a matter of promoting the fundamental values enshrined in the treaty on european union. parliament and its members have a special expertise in democracy and human rights issues, which has helped to achieve a good outcome. the draft regulation on a new global human rights instrument has been prepared in a very tight timetable. the member states, along with parliament, have made numerous proposals on the content of the regulation. it is very positive that we have already succeeded in reaching a common position on almost all the issues in these negotiations. the council, for its part, unanimously adopted a compromise text which gives the presidency the mandate to consult parliament in order to find a solution. the presidency's objective is to secure a first reading. the reason for this is clear to all. the current instrument for democracy and human rights expires in a few weeks, at the end of the year. we do not want to see a major break in the european union's support for democracy and human rights. we are obliged to find a solution quickly, not only because of the value of human rights and democracy for us europeans, but also because of the hopes and expectations of human rights and democracy defenders in various countries. the instruments have been prepared in such a way that they form the most functional unit. democracy and human rights activities are also implemented through other instruments, and a specific instrument on democracy and human rights complements this overall approach in specific areas. for this reason too, the adoption of the instrument before the start of the new financial period is highly justified. the council presidency strongly urges parliament to take decisions before the end of the year. the package adopted by the council contains a substantial number of parliament's amendments to the regulation, both as regards the priorities for the content of the aid and parliament's own role in implementing the instrument. a significant feature of the new regulation is that it recognises the importance of democracy work and, as part of this, places a stronger emphasis on the work of parliaments and parliamentarians. the key to our action in third countries is to rely on international human rights conventions and the rights and obligations enshrined in them. the proposed regulation will broaden the eligibility criteria for eu support for different operators. it is good that we are able to take account of the diversity of human rights and democracy activities and to use different means flexibly in different situations. the financial resources of the instrument also appear to be increasing somewhat compared to the current financial period, so that the entry of new players is not necessarily excluded from other players. the key idea behind the creation of the instrument has been to allow support to be given in particular to civil society actors and to allow support to be given in situations where it is done without the explicit consent of the government of the country concerned. it is important that this starting point be maintained until the end and that forms of support for other operators within the regulation are not increased too much. the council's compromise proposal extends the eligibility criteria for support to parliaments and political foundations, in line with the european parliament's proposals. the draft regulation also allows for the eligibility of other operators in specific situations. i think it is a well thought out solution, one which takes account of the wishes and the opposition of the various actors in the european union and is capable of acting. parliament wanted to highlight the specific feature that support under this instrument, which is mainly aimed at civil society actors, can also be granted without the consent of the government of a third country. this principle has been the subject of agreement between the council and parliament from the outset. i believe that we have now also succeeded in finding a way of stating the principle in a more precise and clearer way, taking into account both the treaty of the union and our international treaty obligations. the presidency is prepared to propose the inclusion of the principle in the first recital if agreement on the content of the whole regulation is reached at first reading. parliament also took note of the inclusion in the regulation of the rights of migrants, asylum seekers and internally displaced persons. the text of the regulation takes as a starting point international human rights conventions. it can therefore be considered as already including this point. however, the presidency is prepared to refer this amendment to the council if the regulation as a whole can be adopted at first reading. the council, for its part, is therefore prepared to show even more flexibility in order to find a solution before the end of the year. the flexibility of all parties is a prerequisite for a solution to emerge. the european parliament's committee report proposes that political groups should be included in the scope of the aid. this would include political parties, so that it would also be a matter of financial support for the activities of parties operating in third countries. the democratic parties undoubtedly have an important role to play in strengthening democracy and human rights throughout the world. it is very important that the union's support under this human rights instrument is based on clear principles and is based in principle on internationally agreed human rights principles. the resources of this instrument are far from sufficient to create a general party subsidy, which is granted to all on the same basis, as is the case in many european countries. the selection of individual parties for support would be a very challenging task in terms of finding a clear criteria. this choice should be made in such a way that it does not give the impression that any partisan consideration would override democratic and human rights considerations in the selection of support. it is also clear that in this respect too, an increase in the number of beneficiaries may mean a reduction in the number of others. the main aim of the aid is to target ngos working for democracy and human rights. the presidency's compromise proposal has taken into account, among other things, parliament's proposals to include independent party foundations and national, regional and international parliaments among the beneficiaries. article 9 (2) of the regulation allows for the granting of aid in specific cases to operators other than those referred to in this article. the formulation is largely in line with parliament's wishes and is flexible, allowing for the resolution of problems during the financial period. the requirement to add political groups to the text of the regulation is not acceptable to the council for the reasons mentioned above. this could jeopardise the adoption of the whole regulation at first reading and create a situation in which the european union's action on democracy and human rights would not have a legal basis for the time being. the freezing of all human rights and democracy support in the european union to solve this case would be a very powerful weapon. the council has gone very far in its own way against parliament. it is very important to include and maintain the support of the member states for this set of regulations in order to find a solution. i hope that parliament will be flexible so that we can achieve our main objective together. our main objective is that the european union can continue to support democracy and human rights activities through this new instrument, also next year. in order to ensure the continuity of this support, it is essential to reach a solution to the proposed regulation and to achieve it quickly.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i wanted to be brief so that we could conclude this debate. this financial instrument is indeed an important cornerstone of this comprehensive reform of the community's external aid system. i am very pleased that in a relatively short time we have succeeded in finding a common text for a regulation on human rights and democracy. i think that this instrument speaks in an exemplary way to the european union's unwavering commitment to democracy and human rights as an essential element of external relations. the european parliament is an extremely important partner for us as the commission. we therefore fully support our declaration on democratic control and the coherence of external action. we will therefore be in regular dialogue with parliament. in a particularly precarious situation of human rights and democracy, which requires rapid action by the community, i propose that we also hold talks at short notice with a small group of members representing the relevant parliamentary committees. the presidency of the council has just said that it has been involved in lengthy negotiations and that in these negotiations it has drawn up a compromise proposal which, in our view, represents a comprehensive balance between the expectations placed on this new financial instrument. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the treaty of rome. this is as much about the democratic reform process as it is about the comprehensive protection of human rights. the eu is also committed to supporting and protecting human rights defenders, but without neglecting the victims of torture and ill-treatment. it also creates a special basis for successful election observation, for which i am very grateful, without using the available resources disproportionately. i can only welcome this instrument and the greater flexibility which now also allows for quick orientation and quick reaction. we shall take particular care in this respect to ensure that individuals, but also legal and non-legal associations, can be addressed. we will use all the means available under the financial regulation and the implementing rules to be flexible. i agree with the parliament's proposals to focus more on the specific nature of support in the recitals, irrespective of the consent of the public authorities, but also to point out that the rights of migrants, asylum seekers and internally displaced persons, for example, should be considered covered by the instrument. i am sorry to say, but i do not see, as does the council, any scope for including political parties and political movements as direct beneficiaries of financial assistance. i believe that the presidency of the council and parliament - with our support and that of the commission - have reached a very good compromise after lengthy discussions, namely to include national parliaments in the circle of potential recipients of foreign aid. i consider this to be objectively justified insofar as the objectives of the instrument are precisely the creation, promotion and strengthening of participatory and representative democracy, including parliamentary democracy, and the corresponding processes of democratization. i would also like to see the possible financing of foundations as a way of bridging our difficulties. the most important thing for us has been that we, as the commission, have been able to be neutral and impartial in community aid. we have a great advantage in this respect and we must maintain it in the future. this is the reason for the high acceptance and potential of our aid in third countries. so we should not deviate from that here either.
the committee mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since september my co-rapporteur and i have been negotiating with the council and the commission to put forward parliament's position on the european financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world. the negotiations are now closed and, as has just been said, the council adopted a common position last week based on a compromise text. this text, which we have already largely tabled in the form of amendments, covers most of parliament's requests. it states that the use of this instrument does not require the agreement of the governments of third states. it allows funding for unregistered organisations. it includes a flexible mechanism for direct support to human rights defenders at risk. this new mechanism should make our work to protect those who work for freedoms much more effective. the compromise also contains a whole section on the promotion of democracy, democratic processes and parliamentary democracy. the political foundations and also the national parliaments, and this is an element introduced by our parliament, are explicitly mentioned among the eligible actors. the protection of human rights also covers almost all of parliament's requests, with the exception of explicit references to the fight against impunity and conflict prevention. on the other hand, the rights of disabled people, corporate social responsibility, the fight against violence against women and many others have been integrated. parliament also secured the establishment of a comprehensive dialogue mechanism which involves it in the development of strategic priorities. we would have liked to have had it in the text, but the compromise was to codify it by an exchange of letters. as regards an explicit reference to democratic political groups, the council, as has just been said, considers that this is a red line for it. it was therefore not possible to introduce explicit references to their support. however, flexibility has been introduced in the text to allow for the financing, in duly justified cases, of other actors. thus, in certain situations, support may be given to political groups without explicit mention. in conclusion, mr president, i should like to stress the uniqueness of this instrument. it is the only one to finance projects of non-state actors without requiring prior authorization from their government. it is also the only instrument financing election observation missions. the delay in adopting it, and therefore the funding of these projects in the vain hope of introducing an explicit reference to political groups, would therefore be neither useful nor responsible. the persistence in wanting to do so has already led us to lose the compromise reached with the council on the integration of the rights of migrants and asylum seekers. for these reasons, i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to confirm the compromise as negotiated with the council.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we should be proud to be members of the european union when we see its action in promoting democracy and human rights. these common values make the union a key player on the international scene in these matters. in this constant struggle, it was essential to reform the old instrument to make it more effective. it is thanks to the tenacity of the rapporteurs, mrs flautre and mr mcmillan-scott, whom i congratulate, that we have before us a text which shows real progress. it was an important instrument, and it had to be ambitious. this is particularly the case with references to the rights of migrants and the possibility of overriding the endorsement of third countries in order to promote democracy and human rights. i regret, however, that the negotiations have not led to the extension of the scope of this instrument to conflict prevention. in addition, despite the increased involvement of parliament in monitoring, the council's refusal to formalise relations between the two institutions on this subject is a defect. in conclusion, the effectiveness of this instrument will depend on its regular evaluation and review: parliament will have to play its full part in this, because i believe that this is a fight for a europe of values for a world without fear.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, some of the member countries of the world trade organisation do not respect basic social standards and make the non-respect of social rights an element of unfair competition and distortion of the rules of competition. beyond the european communication on decent work, how does the union influence the wto to ensure that the fundamental rights of workers in the acceding countries are respected? worldwide, 200 million children are engaged in paid work, 12 million people are in forced labour, more than two million workers die as a result of work accidents or occupational diseases and last year 145 trade unionists were murdered. in these circumstances, it is not surprising that our fellow citizens are afraid of globalisation. the declarations of good intentions are commendable but not sufficient. it is time to punish all those countries which take advantage of the opening up of markets but refuse to respect the conventions of the international labour organisation. europe must organise itself and weigh collectively in the wto so that the requirements of the international labour organisation are finally respected.
we have now finished with the one-minute speeches on important political questions.
the agenda calls for the debate on:- recommendation for second reading on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision on the seventh framework programme of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007-2013) (12032/2/2006 - c6-0318/2006 - 2005/0043 ((cod)) - committee on industry, research and energy (rapporteur: jerzy buzek) (a6-0392/2006); - report by philippe busquin, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in the implementation of the seventh framework programme of the european community and laying down the rules for the dissemination of research results (2007-2013) (com (2005) 0305 - c6-0705/2006 (cod)) - the report by anne laperrouze, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation (euratom) laying down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in the implementation of the seventh framework programme of the european atomic energy community and laying down the rules for the dissemination of research results (2007-2011) (com (2006) 0042 - c6-0080/2006 - 2006/0014 (cns)) (a6-0305/2006); - the report by mrs angelika niebler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme 'ideas' implementing the seventh framework programme (2007-2013) of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (com (2005) 0441 - c6-0382/2005 - 2005/0186 (cns)) (a6-0369/2006); - the report by mr vittorio prodi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme 'capacities' implementing the seventh framework programme (2007-2013) of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (com (2005) 0443 - c6-0384/2005 - 2005/0188 (cns)) (a6-0371/2006); - the report by mrs teresa riera madurell, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme 'cooperation' implementing the seventh framework programme (2007-2013) of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (com (2005) 0440 - c6-0381/2005 - 2005/0185 (cns)) (a6-0379/2006); - the report by mr david hammerstein mintz, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision concerning a specific programme to be implemented by means of direct actions by the joint research centre under the seventh framework programme of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007 to 2013) (com (2005) 0439 - c6-0380/2005 - 2005/0184 (cns)) (a6-0335/2006); - the report by mr daniel caspary, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme to be implemented by means of direct actions by the joint research centre under the seventh framework programme (2007-2011) of the european atomic energy community (euratom) for nuclear research and training activities (com (2005) 0444 - c6-0385/2005 - 2005/0189 (cns)) (a6-0357/2006) and - the report by mr umberto guidoni, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme implementing the seventh framework programme (2007-2001) of the european atomic energy community (euratom) for nuclear research and training activities (com (2005) 0454 - c6-038/2005 - 2005/0619 (cns)) (com (2005) 0336/2005)
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, minister lehtomäki, this evening and tomorrow at midday are important hours for europe and european science. with your vote tomorrow, you, the members of this parliament, will demonstrate that the europe of research is alive and kicking. we have worked hard together over the past year so that europe’s researchers can start working and making the best of the opportunities the new framework programme will offer them. together, we have succeeded in delivering a framework programme that meets the objectives we set at the very beginning: ambition and excellence, a good balance between continuity and novelty and a strong basis for simplified rules and procedures. and, on top of this, we are delivering framework programme 7 on time. we succeeded in doing this despite some difficult circumstances, such as a late agreement on the financial perspectives and a rich debate on delicate ethical issues. we succeeded because we all share the strong conviction that cooperation in research lies at the heart of the successful knowledge society that we want europe to be: a europe that delivers growth and jobs and a good standard of living. the timely adoption of the ambitious fp7 will send a strong message to the scientific community, to industry and to the public at large. the message is: let us not lose time. let us work together and realise europe’s potential for excellence. i would like to pay tribute to the members who have made all this possible: the rapporteur for framework programme 7, mr buzek, the rapporteur for the rules of participation, mr busquin, and, for the part concerning euratom, ms laperrouze; the rapporteurs for the seven specific programmes, ms riera madurell for cooperation, ms niebler and mr ehler for ideas, mr pirilli for people, mr prodi for capacities, mr guidoni for euratom, mr hammerstein mintz on the ec direct actions of the joint research centre, mr caspary on the euratom direct actions of the joint research centre, and the long list of shadow rapporteurs and other members who have been deeply involved. our cooperation has been greatly facilitated by the skilful chairmanship of mr chichester. i learned a lot from him and would like to thank him. i would also like to acknowledge the hard work and good company of all the presidencies involved in the adoption of the programmes. i would especially like to thank the finnish presidency for its constructive role in the final phase of the process. our negotiations have produced a solid and broad consensus among the three institutions on the main aspects of the framework programme 7 package. we have moved forward considering every single act as part of the same package, ensuring full political coherence within the overall package. you are more than familiar with the framework programme 7 and its content. i will therefore limit my remarks to some key issues. first, mr buzek’s report on the framework programme 7, second reading. a lot of work has gone into reaching a balanced agreement the three institutions can agree on. i would like to express a heartfelt ‘thank you’ to the rapporteur for his openness and constant collaboration. the commission accepts all elements of the agreement reached following the tripartite meetings. in particular, i would like to mention some of the most important issues on which we finally reached a proper balance. firstly, the mid-term review and future decisions on the european research council, the appointment of its members and its administrative costs. the commission has also issued a declaration on this. secondly, the strengthened focus on renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, to which more than half the energy priority budget will be devoted. i am particularly satisfied with the level of attention to be paid to energy efficiency in all thematic priorities. the commission has also made a declaration on this. thirdly, the redistribution of the budget in favour of the cooperation, ideas and people programmes and, within the cooperation budget, in favour of health, energy, socio-economic sciences and humanities, and security. fourthly, the approach for the release in two steps of the budget destined for the risk sharing finance facility. on the issue of european union funding for human embryonic stem cell research, i believe we have agreed a very responsible ethical framework for a research programme covering so many different countries. it continues the ethical framework of framework programme 6, which has proved successful in practice. the commission has made an extensive declaration on this ethical framework, which will be published in the official journal as part of the framework programme 7 package. the commission will fully respect and strictly implement this declaration, which i consider to be an integral part of the agreement on framework programme 7. accordingly, the commission will not fund projects that include research activities which destroy human embryos, including for the procurement of stem cells. the exclusion of funding of this step of research will not prevent community funding of subsequent steps involving human embryonic stem cells. even if article 6(3) of the decision on framework programme 7 refers to derivation, the commission will not fund derivation that involves destroying a human embryo. the agreement on ethics reflects a careful and responsible balance. the commission calls on the european parliament not to jeopardise this balance by any further amendment. i now come to the seven specific programmes, which set out the details of the two framework programmes for research. to a large extent, the modifications of the commission’s proposals were concerned with transposing the provisions of the agreed framework programme into the specific programme texts. following these changes, the final draft presidency texts on the specific programmes include a welcome mixture of parliament’s requests and the council’s own reflections, making these texts perfectly compatible with the commission’s position. for the specific programme on cooperation, parliament’s amendments being put to the vote are, generally speaking, coherent with the framework programme text and largely acceptable. this is also thanks to the excellent work of the rapporteur, ms riera madurell. it was not an easy task to deal with such a broad range of fields with important research challenges. let me just mention as an example of our strong cooperation the agreement reached on renewables and energy efficiency. for the ideas programme, the european parliament’s main concerns, as reflected in the amendments and discussed intensively during the tripartite meetings, have been taken into account. due consideration has been given, in particular, to: the ceiling on the administrative costs of the total budget; questions related to the management staff of the european research council; a clearly defined approach to the process of selection, term of office and renewal of the members of the scientific council; the reference to the review of erc structures and mechanisms and the possibility of the scientific council appointing a secretary-general. once more, thanks to the rapporteur ms niebler and to mr ehler for their constructive work. for the people programme, the current presidency text has taken on board a number of parliament’s amendments, which are fully acceptable to the commission. i would highlight in particular those that refer to the importance of encouraging youngsters to enter the research profession, of helping them with a more stable career path, and making full use of women’s potential. i offer all my thanks for the support given by the rapporteur, mr pirilli. on the capacities specific programme, let me highlight some of those amendments that really improved the commission’s original proposal. i am referring, in particular, to those clarifying the role of rtd performers for activities under research for the benefit of smes and the introduction of mechanisms for cooperation with national and regional r&d support programmes. concerning research potential activities, the addition of the reference to the associated countries clarifies and emphasises the eligibility of entities from these countries to participate in the actions supported under this specific programme. the constant and useful support received from the rapporteur, mr prodi, has been really appreciated. on the ec joint research centre specific programme, i am glad to see that parliament supports the priorities of the jrc as indicated in the specific programme. i agree with the majority of the amendments tabled, which are aimed at better defining the jrc mission in relation to its different activities. in particular, i agree to the request regarding the role that the jrc could play in providing a sustainable energy reference system and information on the reliability of the energy supply for europe, as well as on the availability of renewable energy resources. thank you for your excellent work, mr hammerstein mintz. regarding the euratom specific programme, the text is broadly acceptable with some minor exceptions. thank you to the rapporteur, mr guidoni, for his strong support for the commission’s proposal. let me open a parenthesis here just to say that the iter project has been of paramount importance. i must say that i feel fortunate to have been directly involved. last week, i had the honour of taking part in the ceremony in paris and, as i said there, i am confident that ‘hard winds grow strong trees’. i also thought of you, mr busquin, at that moment. on the euratom joint research centre specific programme, i am pleased to see that the european parliament and the council support the commission’s approach and that the proposed amendments improve the commission proposal. and i share the request expressed by the parliament that "in view of the threat of a loss of knowledge and a lack of new scientists and engineers in the area of nuclear technology,[...] the jrc will implement a programme aimed at retaining knowledge, ensuring that this knowledge is readily available, properly organised and well documented." once more, thanks for the support received from the rapporteur, mr caspary. let me now turn to the reports by mr busquin and ms laperrouze on the ec and euratom rules for participation respectively. the commission is very grateful to the european parliament and, in particular, to the rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs and other members of the itre committee for their constructive attitude and strong commitment to reaching a good compromise with the council, allowing the adoption of the ec framework programme 7 rules for participation at first reading. this follows the welcome precedent established under framework programme 6 and i am confident that this cooperation will continue in the future. the euratom rules will follow the same principles as those agreed for the ec rules, taking into account the necessary adjustments due to the specificities of the framework programme 7 euratom framework programme. concerning the busquin and laperrouze reports, the commission can accept all elements of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council. there is no doubt that the final text provides for significant improvements to the original commission proposal. i would like to highlight the following elements of the agreement on the rules for participation. firstly, the coverage and calculation of indirect costs, in particular the flat rate introduced for non-profit public bodies, universities, research organisations and smes. this flat rate is now fixed at 60% for the first three years (2007-2009) and thereafter the commission shall establish a new flat rate reflecting an approximation of the real indirect costs of participants, but not lower than 40%. you have been very persuasive in convincing both the council and the commission in this respect. secondly, the participants’ guarantee fund, which replaces collective financial responsibility, as it was known under fp6. this fund will be established by the commission and will serve as a basis for exempting from verification participants – with the exception of project coordinators – requesting less than eur 500 000 for a project. moreover, no additional guarantee or security may be requested from participants or imposed on them, which will particularly help smes and other small users. thirdly, the evaluation criteria will be clearly established in the framework programme 7 rules. fourthly, there is the clarification regarding the financial statements, where the compromise agreed reflects parliament and the council’s common goal of simplifying and limiting the number of certificates. fifthly, the 75% upper funding limit for security-related research in the case of the development of highly reliable capabilities has an impact on the security of european citizens and is aimed at a limited number of public users. parliament’s wish has been fully satisfied in this respect. finally, there are the access rights for european affiliates established in a member state or associated country, which they will enjoy if they are required to use their own foreground under the same conditions as the participant to which they are affiliated. i reiterate my warmest thanks for your excellent work, mr busquin and mrs laperrouze. before concluding, i would like to come to a topic that concerns at least some of you, as indicated by the amendments tabled. this concerns the participation of entities established in territories that are not internationally recognised. i understand that the aim is to exclude legal entities operating in the territories occupied by israel. since august 1996, israel has been fully associated to the framework programme for research and development. israel’s research bodies are today valued and active partners in the implementation of the framework programme. the commission has therefore recommended that the council should renew the association agreement for the lifetime of framework programme 7. the association agreements in combination with the rules for participation give legal entities established in israel the same rights and obligations concerning participation and funding as a legal entity established in a member state. only legal entities which are established within the internationally recognised territory of israel can be considered as such legal entities under the text of the rules for participation before you. legal entities established in the occupied territories cannot be considered as israeli legal entities as defined by the fp6 rules for participation and the association agreement. the commission will be very vigilant in this regard. let me conclude by saying that i have really appreciated these 19 months of intense work and friendly collaboration. many amendments have a special meaning for me, as they remind me of each of you, from mr liese’s interest in children’s disease to ms riera madurell’s and ms gutiérrez-cortines’s strong support for cultural heritage; from mr prodi’s strong defence of the european technology platforms to mr hammerstein mintz’s and mr turmes’s attention to renewable energy sources, and mr busquin’s strong support for the guarantee fund, to mention just a few. i believe our cooperation bodes well for the implementation of the seventh framework programme and for the continued development of ambitious research and innovation policies that europe needs and deserves. the debate today and the vote tomorrow herald the start of a new journey, one that i hope will see europe cross frontiers and reach new horizons. researchers will know that the european institutions are there to support them on this journey. yes, this evening and tomorrow at midday are truly important hours for europe and european science. we can truly be proud of what we have achieved and of the direction of the scientific journey on which we have embarked together for a better life for all europeans and for the whole of humanity. (applause)
i believe, commissioner, that the applause of this house at such a late hour reflects its total satisfaction with the work of the commission.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to commend the work done by my fellow rapporteurs and, more generally, by the three institutions to enable the 'research' package to be adopted swiftly. the seventh framework programme is the key tool for the realisation of the european research area with the objective of devoting 3% of gdp to research. it should increase synergies and complementarities between national policies and ensure greater coherence between the priorities of the member states and the broad lines to be defined by the european research council. despite a budget that is less substantial than the commission and parliament had hoped for, this framework programme must be appreciated for its leverage effect. to overcome the difficulties in accessing finance, especially for smes, the introduction of the financing and risk-sharing mechanism is a step in the right direction. the mechanism should make it possible to increase the number of loans granted by the european investment bank and financial institutions, to commit larger amounts and to support more risky projects. as regards the rules for the participation of the european atomic energy community in the seventh framework programme, my approach has been to work closely with mr busquin, rapporteur on the rules of the conventional rdp, in order to maintain the similarity of these two texts and thereby to take advantage of the codecision procedure. the compromise amendments which we are proposing to you are therefore the result of discussions between the commission, the council and parliament on mr busquin's report, and are adapted to the field of atomic energy. two amendments, however, differ from the council's position. we wanted to clarify the award criteria in amendment no 58, such as scientific excellence, the ability to carry out the action successfully, relevance to the objectives of the specific programme, the critical mass of resources, the quality of the plan for the exploitation and dissemination of the knowledge acquired. i would also draw your attention to amendment no 88 in this report, which some colleagues have asked for a separate vote. this amendment does not preclude the choice of barcelona as the seat of the joint undertaking. the location of the headquarters is clearly set out in council decision 2006/458 and we support it. the aim of this amendment is to ensure that the other activities planned under the fusion energy thematic area are implemented and managed separately from the joint undertaking, so that researchers can develop their creative potential. this separation would thus make it possible to maintain the integrated approach and the strong involvement of the fusion associations through, in particular, the european agreement for the development of fusion. during the trilogues with the commission and the council on the rules of participation, this issue was raised in order to clearly define the roles of each. this report on the rules of participation is designed to provide support at european level for research activities in the field of atomic energy, with the hope of removing the technological barriers to nuclear energy and, above all, of fulfilling the promise of fusion for the energy production of the future. i would like to thank mr busquin very sincerely for offering me his expertise and experience and for associating me with all the meetings on the negotiation of compromise amendments with the council and the commission. i should now like to conclude by making a few comments on the specific programmes which i have followed in particular on behalf of my group. as regards the direct actions of the joint research centre, it should be noted that its expertise has been extended to areas of high political and public interest, such as the development of alternatives to animal testing, social welfare, sustainable agriculture and environmental protection. in the field of atomic energy, we want the joint research centre to play a greater role in raising awareness and training on nuclear energy. we also want the joint research centre to contribute its expertise on the subject of nuclear non-proliferation. the specific cooperation programme must address social, economic and environmental challenges with themes such as health, energy, the environment and climate change. the number of amendments tabled by the european parliament is, for some, like a shopping list, which shows above all that a lot is expected of research. let us not forget the place and role of the european union in the world but above all in the lives of our fellow citizens. a successful framework programme will be proof that the european union is moving forward.
mr president, parliament has succeeded in its turnaround just in time to adopt the seventh framework programme and avoid a blank year for research. it also allows us to take up the most attractive of all bets: that of networked intelligence. the adoption of priorities linked to life such as health, energy and the environment, support for ict, the cross-cutting impact of all eu policies and the inclusion of smes, the driving force of competitiveness, are all positive developments, which are better guaranteed by the risk-sharing fund. finally, a vision of resources for the future that inspires confidence with the strengthening of the marie curie fellowships and the creation of the european research council. as the fictitious rapporteur for the ideas programme, i am pleased that the erc, which will be run by and for researchers, is a new form of scientific governance and co-decision. the european parliament has shown unity and responsibility. i also regret that the budget is not sufficient to catch up with our competitors in the united states and japan, which invest more than twice as much in research as we do. the council must hear our message in support of yours, commissioner. the merit of this framework programme is that it gives a human meaning to globalisation, and it is well worth the extra financial effort. let's make an appointment for the financial perspective review.
mr president, research cannot be done without men, which is why the research profession is becoming increasingly important and why we support the creation of a genuine european research area. this must be accompanied by the proper recognition of the research profession, because we need researchers, we need to train good researchers, we need to keep our researchers or to bring back those who have left european territory, or to bring in those from other countries who wish to join us. to this end, the procedures for access to marie curie fellowships must be simplified. a research approach more closely aligned with the lisbon objectives should be promoted, in particular by fostering bridges between universities and business. the effectiveness of aid and the use of public funds must also be monitored, and equality between men and women must be promoted. finally, the intellectual protection of not only the research results but also the individual researcher must be regulated. finally, we expect the european commission to provide us with the best possible information on the follow-up of this programme.
member of the commission. mr president, at this late hour, i wish to begin by thanking this house, on behalf of all the researchers in europe, for your words of support during this three-hour debate. many of you mentioned funding. unfortunately, we have lost the bet, because the number seven would be really lucky – seven years, seventh programme, eur 70 billion. in any case, we can still be proud of what we have achieved, because it is a serious increase. i have no doubt that the programme will be adopted tomorrow. then we can continue with our work for the future. firstly, on the question about fisheries, i would simply add that we now have theme no 2, named ‘food, agriculture, fisheries and biotechnology’. this was the last change that was made at the last debate, so it has been included. i should like to draw your attention to many important things that are part of our achievement. we will all have to consider in the future how the european research council is developing. it is a major thing for europe. it is a major breakthrough that for the first time we are able to gain sources together at eu level, finding excellence without political interference, including mine. that is a major change in thinking, which i hope will be a source of future decisions connected with the european research area. we have european technology platforms which go far beyond the framework programme and they have much more potential. we talk about public-private partnerships in joint technology initiatives, which will be a delicate but worthwhile exercise in the future. we will also have to monitor these closely. we will have to deal with a risk-sharing finance facility, which you mentioned, and i am fully aware that you are expecting simplified procedures, which will not be easy to achieve. i am committed to doing that, but i sincerely hope that i will have the support of all those who can help. unfortunately, i have learned that sometimes it is simply impossible to meet all expectations. if, on the one hand, you have private needs which seek fast solutions and, on the other hand, public money, you cannot come together 100%. we will do our best and we will try, but i just want to say that in some areas it is simply the logic of the work which does not fit 100%. we have a major success with the framework programme which we are putting on the table. however, the framework programme is only the foundation on which we have to build. we have to go beyond that. that is why i want to launch the debate on the european research area immediately. i have three major reasons for that. firstly, the area was launched in the same year as the lisbon agenda. that may be a coincidence, but i do not think so, because the european research area is the main part of lisbon thinking. secondly, in 2009 we shall be embarking on a new financial perspective debate. it will be more than a new financial perspective debate, it will be a debate about how the future europe should look. we should come into this debate with strong potential and only if we truly have a debate about european research area behind us will we be strong enough to show clearly that all the messages i have heard today are the right ones. also, the others will understand them. thirdly, when we talk about constitutional, institutional changes, we must be present at that debate. this debate will come alive soon and in this respect it is also important how the european research area and european research cooperation will be treated in future. those are enough good reasons when we will be dealing with international cooperation, funding, infrastructure facilities and many questions which concern what we have done up to now and how we can improve in the future. when we talk about the famous 3% that we all have in mind, let us be clear that we have two major challenges. one challenge is coming from the developed countries. here we are lagging behind in yearly funding for science and research. when we talk about the developing countries, it is not money that is the problem, but the pace, because they are making rapid progress. those are the two challenges we have to face. when we talk about 3%, we have to be clear that its composition is twofold: public financing and private financing. in a way, since we can make decisions directly, it is easier to handle public financing. however, it is not always easy to come to the figures like in fp7 we were like to, but still it is in direct political control. but when we talk about private financing, which normally consists of two-thirds in normal circumstances, we do not have direct control. here we can either go in through direct activities which are clearly linked to that, such as state aid, tax incentives, intellectual property rights, regulations, standardisation, lead market initiatives, public procurement, risk venture capital, and so on. however, if we are honest, then we have to take into account those things that are connected with competitiveness and the internal market. on higher education, if we do not make progress quickly, then higher education and universities in europe are really the engine behind everything: the labour and financial markets and, finally, the coherence between macroeconomic policies and structural policies which have to be in place. so when we talk about our issues, these are the issues of all the governments, the whole commission, the whole parliament. we cannot settle them alone. that is why we always have to look at the big picture and why the debate on which we have to embark in the future is that one. we have to build on a positive climate which i think we have in europe. we are now clearly devoting political attention to knowledge, research and development, but it is not important that we get it there, it is important that we keep it there. why? because only if we have constant strategic attention for a period of some years can we truly count on serious changes in europe. it is true that it is almost midnight but, if we work together, i am sure it is not too late. (applause)
it is rare, commissioner, that at midnight there are still so many members in the house. that is the significance of the debate we have just had for almost three hours. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the seventh framework programme for research is intended to be a tool for a fully-fledged, simplified research policy, more accessible to smes, and strengthening links between research and industry, among other things. he's almost there. concerns and questions remain, in particular on the participation of smes - access costs for participants, access to the risk-sharing financial instrument - coherence, without confusion with other community policies, the transmission of knowledge - quality, respect for intellectual property - the role of the member states in the governance of the programme. the duration of the programme - 7 years - also seems ill-suited to research objectives that may change rapidly, despite the planned stages and evaluations. we also regret that research on embryonic stem cells has not been banned and that parliament, like the council and the commission, is content with mere clarifications and restrictions on this subject. however, research, if it is the subject of a policy focused on excellence, is one of the few areas where the european union can really add value to national actions.
the agenda calls for the report by joel hasse ferreira, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market (com (2005) 0457 - c6-0312/2005 - 2005/0194 (cod)) (a6-0289/2006).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i am speaking specifically on behalf of mrs fourtou, who has been following this dossier for our group and has been held back by other obligations. mrs fourtou would like to thank in particular mr hasse ferreira for his work and her colleagues from the other political groups. he was pleased to work in a spirit of mutual listening and transparency. it has participated in the various informal trilogues and fully supports the rapporteur's approach. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. in fact, under the 2003 interinstitutional agreement, the three institutions committed themselves to better lawmaking and endorsed the importance of these tables. it seems that the council no longer wishes to honour this commitment. however, mrs fourtou thanks the rapporteur and the finnish presidency for also defending this point and, not wishing to block the procedure, she convinced our group to vote in favour of the compromise amendments and the report.
member of the commission. mr president, i should just like to thank the rapporteur and the members once again for their excellent work, and to say that we are looking forward to a first-reading agreement.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, since it is after midnight, at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the commission's declaration on patients' rights in the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the court of justice is increasingly called upon to arbitrate on the rights of patients when they are treated in another member state and the case law thus created could replace the democratic decision which our institutions must take on the subject. i therefore welcome the commissioner's initiative. i am afraid that the rights which you are asserting in your proposals will not be realised in reality, because there are not enough mechanisms in the member states. i wanted to ask you a few questions. how do you intend to implement the right to health for all, as you have mentioned, and equal access in the european union, given the differences in the level of health services and care structures in some member states? we have recently taken stock of breast cancer and we have been able to regret together that the european union's recommendations on prevention have not been followed up in some states, to the detriment of the patients concerned. on the question of obesity, you yourself indicated a few days ago that if self-regulation did not work, the european union would take legislative measures. there are also the proposals from members on the mental health issue and the possibility of having legislative measures. do you not think that the european union today must move forward on health issues? it must be more ambitious and, above all, it must boost health systems, without neglecting, of course, the issues that go along with health, because we know the negative effect that poor living conditions can have on health.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank the house for the debate. we have the opportunity to exchange views on different occasions, and this is a very important issue. i will be able to offer more specific replies after the end of the consultation process which, as i have already mentioned, is taking place now. however, all the issues mentioned by mr bowis and other colleagues – the right to treatment, patient safety, patient mobility – are not only part of this consultation process but also in different initiatives as well. as you know, we have these on patient safety for example or to deal with inequalities. part of the debate in this consultation process will also deal with the issue of quality and standards and whether we should introduce european union level standards on healthcare. those are part of the questions that we will be discussing. this is also linked to the serious problem of inequalities that exist on health, not just between member states, but even within member states. to a certain extent, patient mobility can address some of these problems, but this is not always the solution. the target should always be to raise as much as possible the level and the standard in the member states. whatever we discuss we should always bear in mind that patients would rather be treated at home where their families and friends are and where they speak the language. as to the tools, i believe we will be using all possible and available instruments. it is a complex issue that will require a comprehensive approach and there will be a package of measures, some of which will be legislation – when it comes to creating and offering legal certainty we need to resort to legislation. as i have said, it is a big and complicated issue that will require a step-by-step approach, but i am optimistic enough to hope that we will be able to present the first proposal before the end of next year. that will be just the first step. others will follow. finally, an important aspect of this process will be to create informed and empowered patients – informed as to treatment, medicine, the possibilities of cross-border healthcare and how to choose a physician. all these are important aspects, otherwise, all the other rights, unless we have an informed patient, will not be taken advantage of and will not be of benefit to the patient. this is also an important part of our initiative and effort. as i have said, we are now in the middle of the consultation process. today we have had our first ministerial reflection process specifically on this issue. we will continue the consultation process until the end of january and after that we will be able to discuss it in more detail with parliament as well. i am also looking forward to receiving parliament’s views on this issue in the consultation process. i consider this to be just the beginning of the debate and i expect to be able to go into more detail next year.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, you have rightly pointed out that, unfortunately, despite the still minimal progress made in terms of access to treatment, the disease is not receding. on the contrary, in our countries in particular, the epidemic has rather recovered. so we welcome the consensus that is emerging in this house on the need to completely revise the trips agreement on access to medicines, since the changes that were envisaged in the doha round unfortunately do not allow for real access to cheap medicines today. however, the problem of aids is not just a problem of funding and access to medicines. it can even be said that the emphasis, the spotlight on access to medicines has, no doubt, put in the background the need to promote prevention again and again, which is now also declining in our countries and everywhere else. it is therefore essential to resume these prevention and information campaigns by using the competent personnel, in particular through the media, as well as social and medical networks that make it possible to raise awareness among the population. second, to really change the situation, we also need -- you mentioned, and this is probably the hardest part -- to change cultural practices around sex, and in particular to protect women and allow women to protect themselves. women now make up 50 percent of the patients, which was not the case at the beginning of the epidemic, and they are affected in an extremely brutal and violent way by practices and abuses that take place in wartime in conflict zones, but not only: rape, prostitution, trafficking of women, sexual slavery of women, all plagues that contribute to the spread of the epidemic. the way in which the european union is promoting women's rights and equality is also a very effective way of combating the epidemic and of emphasizing mother-to-child transmission, which is not much talked about at the moment. there are innovative solutions, and i will cite the example of malawi, where, based on decentralisation, in such a way as to get as close as possible to the populations, and also by making the sick themselves play an active role - those who are stabilized - we achieve extremely positive results, even in countries that are extremely poor. so we have to go much further in all these areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is a step in the right direction. i would add that the fight against aids is also a matter of governance which must be dealt with at local level. let me remind you that in 2007, which is today, 50 percent of the world's population lives in cities. in many african cities, prevention and care require the involvement of local authorities to make them more adapted to local needs and to break social taboos, which are often very strong. we need to work directly with cities to help them manage their health services and to provide them with increased funding. i would have liked our resolution to have offered more concrete solutions on the ground. we could have asked the commission to encourage the supply of combined treatments, medicines combining three types of remedies in one capsule, which greatly simplifies the treatment of patients living in areas where there are few hospitals, doctors and laboratories. we must give priority to their use because, ladies and gentlemen, we have an urgent duty to fulfil the millennium development goals.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, first of all, let me thank and congratulate our rapporteur, pilar del castillo, for her excellent report, especially as it is based on clear themes to improve the follow-up of the lisbon strategy. and i think there is one point in particular which should be of particular concern to us, namely the review of the community patent. for too long we have been saying that it is essential that the promotion of innovation, as she said earlier, be harmonized at european level. now we need to be heard. we are talking about better regulation, and that is a very broad field. but it is also surprising that europe is so far behind in terms of innovation. however, when we consider that a patent costs on average 46 700 euros in europe compared with 10 250 euros in the united states, i think we have the answer, unfortunately. such a cost is the best way to stifle innovation in european smes. the cost is far too prohibitive. it is therefore urgent to call on the council in particular to come to its senses in order to get our companies out of this disastrous situation. i would now like to stress another important point which we should have taken up in this report. i'm thinking of the public procurement agreement. the agreement, which is currently being reorganised at the world trade organisation, gives the 36 signatories, including our 25 member states, access to the public procurement contracts of their partners. however, some of these partners do not play the game. we have only to look at the united states and canada, which, by means of national provisions, exclude from the scope of the agreement public contracts reserved for their smes, even though these countries can apply for public contracts in the 25 member states. it is not acceptable to me that the progress made in transatlantic relations should be systematically in the same direction. it is therefore our duty to promote a european small business act, similar to the one that has been in place in the united states since 1953. we can consider ourselves 50 years behind schedule. you'll agree that's enough! we have to legislate better.
i voted for the excellent report by my colleague pilar del castillo vera on entrepreneurship and growth. this report is a key contribution to achieving the objectives set by the revised lisbon strategy to make europe the most competitive area in the world by focusing on growth and jobs, while maintaining the balance between the three pillars of the process, economy, social and environment. if the union is to succeed in this formidable challenge of growth and jobs, it is necessary to take account of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which, let us not forget, account for 70% of total employment in europe with 75 million workers. after having built the internal market with consumers in mind, with competition in mind, the union must now look to producers and ensure that european creativity is unleashed while protecting us from the negative aspects of globalisation. finally, i regret that the calamitous monetary policy of the european central bank (ecb) has not been criticised because it is not sufficiently geared to economic growth.
mr president, i would like to make a point of order. a number of members and i are concerned. it appears that additional security measures have been taken in this enclosure. do you have any information to share with us or is this just to scare employees who intend to take a union action?
mr president, the gál report proposes the creation of a european agency to defend fundamental rights. i am afraid that the fundamental rights of europeans are not well represented, even in instances which have been presented as a higher form of these rights. i am referring to the international criminal courts and, in particular, to the one set up for the former yugoslavia. as i speak, a leading serbian leader, vojislav seselj, the chairman of the serbian radical party, one of the most important parties in that country, who voluntarily surrendered to this court, has been detained for four years. he does not have access to all the prosecution's documents in his language. he's a law professor and he refuses to be represented by a lawyer. he's being denied the right to defend himself. i believe that this is a very serious violation of fundamental rights and i would like to draw the attention of this house to this particular case of extreme gravity.
mr president, as i said just now, there is a fear that these courts, which are wrongly presented as the ultimate form of guaranteeing human rights in europe, are instead only serving to violate them and, by their abuse, are leading to an excessive perpetuation of clashes between peoples, thus delaying the date of their necessary reconciliation. this is particularly true of the criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and that is why we shall refer to mr seselj's case whenever human rights are discussed in this chamber.
in writing. i am in favour of bulgaria's accession to the union, but i abstained on this report. the european union, with its current rules, is still facing real difficulties in reaching decisions and agreeing on a common position. in these circumstances, it is premature to bring new participants around the table. the first thing to do is to reform our common institutions, but also to provide new sources of funding so that the integration of new member states into the union can proceed properly. a pause in enlargement is necessary at this stage. in any event, if bulgaria's accession is confirmed on 1 january 2007, i would nevertheless like safeguard clauses to be applied, particularly on the free movement of workers.
in writing. i am in favour of romania's accession to the union, but i abstained on this report. i believe that in the present context, where the institutions have not been reformed, europe is seriously jeopardizing its effectiveness by continuing its enlargement. the community's finances must also be reformed and new sources of finance identified before countries are included which, given their present situation, will certainly not be net contributors to the budget but debtors. a break in enlargement is essential at this stage. in any event, if romania's accession is confirmed on 1 january 2007, i would nevertheless like safeguard clauses to be applied, particularly on the free movement of workers.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the busquin report on the rules for participation in the seventh edp. this report is part of the european union's policy for research and complements the seventh rdp for 2007-13, which i also voted for. the changes made to the rules on participation will simplify and improve the operation and implementation of the next framework programme, particularly for smes, which will encourage their participation in european research programmes. the report pays particular attention to smes, which are calling for more flexibility and for rules and controls adapted to the specific needs of these enterprises. i welcome the fact that the european union's funding for smes has been increased and that reference is made to more reasonable payment times.
mr president, after having opened the floodgates to uncontrolled immigration by abolishing controls at the union's borders with the schengen agreements and having made entire parts of asylum legislation community law with the amsterdam treaty, we are now being asked to go further in the delegation of powers to the union by leaving decisions to the council by unanimity in matters of judicial and police cooperation. the eurocrats are certainly not learning from nothing. after having expressed alarm at the arrival of tens of thousands of illegal immigrants on the spanish and italian coasts, taking advantage of the absence of border controls to enter european territory, and after having bitterly noted europe's inability to deal with such situations, mr cavada, echoing mr sarkozy, now proposes that the member states' decision-making power in managing their migration flows be reduced a little further by abolishing the rule of unanimity in the council by activating the 'bridge clause'. it is not a federal europe that will be able to stop crossborder crime, quite the contrary, and, as in the case of switzerland, the peoples of europe must take their destiny into their own hands and be able to protect themselves effectively against the invasion of migrants.
in writing. if there is one area where the european parliament and the european commission have gone wrong, it is in the establishment of their much-loved and desired 'area of freedom, security and justice'. we were promised when the amsterdam treaty was adopted, a european area where all freedoms would be present and effective and where we would be protected against all insecurities. as we predicted, the opposite has happened. with the abolition of border controls by the schengen convention and the communitization of asylum and visa policies, immigration, particularly illegal immigration, has never been so important and insecurity, mafias, criminals of all kinds have never been so numerous. today mr cavada's resolution proposes that we go further in delegating powers to the european union in the field of immigration policy by abolishing the unanimity rule in the council. once again, delegating these prerogatives of national sovereignty to the european union will not stop illegal immigration and the human tragedies that go with it. the main cause of these is the abolition of border controls between member states. we must re-establish these and only then will the member states be able to combat effectively the mass arrivals of illegal immigrants and the many crossborder crimes.
in writing. accessibility to public transport and information and communication technologies is vital for people with disabilities. the latter have the right to a better integration into education and the labour market. the rapporteur rightly advocates a european charter on 'the quality of support for disabled people'. i therefore voted in favour of mrs elisabeth lynne's report, which also stresses the need for european legislation on the rights of disabled people for all modes of transport, such as the one in force for disabled air passengers. we have to break down the prejudices. information campaigns should be developed to ensure that employers consider the integration of a disabled person into the labour market without any prejudice, particularly in relation to misconceptions about the financial cost of such employment and the abilities of the applicants. member states should ensure that disability is managed as a new service for enterprises, in order to ensure the retention of employment, as a preventive measure, or the vocational reintegration, as a rehabilitation measure, for persons at risk of disability in the workplace.
in writing. what is the purpose of mrs del castillo vera's report? the catchy title 'let's go faster: creating the europe of entrepreneurship and growth' covers a list of truisms and principles, which is common in this house. some very useful measures, such as the promotion of smes or administrative simplification, are never incorporated into community legislation. others are the very foundation of the problems which they claim to be trying to solve: dogmatic free trade, ultra-competition, ever more europe, etc. finally, the most informative part of this report is the three pages of "visas", which make up a good third of the text. they contain the list of documents, perhaps not even exhaustive, summarized in this report, which is far from the announced change to higher speed. they are above all symbolic of the sloppy approach that the european institutions can take to growth and employment in order to hide their responsibility for europe's disastrous economic and social situation.
mr president, i am speaking at the opening of the trial of mr vojislav seselj, the chairman of the main serbian party, the serbian radical party. mr seselj voluntarily turned himself in as a prisoner in january 2003, that is four years ago, as soon as the indictment against him was published. the accusation was nothing but speeches and a political project to bring all serbs together in one country, a fact that is perhaps questionable, but we know the very painful circumstances that this country has experienced. mr seselj has been under house arrest since december 2004 for giving interviews to serbian newspapers, but prosecutor uertz-retzlaff has been spreading rumors against him in the press. mr. seselj demands to see his family, he should be allowed to see them and be free to appear. he demands to correspond in his native language, serbian, with the court, which is also his right and this right is denied him. doctor of law, professor of law, he wants to defend himself, it's a fundamental right. he refuses to hire lawyers whose experience has shown them to be sympathetic to the prosecution. what is the response of the president of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, alphons orie? the court finds that the fact that the prosecution is dependent on itself... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to express my disapproval of the remarks made by the european commissioner for health and consumer protection, mr kyprianou, at a press conference on 9 november. the commissioner warmly congratulated four multinational food companies - i will not name them - for their action in the fight against obesity; it also allowed these companies to promote themselves by means of stands at the entrance to the press conference room. we must bear in mind that one in five children in europe is obese and that this number is increasing every year because of the poor eating habits promoted by fast food, soda and other chocolate bars, marketed mainly by these four multinational companies. binding legislation to provide nutrition information to european consumers would be more beneficial to them than praise for companies that have contributed to the decades-long explosion of obesity. other ways to combat obesity include eating more fruits and vegetables and engaging in sports activities, which should be promoted more widely. i can therefore only advise mr kyprianou to get closer to his colleague mrs fischer-boel and to contribute to the reform of the fruit and vegetables cmo in the interests of a healthy and balanced diet.
mr president, on 22 june 2006 the european commission presented a communication to respond to the crisis of overproduction in the european wine sector. the commission is recommending that 400 000 hectares of vineyards be grubbed up in the next five years, or almost 12% of the 3.4 million hectares in the european union. i would like to draw your attention today to the existence of illegal vine plantations in europe: they are estimated to cover an area of 150 000 hectares for the whole of the european union. according to the commission's own figures, in a report of march 2004, these illegal vine plantations would have produced between 5 and 8 million hectolitres, even though european overproduction is estimated at 12 million hectolitres. the permanent uprooting of these illegal vines would restore a form of balance. so before any decision is taken on grubbing-up measures, i ask the commission to draw up a precise picture of these illegal plantations.
president of the council. mr president, mr sacconi, members of the european parliament, mr verheugen and mr dimas, the reach regulation is one of the most important legislative projects in the history of the european union. the regulation will be a major leap forward from the current chemical control system, which is about 40 years old. it is a fact that europe is a global pioneer and a global leader. for almost three years, the european parliament, the council and the commission have worked together to adopt the reach regulation. the negotiation process has been a difficult one. i think it is no exaggeration to say that without the strong commitment of all parties to this issue, we would not be here today. in the council, the preparation of the regulation has been the challenge of seven presidencies. i would like to thank all the presidencies in the council who have prepared the ground for the decision now before us. the political agreement reached in the council during the uk presidency provided an excellent basis for the conclusion of the negotiations during the finnish presidency. i am very pleased that the member states have given their strong support to the negotiated compromise package. i also warmly hope that the various groups in the european parliament will support the compromise resolution as widely as possible in the vote on wednesday. i would like to thank the european parliament for its excellent cooperation during the autumn negotiations. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr saccon, and mr florenz, chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the shadow rapporteurs, and many other representatives who have worked actively to find common solutions. i would also like to thank commissioners verheugen and dimas for their strong personal contribution to the negotiations. at this stage in the process, it is a good time to assess how the objectives of reach as a whole are being achieved. the regulation will significantly improve the protection of human health and the environment. reach improves our knowledge of the properties of substances, enhances the management of chemical risks and requires authorisation for the most dangerous substances. the new security requirements will be the most demanding in the world. it is in the common interest of european consumers and industry to promote the development of new and safer chemicals. to this end, the current procedure for the notification of new substances has been reformed in the proposal. reach also increases the responsibilities and duties of companies and allows them to manage their chemical safety obligations more independently than before. the transparency of chemical control will be considerably increased by the creation of modern information systems and registers at the agency, which will also provide citizens with better information on substances and their properties. information systems will be unique in the world. the study of the effects of substances requires better knowledge of their properties. reach takes this area to a new level by allowing the widespread use of alternative research methods and programmes. these new alternative methods are likely to have an impact on chemical testing on a global scale. consumers are also getting more information about the dangerous substances contained in goods. reach also establishes a system whereby traders are obliged to provide information on substances of very high concern contained in articles, upon request by the consumer. the question of the authorisation procedure and substitutions was the last open point in the negotiations. in accordance with the proposal of the presidency, the applicant or the authorisation holder should submit a substitution plan when an analysis of the alternatives indicates that suitable alternatives exist. the substitution plan must be submitted irrespective of whether the authorisation is granted on the basis of appropriate risk management or socioeconomic benefits. in addition, the appropriate risk management pathway was narrowed compared to the common position so that it does not apply to pbt and vpvb substances. for endocrine disruptors, a review was agreed within six years. i believe that this solution takes account in a balanced and realistic way of the concerns expressed by the european parliament about the substitution of the most dangerous substances. as president-in-office of the council, i am pleased to announce that a package of amendments based on the results of the trialogue negotiations is to be voted on. i can confirm the council's approval of these amendments. as regards the other amendments, i hope that the outcome of the negotiations will remain unchanged. i hope that parliament will adopt the compromise package negotiated with the council on the regulation at its meeting on wednesday. this would bring a major legislative project of importance to european citizens and industry one step closer to reality. (applause) i would like to thank the
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. today's debate is the last stage in a long journey, the goal of which will be to make great progress in health, in the environment and - i would like to add this explicitly - in the competitiveness of european industry. i am even hopeful that this major project will set standards in environmental and health policy worldwide. we have come this far thanks in no small part to the great commitment and influence of the european parliament, and especially to mr sacconi, who has proved to be a great negotiator and expert. i would also like to thank mr florenz, chairman of the committee on the environment, who has guided us through the extremely difficult and sometimes arduous trilogue processes. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the committee on industry, mrs ek, for her valuable contribution, and mr nassauer, the rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, both of whom played a key role. the result which is being presented here today clearly bears the stamp of parliament, and i am the first to say that it represents an improvement compared to what has been presented. this has been achieved mainly by strengthening the authorisation system and providing stronger incentives leading to substitution of substances for which there is a suitable alternative. let me make this clear again: substitution of substances for which there is a suitable alternative is an economic advantage. it is not harmful to do so, but it is good for us. i am also very pleased that during the discussions it was possible to pay greater attention to animal welfare. for me, one of the really problematic issues with reach has always been that it leads to a much higher consumption of laboratory animals than we have today without it. but i can go straight to the question from mr davies in the previous debate and say that the way we implement reach will in any case also be determined by the objective of reducing the consumption of experimental animals really dramatically. we have also improved information for consumers; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. it has always been a misconception - although this misconception has been propagated by some environmental organisations - that reach is a problem of european large-scale industry. the european large-scale industry has no problem at all with reach, either in its original form or in its present form. it has always been a problem of small and mediumsized enterprises, whose competitiveness, indeed their survival, is jeopardized if we do not pay close attention to what they can and cannot do. the amendments are therefore extremely important, not only in terms of the testing requirements for substances produced in smaller quantities, but also in terms of the increased incentives for the sharing of data for registration and the improved protection of intellectual property rights. the commission believes that a balance has been struck between competitiveness on the one hand and the necessary progress on the environment and health on the other, and therefore supports the proposal on the table. the amendments which underlie mr sacconi's proposal are therefore supported by the commission. i would like to conclude by saying that i agree with mr sacconi on another point. we are now close to the goal of passing this law, but the difficulties are far from over. it may well be that the greater part of the difficulty lies ahead of us, for this will be a law which will require a great deal of attention, creativity and energy in its application. i would point out that we must now ensure that the agency in helsinki is up and running quickly. the problem is particularly the processing of data. we must ensure that the implementing regulations enter into force quickly and that those affected know quickly what to do. we must first of all ensure that those who have to orientate themselves to reach know how to do so. the commission has already started to prepare smes more effectively and with more comprehensive information so that they know how to do this in the first place. finally, since this is a directive, we must be careful that the implementation in the member states does not create new problems and new complications through different applications. i would also ask parliament to help us with what is still to come. if we continue to work together on this issue in the future, we will surely succeed - i am convinced of this - in creating a model for how we can achieve our european vision of combining a strong, efficient, job-saving industrial base with high standards, the highest possible standards for the environment and for the health of our citizens!
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these days a long legislative process is coming to an end and reach is taking its final form. the commission, as vice-president verheugen said, congratulates the council and parliament on reaching an agreement. the agreement aims to improve health and environmental protection and to promote innovation and industrial competitiveness. the commission therefore supports the package of compromise proposals agreed between the council and parliament on 30 november 2006. i would like to thank the presidency and the minister, mr pekkarinen, and of course the european parliament, the committee on the environment, its chairman, mr florenz, and especially the rapporteur, mr guido sacconi, for the considerable efforts and determination which have brought this proposal to a successful conclusion. reach is one of the most comprehensive, ambitious and far-reaching pieces of legislation that has been drawn up in the european union to date. it will affect all sectors of industry, but also ordinary citizens in direct or more indirect ways, as chemicals are so widespread in our daily lives. for citizens and consumers, reach means better information on substances in everyday products, but above all it means that the most dangerous substances will be gradually replaced by safer ones. the commission also stressed that risk assessments would take special account of vulnerable groups such as children, pregnant women and the elderly. this will also improve the health of citizens and prevent environmental damage, which is not only costly to treat and manage but often irreversible. for industry, reach means a general responsibility to avoid adverse effects on health and the environment from the production, use and sale of chemicals. it also means that the flow of information in the production chain will be improved so that downstream users have a better and more complete knowledge of the characteristics and properties of the substances they use. this will make it possible to set more precise targets for risk management measures, which will enhance the protection of workers and thus reduce health and occupational problems. although there will be some cost increase, this expenditure and investment will be spread over a long period of time, e.g. 11 years in the case of registration or even more years in the case of lending. the new system is expected to restore consumer confidence in chemicals and the chemical industry and, moreover, reach will boost competitiveness and innovation, which will not only offset but also exceed most of the initial costs and investments. reach aims to reduce animal testing to the absolute minimum. the agreement between parliament and the council on this point is satisfactory. it stresses the importance of alternative methods and provides for a 45-day public consultation period for each test proposal. the vote on wednesday will be the final stage in a process aimed at achieving the target set by the heads of state or government at the 2006 spring meeting of completing reach by the end of 2006. i hope, therefore, that we can complete the process as planned, that the regulation comes into force and that we can begin to tackle the great challenge that lies ahead of us, namely to gradually gather knowledge about the thousands of substances in use today and to put in place improved risk management measures. finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must begin, and we must begin soon, with the gradual substitution of dangerous substances. if there are alternative products available, substitution should be our first choice.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i will not go into detail on the analysis of the reach compromise which is going to be submitted to us: my colleague jens holm will deal with it in a few moments. i would like to focus on one point: reach is both a beautiful illustration of what europe could be and an unfortunate confirmation of its contradictions today. reach promised, just a few weeks ago, to be a sign of real ambition for europe: the european union was going to have legislation that finally put public health and the environment above short-term economic calculations; finally, it required firms to take account of the social cost of their race to competitiveness. the commission has also been working on the development of the european market in asbestos, and has been drawing lessons from the asbestos scandal. this was a major opportunity for europe to forge an identity of progress, in a field which was very important to our fellow citizens, by changing the situation within europe and in the world. many ngos, trade unions and elected representatives have been actively involved in the success of this good project. today, many of them are very disillusioned with the excessive concessions made to the big european companies. the burden of proof is reversed: it is no longer the public authorities who have to prove the toxicity of the chemicals used, but the industry that has to demonstrate that they are safe. how can we justify allowing companies to continue to use substances which are recognised as being very dangerous, even if they are controlled, even though there are less harmful alternatives on the market? after the terrible precedent of asbestos, it's ethically unacceptable. the same is true of the right of management to keep secret information they have on the possible toxicity of chemical substances produced in quantities of less than ten tonnes per year, which is the case for the vast majority of them. and let us not use the financial fragility of small and mediumsized enterprises as an excuse any longer! my group tabled an amendment requiring large companies to provide smes with the information they have on the substances in question, in order to save them unnecessary expense: this amendment was rejected by the majority compromise. one last point is worth considering. this compromise at a discount is not a sign of weakness in the face of an unequal balance of power. the bad example comes from above! the commission's vice-president for industry, mr verheugen, said in mid-september that reach legislation was too ambitious and that this was the type of proposal the commission would not be presenting in the future. the most worrying thing is that he made this announcement in a speech on the better regulation initiative, which says a lot about the strategic direction of this pernicious slogan. we have seen the effects of this in the social field, particularly with the services directive and the green paper on labour law. today, it is the turn of public health and the environment to be affected. the debate on what needs to change in the construction of europe is more urgent than ever!
mr president, we know that chemicals can be dangerous and have catastrophic effects on health and the environment. it was therefore clear that, despite economic pressures and political divisions, this text had to be exemplary. that is why i regret today that the long discussions have led to a compromise which fell short of our expectations and short of the vote in the committee on the environment. yes, i regret it, and i particularly regret that the principle of substitution, where alternatives exist, is weakened by the proposal for a substitution plan and a socioeconomic relationship, both of which will delay the replacement of dangerous substances. i hope the agency will be uncompromising on these issues. i also share the view of the european trade union confederation. i regret that the chemical safety report is only mandatory for production above 10 tonnes, which will not allow for transparency on thousands of substances or for the adoption of risk management plans. finally, i am puzzled by the nuances expressed on cmr substances, suggesting that they are less dangerous than they appear. i also regret that some of the european industry has not been willing to take up the challenge of innovation today and improve its image with the public. i say part of the european industry, because i know that some have already anticipated reach. i therefore hope that the implementation of this regulation, if it is adopted in its consolidated form on wednesday, will be carried out with the greatest possible rigor and transparency. i would like to end by thanking guido sacconi, for whom the task was not easy.
mr president, mr minister, commissioners, and fellow rapporteurs, i hear my colleagues expressing their disappointment. however, the compromise which is before us this week is an acceptable agreement in my view, because it is based on reciprocal concessions. i would like to highlight the work of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. as regards substitution, it was necessary to include it in the debate on authorization, since its main interest lies in the eventual elimination of very dangerous substances. on the other hand, compulsory substitution was a good objective but was not a technically realistic solution. the compromise reached on this issue has one consequence: companies will be forced to compete to develop substances with safer properties. the companies which discover these alternative substances will therefore have a more favourable position on the market and the search for alternative substances will therefore become a challenge for the companies. article 137 of the compromise, which deals with revision, seems to me to be an important element. an evaluation of the implementation of this legislative package after the first few years is essential. we will already be able to appreciate the distance traveled. at the same time, it seems to me that it will provide an opportunity to clarify the treatment of certain products whose intrinsic properties and uses have been known for a long time. i am thinking of lime or batteries, on which we have just passed legislation. in my view, these products are not adequately dealt with in the current text. i am particularly concerned about the fact that substances which are naturally present are subjected to the same treatment as substances which are created from scratch. another concern i have is the implementation of this legislation by smes. in my previous speech in this house i said that we would succeed when we adopt a system which is balanced, simple, efficient and applicable to businesses. i doubt we've gotten there. for this reason, i hope that the member states and professional federations, but also ngos, will create an environment which will enable smes to meet the requirements of this legislation, while contributing to the achievement of its objectives. in addition, since this legislation applies to imported products, it must be applied in third countries, which will also have to commit themselves to the design and development of chemicals which respect human health and the environment. i think that is extremely important. finally, i hope that the european union, in the next wto negotiations and when it might be suspected of lifting non-tariff barriers, will promote reach as legislation necessary for the survival of man and nature.
mr president, with reach, all of us together, and guido sacconi, our rapporteur, we had raised a great hope: to rid our environment of persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic chemicals that poison our health and nature. the project to regulate chemicals had awakened the ecological and social awareness of europeans, and even beyond our borders. in this sense, a huge amount of work in dialogue with civil society - trade unions, ngos, companies and industry - has brought together the need to improve public health and the quality of the environment and to ensure that citizens and workers are informed about the chemicals around us. unfortunately, despite an encouraging message from our committee on the environment, the compromises being made will weaken this reach project. how can we explain to our fellow citizens that we will not hold the industry responsible for the release of toxic substances and that it will be the consumers and the worker who handles dangerous substances who will bear this responsibility? how can we explain the fact that parliament is in favour of the substitution of carcinogenic, mutagenic and endocrine disrupting molecules, without requiring their systematic application? and what about the lack of transparency in information on the most dangerous substances? we do not accept this and we do not understand it. while many smes and smes have integrated the added value of green chemistry, the heavyweights of the european chemical industry refuse to evolve. they continue to influence our work, despite the financial cost to our health care system of the increase in disease, which mr. nassauer completely ignores. today we have a great responsibility and we must take our votes. the greens' amendments are in favour of a stronger reach, which makes sense and does not wait for the greek calends to substitute the most dangerous products, as mr sacconi acknowledges. in conclusion, i would say that this compromise may be a great step for the chemical industry, but it will be a setback for our parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us take stock of the progress made with the draft which is before us today. reach will change our relationship with chemical pollution dramatically: by reversing the burden of proof, first; by systematic information along the chain, second. i have heard earlier about the asbestos scandal: we know very well today that with the text we are voting on, it would no longer be possible to have this kind of scandal. we must tell the public! there are all these achievements, of course, but there are also, of course, things that do not satisfy us, or not enough. natural substances, first of all, i wish we could be a little bit clearer, it can cause problems. i don't think a natural substance is really a chemical substance. on importation, then: i would also have liked to have more guarantees that we could impose comparable standards on importers. then, and of course, there's this big issue of substitution. i too, like many others, would have liked the substitution to be automatic, systematic and immediate. i voted in favour of all the amendments which went in that direction at first reading, but i observed that we did not have the qualified majority. and if our colleague mr sacconi had not made this effort to compromise, we would have run the great risk of finding ourselves, at the second reading vote, without the implementation of this principle. the principle is there in compromise. the problem is not the principle, but its gradual, gradual implementation - which is not enough in my view - but the principle applies to all dangerous substances. so let us not overlook the effort our colleague has made and the victory we have won on this side. now we must ensure that, beyond this principle, its implementation is up to the challenge. it will depend on the resources of the agency, on the financial resources, on the human resources, on the pressure of public opinion, it will also depend on the funds allocated to research and, on this point, we want the commission to be particularly aggressive in order to give this compromise the full sense of progress that we hope for.
president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank the members for a very interesting and very open debate. it's pretty straightforward here. the debate showed that there is still a difference of opinion in parliament on reach and why this should be the case. i think it is quite natural and natural that this should be the case. on the other hand, the debate showed that a very large number of members are prepared to seek the best possible outcome in this situation by means of compromises. it seems that the vote on wednesday, the day after tomorrow, will fulfil the wish i expressed in my first speech. it seems, ladies and gentlemen, that there is now a sufficient willingness to compromise. i am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that as a result of these compromises we are about to have the most advanced chemical legislation in the world on the territory of the european union. after the votes, the real work begins: the implementation of the regulation. the practical work of managing the 30,000 chemicals currently on the european market. i believe that as a result of this work we will be doing a great service to our children and grandchildren, to nature, to the environment and to all that we live in. with these words i once again thank all the members of this house, and in particular the rapporteur, the chairman of the committee and the partners in parliament and the commission more generally.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to make just two brief remarks. some of the participants in the debate, whom i do not see at the moment, criticised the fact that the reach project would reduce the level of protection for workers in the chemical industry. i must say with all firmness that this is simply nonsense. reach cannot reduce the level of protection in the chemical industry. the relevant occupational safety and health provisions remain fully in force. reach does not allow anything that was previously prohibited. on the contrary, a whole series of substances which workers have been exposed to will no longer be attributed to them. so reach is definitely making a significant improvement in the safety of workers at work. i therefore have to reject this argument very clearly from members of this house who pretend to represent the interests of workers. the second point i would like to make is that many speakers have rightly pointed out that what is needed now is to implement reach in a non-bureaucratic, transparent, decisive and full way. this requires an infinite number of initiatives, projects and measures. i could tell you all about them, but i don't have time. i have already offered the chairman of the environment committee to come to the committee in february and report in detail on the measures that the commission has either already taken or is planning to take with regard to the implementation of reach. i would like to stress the importance of answering all the questions that have been raised here, which relate to facilitating and helping the small and mediumsized enterprises in europe and the many hundreds of thousands of workers affected by them.
member of the commission. mr president, i have listened carefully to the speeches of the distinguished members of the european parliament and i appreciate the positive and constructive contributions and the well-intentioned criticisms. the commission supports the compromise amendments, which, on the one hand, aim to make significant improvements in the protection of human health and the environment and, on the other, to enhance innovation and maintain economic growth. i believe that one of the most important elements of the agreement we have on the table, as mrs corbey underlined, is the substitution of the most dangerous substances with safer alternatives when these are available. i can say that in certain aspects this compromise is an improvement compared with the original commission proposal, for example the authorisation in general is stricter. i can fully support making it obligatory for companies’ applications for authorisation to include substitution plans for substances of very high concern – manufactured or imported – if the companies have identified the availability of suitable alternatives. i can also fully agree that these substitution plans should be key factors in the decision to grant authorisations and in any further revision of such authorisations. the vote last october in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety may have raised hopes for an even more ambitious result, as mr bowis said. like many of the speakers this evening, i would also like to stay at the top of the mountain and would have preferred certain issues to have been dealt with differently in the final deal. for example, as mr davies and mrs hassi have underlined, the rules on substances which disturb the hormone system – the so-called endocrine disruptors – could be stricter. mrs lucas and others do not accept that the possibility to keep the scientific names of new dangerous substances confidential for six years would be beneficial to the overall deal. this denies consumers the right to know which substances they are dealing with and it also makes it more difficult for users to identify the substances in various databases. last but not least, as mrs ek, mrs ferreira, and others have suggested, the obligation to provide a chemical safety report for the most dangerous substances in the lower production volumes would have been useful to further enhance worker protection. nevertheless, as mrs roth-behrendt underlined, a compromise is a compromise and this compromise package is a marked improvement for the protection of health and the environment if we compare it to the current situation. the commission can fully support the compromise package and i sincerely hope that parliament will support this package during the vote on wednesday. throughout this process the commission has done its best to facilitate agreement between the council and parliament and to find balanced compromises. we very much welcome the convergence developed between parliament and the council and fully support this agreement so that reach can be enforced by june 2007. once again, i am grateful to mr sacconi and the shadow rapporteurs for their efforts to achieve this compromise.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the committee on the internal market and consumer protection as well as the other committees involved, and in particular mrs fourtou as rapporteur for the reports to be discussed tonight. the modernisation of the european customs environment is an essential contribution to attaining the objectives of the lisbon strategy. it is a must if we want the european union to remain an attractive place to do business and maintain the external competitiveness of eu companies. in this context, it is crucial to deepen the single market by making the eu a fully-integrated customs territory. this reform is also critical if we want to live up to the challenges of globalisation and reinforce the role of customs in protecting our citizens and companies from security and safety hazards such as counterfeiting, dangerous goods or the devices of international terrorism. the modernised community customs code will provide the legal framework for the development of a simple and paperless environment for customs and trade based on the best use of information and communication technology. the present community customs code was adapted in 1992. since then, it has undergone only limited changes. this means that the code has not kept pace with the radical changes to the environment in which customs and traders operate, particularly in respect of the rapid and irreversible adoption of electronic data exchange. the customs code has to be adapted to fit the electronic environment. in addition, it is commonly held by customs authorities and traders alike that current customs procedure and processes are unnecessarily complicated. they also do not reflect the changing focus of customs work, moving from the collection of declining customs duties towards the application of non-tariff measures. this includes, in particular, security and safety measures, the fight against counterfeiting, money laundering and drugs and the application of sanitary, health and consumer protection measures. with your support, the proposal for a modernised customs code on the table tonight, together with the proposals on the council table and e-customs, will make customs work better, faster and more cheaply. let me once again and now more specifically turn to mrs fourtou and the committee on the internal market for their detailed and most valuable assessment of the commission’s proposal for a modernised customs code. i know there is unanimous support in the committee on the internal market for the rapporteur’s recommendations. progress in the council is complementing your work. i am pleased to report that on 4 december the competitiveness council showed a keen interest in the key elements of the reform. ministers gave strong support to the commission’s proposals on the single window, on centralised clearance and on customs agents, while inviting the commission to pursue the work to implement these in an acceptable manner for all member states. i would like to thank parliament for its constructive contribution to the debate on these three issues, but i must also inform you that in at least one of them the commission’s position remains unchanged. thus it is the commission’s firm opinion that the accreditation of professional customs agents is not a matter for the customs code. there is a future for the profession in an open competitive market, through self-regulation and the recognition provided by the status of authorised economic operator. though there is no debate on the e-customs proposal tonight, i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur mr heaton-harris and the committee on the internal market for its full support for an extremely ambitious commission proposal. it is indeed challenging to propose that all member states and the commission commit themselves to developing common electronic systems for customs proposals by an agreed date. let me stress that the firm support from parliament is more than welcome in order to convince member states that, despite budgetary constraints, they need to develop their customs it system in a community framework. i am confident that the council will acknowledge this step and the proposal can soon be adopted. i very much appreciate the efforts of the european parliament and particularly those of mrs fourtou to come to an agreement in a single reading on the customs 2013 proposal. this will definitely ensure the continuity of the programme activities as of 1 january 2008. the speedy adoption of customs 2013 shows that there is a broad agreement across all the institutions on the obvious need to guarantee the effective functioning of the internal market in the customs field. indeed, the customs environment is undergoing major changes. the customs 2013 programme will be an essential instrument to ensure efficient cooperation and coordination between all customs administrations. it will facilitate the introduction of new trans-european computerised systems, reinforce networks between customs officials and promote and establish common training modules. once the two customs proposals under debate and the e-customs proposal are finally adopted by both parliament and the council, they will enable the customs services of the eu to meet the major challenges. they will facilitate international trade, foster simpler control and will more effectively protect the internal market and the health, safety and security of our citizens through more efficient control.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the three reports on the customs code, modernised, customs without paper, customs programme 2013 which are being discussed at this part-session show the growing importance of customs and their role in the european union's desire for competitiveness and efficiency. these three reports are closely linked, but for the sake of clarity i will first present the modernised customs code and then move on to the customs 2013 programme. the customs code - you said it, mr kovacs - dates from 1992. it was legitimate to modernise it to adapt it to the evolution of customs duties and the radical changes in international trade. the aim is to streamline customs procedures by laying the foundations for accessible and interoperable customs clearance systems throughout the european union. that is why this proposal is accompanied by a proposal for a decision on electronic customs, for which my colleague, mr heaton-harris, is the rapporteur. the new code has 200 articles, in which we have concentrated on the main points, or at least on the most controversial points, namely the customs representative, the authorized economic operator, centralised customs clearance and comitology. article 11 deals with the customs representative. until now, national legislation could reserve the right of representation to a professional category. however, in the context of the single market and the electronic environment, this monopoly no longer has any place. in addition, some companies may have an integrated service that handles customs formalities. the right to customs representation should therefore be open to all. however, in many member states the use of customs agents is traditional and remains very useful for small businesses. the commission has therefore adopted an amendment which, without wishing to maintain a monopoly, provides that, as one of the criteria for the status of customs representative, account should be taken of the existence of practical standards of competence or professional qualifications in order to satisfy member states for whom the abolition of this monopoly is difficult to accept. we have not yet found the ideal solution and this question will certainly be raised again at second reading because some delegations in the council still express reservations and even go so far as to ask for regulated access to the profession. the authorised economic operator is a new feature introduced into the customs code by regulation 648 of 13 april 2005, known as the 'security regulation'. this status has not yet become a reality in itself, since the implementing provisions have just been adopted by the commission. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has introduced a clarification, making a clear distinction between authorized economic operator - customs simplification, and authorized economic operator - security. the centralised clearance is a welcome facilitation in principle but member states have questions about the collection of customs duties. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has taken a rather radical position by calling for free electronic customs clearance and the possibility of opening customs offices 24 hours a day. in order to ensure fair competition between national customs authorities, the rule must be common to all. however, it will be necessary to ensure that there is harmonisation of control activities. finally, the provisions of the proposal refer constantly to comitology. this procedure is necessary because experts are needed to draw up the implementing provisions of the code. under the new interinstitutional agreement of july 2006, certain provisions of the code are subject to the new comitology procedure with scrutiny. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive is a very good one. the committee on international trade adopted amendments in favour of the codecision procedure for certain provisions which would normally fall within its competence under the enhanced cooperation procedure. however, we considered that his position was contrary to that of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and we had to reject those amendments. so that is very briefly the main points of the dossier and, as i said earlier, it is also closely linked to the dossier relating to the customs 2013 programme. the mid-term evaluation of the customs 2007 programme has shown that it is well-suited to the needs of administrations and plays a key role in helping participating countries to share their experiences. the evaluation recommended strengthening activities in the areas of training and dissemination of information. the programme has a budget of eur 322.8 million over six years and aims to help the customs administrations of the participating countries to promote legitimate trade, simplify and speed up customs procedures and ensure the safety and protection of the citizens and financial interests of the community. the amendments adopted by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection are in line with the council's work and i am particularly grateful to the finnish presidency for having negotiated with the member states on several occasions to meet the legitimate budgetary demands of the european parliament and defended our position. i hope that this will enable us to conclude this dossier at the first reading. customs files are highly technical and complex. i would therefore like to thank my various contacts in the taxation dg who have always answered all my requests and made it easier for me to address these issues. i also thank my colleagues and the chairman of our committee for their help and support. at a time when trade is accelerating, when organised crime and counterfeiting threaten our security and our market, customs and economic operators need all our support.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my first words will be, commissioner, to congratulate you on the considerable work that you and your services are doing to modernise customs regulations, which is a necessary condition for the proper functioning of our internal market. i would also like to warmly congratulate my colleague, mrs janelly fourtou, who has made some very interesting proposals for improvement. on international trade, i would make three remarks on the question of competence between committees, comitology and, finally, the parliamentary dimension of international trade. i believe, mr president, that the rivalries between the internal market committee and the committee on international trade must be put to an end, or at the very least that these rivalries must not delay the adoption of the european legislation that our internal market so badly needs. it is not serious to deny the link between international trade and the community customs problem. at a time when europe is being closely watched, i regret that rule 47 of our rules of procedure has been violated in relation to enhanced cooperation between committees, because the amendments voted unanimously by the committee on international trade have been irregularly discarded and will, unfortunately, not be put to the vote in plenary. i am glad, however, that our amendments have shed light on the misuse of comitology procedures by the european commission. i hope that it will eventually be forced to use the new comitology procedure with scrutiny, which was introduced by the interinstitutional agreement of july 2006. in this connection, it will be important to clarify the use of article 194 (c) and we will need the european commission to assure us that it does not intend to amend the community customs code on the basis of an international trade agreement concluded by it under article 133 of the treaty on european union. ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the failure of the doha agenda is undermining the rules of international trade, we must protect our producers and our consumers from the problems of safety and security through border controls. in this context, the parliamentary dimension of international trade has never been more important, particularly with regard to the functioning of community customs.
mr president, codification is a moment of intelligence: we move from the law of the moment to the law of thought. i therefore welcome the reports on customs codification by our colleagues and friends janelly fourtou and jean-pierre audy. especially since the years 1919 for germany, 1934-35 for france, 1938 for mexico, etc., the codification ambition had been lost. it is true that customs rules are being codified here - let us not be naive - simply under pressure from the united states after 9/11, which wants customs to be not budgetary but secure: hence the additional control by authorized economic operators, customs representatives, etc. but beyond this little codification, we will have to think about a customs codification that is legally up to the challenges of globalisation. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the place to work on this model of a planetary code exists: it is the world customs organization in brussels, in partnership with the world trade organization in geneva. the sources of inspiration for this model code also exist: the tokyo convention and the brussels convention on customs value and rules of origin. the aim of this model customs code remains, namely a revolution in customs technology, to get out of the current archaism, with customs duties that would be modulable, refundable, subsidisable and negotiable. modular, depending on the difference in production costs from one country to another; refundable, in the form of a customs credit offered by the importing country to the exporting country; the commission has also proposed that the community should provide a financial contribution to the development of the acp countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's the wedding of ricardo, the free-trade man, and friedrich list, the protectionist.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is therefore preparing today to reform the internal part of the cmo in the banana sector, in order to adapt the aid scheme for european producers to the new world trade situation and to the principles of the new common agricultural policy. this amendment, which is the subject of the report submitted to the house today after being approved by a very large majority in parliament's committee on agriculture, is undoubtedly going in the right direction. for banana producers in the outermost regions, who account for more than 98% of eu production, it is planned to transfer an amount of almost €280 million per year to the posei programmes, which will bring greater flexibility and therefore better use of community funds. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for the reassessment of the sums allocated to this reform, which should make it possible to ensure the sustainability of the sector, particularly in the outermost regions where bananas play a fundamental economic and social role that no other agricultural production can compensate for. i should like to remind you, however, that the amounts proposed were calculated on the basis of the current customs tariff. however, uncertainty surrounding global trade negotiations suggests that this tariff level will fall further. the banana sector, at 176 euros per tonne, is already in a situation of extreme fragility which threatens the socioeconomic balance of many producing regions. a further reduction in the customs tariff would be the death knell for community banana production if no adjustments were made to the plan proposed by the commission. if the opening up of markets can help to boost production structures, it can only do so if the fundamental principles of regulation and fairness are met, namely the respect by the various producers of common rules which place them on an equal commercial footing, an equality which is clearly totally absent from world trade today, given the gap between the social and environmental standards of european countries and those of central and latin american countries. in view of this problem, the solution of which must remain a priority for the european union, aid to community banana producers is a necessity to compensate for the malfunctions of the world trade system. to be effective, these internal control measures must be in line with external control tools. it is with this in mind that the committee on agriculture insists on strengthening the evaluation measures provided for in the reform proposal, so that the commission can take concrete measures if the external tariff situation were to deteriorate, for example by increasing the amount of financial envelopes allocated to producers. the sustainability of the european banana sector also depends on its ability to optimise its production costs while respecting social rules and farmers' living standards. since the creation of the cmo, producer organisations have thus helped to achieve a better concentration of supply of community bananas on the market and have contributed to a significant reduction in the burden of banana cultivation in the union. it would be economically contradictory to break this dynamic today. we therefore consider it essential to maintain a relevant regulatory framework at community level for producer organisations in order to continue the efforts made to strengthen our production structures. as requested by the committee on agriculture, this will also have to be reflected in the obligation to be a member of a producer organisation in order to be eligible for the aid otherwise provided for under the posei envelope, except where circumstances do not allow it. finally, and this is my last point, there is the question of the management of aid. the system of production support under the current banana cmo provides for two-monthly advance payments which are essential for the sector's activities in the outermost regions as well as in the rest of the union's producing countries. the transfer of the funds to the posei programmes is not accompanied by a renewal of this system of advances, endangering the survival of the producers who would then be forced to borrow privately, even though the uncertainty characterising the business environment in this sector does not encourage banks to grant long-term loans. in this context of economic instability, it is up to the european public authorities to provide sufficient guarantees to ensure that the situation generated by these trade policy choices at world level does not run counter to the interests of the union's most vulnerable farmers.
bananas are a structural element of the economy of 4 of the 7 ors, due to the importance of european outlets and the exceptional need for labour it requires. our parliament must ensure that the proposed support is set at a sufficient level and takes account of possible changes in the tariff in the context of the wto negotiations. to deal with any deterioration in the incomes of producers, it is necessary to provide for an automatic revision clause and to re-establish the current system of financial advances, which are essential for the activity of the sector. overseas banana producers are waiting for a clear signal about the sustainability of the sector, to restore confidence in it. the caribbean banana sector, which has long been fragmented and inefficient, is now a model of organization whose efforts to restructure must be emphasized. i would remind you that the banana sector in the ors complies with the non-commercial criteria in force in the union, unlike its competitors in latin american countries. without the banana, which provides 15 000 jobs and is the economic backbone of these regions in terms of human, social and environmental needs, the whole of guadeloupe and martinique's agriculture would be threatened with extinction, in the absence of alternative production.
mr president, it is always a pleasure to welcome consensus and a good result, and i therefore join my colleagues in this. finally, the pyramid has been re-established: we have a common law instrument which has an end, 2013, and we have a mid-term review. we finally have a proper instrument. we have avoided the confusion of the genders: we do not talk about industrialized countries, we do not talk about human rights, we only talk about development. we can set clear objectives and remember our political priorities. finally, we have a legally based instrument, as the honourable members have pointed out, article 179, which re-establishes the codecision procedure: the european parliament would no longer be able to co-decide on development policy! we have finally got the financial envelopes to go by programme, so as to improve our control. i would therefore like to highlight the work of our rapporteur, mr mitchell, and the attention paid to the commission and the council. we have taken note, madam president, of the commission's commitments on our role in the mid-term review, which provided for the appropriate financial allocation, dialogue on strategy papers and, i would remind you, our priorities on health and education. finally, i think that parliament will adopt this report without any problems and without amendments. i shall not, for the sake of my own safety, refer to these amendments, which are certainly remote-controlled and suddenly outdated and surreal.
mr president, joint declaration on development, strategy for africa, commitment on the amounts of development aid... there is no doubt that the union has increased its political ambitions in development cooperation in recent years! with this new financing instrument, it will be able to equip itself with a tool that is commensurate with its ambitions. a seven-year financial programme devoted exclusively to international solidarity is a great victory for our partners in the south and a great victory for us as parliamentarians, because after two years of fighting with the council and the commission our main demands have been met: victory in the commitment to allocate at least 20% of the budget to basic education and health, in order to accelerate progress towards the millennium development goals; the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the international covenant on civil and political rights. the european union is also a victory in limiting the scope of the new instrument to the countries of the south alone, in order to avoid the gobbling up of development funds for other policies. finally, the inclusion of a mid-term review of this crucial instrument will give us the opportunity to get it back on track soon and possibly make the necessary improvements. this is a happy prospect, which allows us to conclude the procedure for examining this text with serenity. these victories will call for more: i am thinking in particular of the ongoing negotiations on edf programming, on which, as rapporteur, i will try to make the same priorities prevail. so, while it is true that, despite our efforts, we have not succeeded in getting the edf budgeted or in formally intervening in the comitology procedure to monitor the implementation of development policy as closely as possible, we must rejoice, on the other hand, at the very many victories, the foremost of which is the promotion of a generous vision of development policy. the union is now more than ever a leader in this field by adopting this instrument for development cooperation. it was already, by far, the world's leading donor in this field, it was doing more than anyone else in terms of international solidarity: now it will do better! today europe can be proud, i believe, of being true to its values of generosity and solidarity. i too would like to join in what has been said and thank the rapporteur, mr mitchell, and thank all those who have worked - my colleague max van den berg in particular - all those who have contributed greatly to this result. i hope that this report will be adopted without amendments.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, water is one of the most abundant resources on our planet: the seas and oceans cover 70% of the earth's surface and produce three quarters of the oxygen we breathe. yet, man can use only 1 percent of the water resources. many human activities put a significant strain on this resource. pollution, from whatever source, somehow returns to nature. this is therefore likely to be harmful to human health and the environment. this proposal for a directive is a step forward in the protection of groundwater and against its deterioration, since it incorporates the precautionary principle, in particular in article 6. it is now up to the member states to take the necessary measures to prevent and limit discharges of dangerous substances by defining areas to ensure the protection of the water bodies concerned. farmers will be able to obtain compensation to cover income losses that would be attributable to the obligations imposed in the protection zones, in particular drinking water catchment areas. the european parliament will also be more closely involved in future decisions, as it will be able to oppose any change to the lists of pollutants. i would therefore like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs klaß, mr florenz and mrs roth-behrendt, on the tenacity they have shown in conducting the negotiations with the council and the commission. the european parliament delegation thus obtained a tightening of the obligations imposed on the member states for the protection of groundwater. in these circumstances, i recommend that the joint text be adopted at third reading.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mr president of the commission, on behalf of the group of the european united left - nordic green left, i would like to welcome the two new commissioners, mrs kuneva and mr orban. my group will approve this double nomination. i would have preferred the president of the commission to have taken the opportunity of the completion of this stage of enlargement to have a substantive debate on a progress report from his college, to have a review of the cards, if necessary, within the enlarged commission and, finally, to have his team as a whole voted on by the members of parliament. at a time when so many questions are being asked about the functioning, the direction and the future of the union, this would not have damaged the authority of the commission or parliamentary democracy. that was not the choice, and we take note of that. but good luck to mrs kuneva and mr orban! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to add two small remarks to what mr titford has just said about these commissioners from two friendly nations - one slavic and the other latin - recently freed, it is true, from the yoke of communism, and which we hope will not fall under another yoke. the first point is that mr orban's portfolio, multilingualism, should be used primarily for the learning and use of the national languages of the member states, including within the european institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i have here the french versions of these reports: one of them was drawn up by mr pomés ruiz, the spanish rapporteur, on a bulgarian candidate; the other, by a hungarian rapporteur, on a romanian candidate! in these french versions, the biographies of the members of the court of auditors and the questionnaires are in english: this is an important project for mr orban, the one which consists in ensuring respect for linguistic diversity in our institutions! i would also like to wish mrs kuneva good luck. it was very difficult for him to defend the interests of his fellow bulgarians during the negotiations: i hope it will be easier for him to defend the interests of european consumers. finally, i would like to remind you of our opposition to the application of the protocol annexed to the treaty of nice, which provides that from the moment the european union has 27 members, the number of commissioners will be less than the number of member states, which would mean that some of them would not be represented in the institution. we have two and a half years left to demonstrate that such a measure is completely unnecessary and contrary to the equality of nations which should govern the destinies of our international organization.
i share your concern about flexibility, mr president. i'm very firm when we're running out of time. when possible, i think we should expand as much as possible. but what if the agenda is exhausted and the colleagues are exhausted?
of course, mr president, as long as the speakers in question are present, because a president cannot give the floor to absent members!
we now return to voting time.
mr president, i would like to make a point of order. i have to say - as i said earlier - that the report by mr pomés ruiz is not available in french, or, more precisely, the version of this report which is presented as the french version contains the biography of the candidate and a reply to questions in english only, which seems to me to be contrary to our rules of procedure.
mr gollnisch, you are a man of the rules, so i will be happy to give you the only real information: you are absolutely right, we must have the complete translations of all the texts put to the vote. and it is, all the texts put to the vote are available in all languages. the annexed documents are not at all subject to a vote, in accordance with our rules of procedure, and are therefore not translated in their entirety. you've been briefed!
the rapporteur. mr president, i want to say briefly that i hope we are getting ready to adopt this european instrument for democracy and human rights en masse because it is the only instrument that makes it possible to support projects to promote democracy in third countries without the endorsement of governments, the only instrument, therefore, that makes it possible to answer the questions that mr milinkievitch has just asked us: how do we support free media, how do we support independent civil society, how do we defend and protect human rights defenders in third countries without the endorsement of governments? the answer is in this instrument. (applause) i would like to thank
i understand that you are proposing an oral amendment to amendment no 147.
the rapporteur. mr president, you are well informed. this is an oral amendment to amendment no 147 which aims, to be exactly in the terms negotiated with the council, to replace the phrase 'including rights of migrants, asylum seekers and internally displaced persons' with 'including migrants' enjoyment of human rights, rights of asylum seekers and internally displaced persons'.
our voting session is closed.
in writing. the community action programme in the field of consumer protection for the period 2007-13 aims to 'complement, support and follow up' the policies of the member states. it will help to protect the health, safety, economic and legal interests of consumers and promote their right to information, education and organisation to defend their interests. the actions will help to ensure a high level of protection for all consumers in the union and to ensure the effective enforcement of consumer protection rules. i am also pleased that this programme has been divided into two parts, thus distinguishing between health and consumer protection. although i regret that the commission has reduced the financial envelope from €233.46 million - at first reading - to €156.8 million and that the number of actions in the field of consumer policy has been revised and reduced from twenty to eleven, i voted in favour of mrs thyssen's report, so that consumer organisations can benefit from this programme in the interests of our fellow european citizens.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would like to thank mrs hieronymi for the quality and also the quantity of her work. the directive we are proposing is a means of preserving the european audiovisual model in the new technological and economic conditions. advertising is limited to 12 minutes per hour. the committee on culture and education voted to maintain the time between two advertising screens at 45 minutes and not to reduce it to 35 or even 30 minutes, as the commission wants. i hope that this amendment, supported by the socialists, will be adopted in plenary. the advertising revenue of television channels should not suffer because, in the context of globalisation and the multiplication of transnational companies, the advertising demand is expanding and will continue to do so. product placement is prohibited, we note in the first paragraph. while exemptions are possible for films, television fiction and sports programmes, product placement is strictly regulated to avoid the abuses and perverse effects found in many countries, notably the united states. the regulation is extended in appropriate forms to new audiovisual services. i'm thinking in particular of video on demand, which is going to be a big development. the protection of minors and consumers, and of citizens in general, is ensured against incitement to all forms of discrimination and hatred. we are pleased to note that the new services will also have to play their part in supporting the production and promotion of european works. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the broadcasting of television programmes, which is intended to protect the public against the dangers of unfair competition. this compromise text, which was voted on in the committee on culture, preserves the essential points. it can and must be improved, and that is the subject of our amendments.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, the adoption of this amended tv sf directive will enable the various players to develop in a clear framework, responding to the requirements of the digital revolution and the knowledge economy. i would like to emphasize the positive aspect of the scope, with the non-linearity and the unambiguous exclusion of personal pages. the balance point was to be found between freedom of expression, freedom of information, freedom of access to new services such as vod and to valuable cultural and economic content. the emphasis on quality will help to strengthen the position of european production. the same applies to the promotion of european content. the directive offers real progress in terms of the protection of minors and places ethical limits on the use of advertising, but it must be confirmed, particularly in the area of health and the fight against obesity. i hope that parliament will confirm its support for my proposal to ban advertising of products which do not comply with child labour standards.
madam president, television is the main source of information and entertainment in europe, it touches every individual, of every age, every day. for more than 15 years, the 'television without frontiers' directive has been the benchmark for television regulation in europe. this directive has been able to ensure a common level of protection for important general policy objectives and to facilitate the distribution of television services across borders, thanks in particular to the principle of country of origin. it has also promoted freedom of expression and information and contributed significantly to the expression of cultural identities. however, with the digital age, convergence and the emergence of new audiovisual media services, a further revision of this regulatory framework has become necessary. the text before us today is a major step forward not only for the audiovisual media sector but also for the citizens of europe. it is the result of a genuine process of consultation and exchange, which has been carried out for several months by our rapporteur. i would like to congratulate her on the quality of her report and on the considerable effort she has made to tackle these most sensitive issues. taking account of the dual nature of audiovisual services, economic and cultural, the revision of the 'television without frontiers' directive makes it possible to draw the consequences of current technological developments and to adapt the community legal framework to future developments. in this respect, the very principle of extending the directive to new audiovisual media services is essential. as non-linear services increasingly compete with traditional services, their contribution to the promotion of cultural diversity is fundamental and in line with the objectives set out in the unesco convention. in addition, a major step forward was taken for linear services with the recognition of a right of access to short extracts. this right must, however, be exercised under reasonable conditions and in compliance with the exclusive rights. finally, as regards advertising, we have for the first time the opportunity to have clear rules on product placement: with the guarantees we are offered, product placement will open up new opportunities for european audiovisual production and creation, while ensuring consumer protection and information.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all those involved in this budgetary procedure and in particular our rapporteurs, mr louis grech, mr james elles, not to mention mrs ingeborg gräßle and mr giovanni pittella, and our secretariats. they have enabled us to draw up a budget which respects parliament's budgetary powers in general. this draft budget for the financial perspective is particularly delicate. we have taken account of the timing of the launch of the new programmes, while giving priority to the actions essential for european socialists: research, transport, innovation policies, social europe, environmental europe, knowledge europe, in short, a people's europe. the budgetary instrument of the european globalisation adjustment fund is setting up a new instrument of european solidarity. in external affairs we follow the guidelines of the specialised committees, which strike a balance between the thematic and the geographical approach. we were hoping that the new financial perspective would lead to better interinstitutional relations, and i cannot hide my disappointment in this respect. even our relations with the council are deteriorating. first of all, madam president, you have just reassured us of the commitments made by the council with regard to conciliation: we are in fact committed to this agreement on the financial regulation. however, you have often forgotten the powers of parliament and we have often felt that our rights were not respected. we also regret the contempt with which the new member states are treated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we therefore faced difficulties before we could agree on a suitable programme for 2007. commissioner, parliament has put at your disposal all the means you have asked for: adequate commitment appropriations, a low level of payments of 0.99% of gni, which you consider sufficient, and, above all, very few reserves. in return, we will be very careful that our vote is not distorted during the execution. to be clear, global transfer votes or sdrs as large as in the past are excluded. we will not obstruct the commission in the exercise of its prerogatives. we should instead be thinking about the balance between the resources of the staff and the implementation of the policies we are trying to promote. in the future, if we cut the budget too much, we will not be able to develop any of the policies that the citizens expect. the union is a big sick body, and we are giving it a particularly modest budget for 2007! the next budgets will have to be constructive and forward-looking, not defensive and aimed at curbing national egotism. for parliament, for the socialists, the european project is made up of real and financial solidarity, which, alas, the council forgets every day.
for the greens/efa group mr president, after hearing the commission and the council, i am pleased that agreement is in sight. i would remind you that parliament is prepared to increase the cfsp budget from 102 to 159 million, but it is prepared to do so because the council accepts its amendments, at least a large part of them, on the financial regulation. it's a package deal that can't be unraveled at the last minute! as regards the financial perspective, you know that our group voted against it, considering that the framework was too narrow: we will try our best now to put open inflections in it. among the open changes is support for studies on the added value of programmes, but we are already in the process of the planned phasing-out of programmes for 2008 and 2009. be careful, for us, doing more is not doing less! there is no question of withdrawing from the european union, which is why we are voting in favour of lifting the reserves. as regards the financial regulation, we also agree to simplify procedures so that everyone can better invest in the european project, and we believe that we can simplify procedures while maintaining transparency and control with great rigour: both seem possible to us. finally, our group has put forward an alternative package of increases for foreign policy programmes because it is felt that the stability instrument, which includes a preventive component, has suffered far too much from the cuts imposed in the financial perspective. be careful not to get stuck in the spotlight. it is true that the middle east is currently very affected, but in the balkans, the fire is still burning... i would like to conclude by thanking the four musketeers of the committee on budgets, james, louis, ingeborg and giovanni, without whom nothing would have been possible.
madam president, in early december, nasa announced that a budget had been passed for the installation of a station on the moon by 2020. we, in 2020, have a draft budget to enable a train to make the journey from hendaye in france to irún in spain. so the united states has a budget to go to the moon in a rocket and we have a budget to cross the pyrenees by train! how can this be explained? the united states has a budget policy of $2.5 trillion a year, while we have a budget of 122 billion euros. we are playing with 1260 amendments, we are playing with the global partnership, with europalia, with daphne and plan d, in short, we are going to be spitting on each other. we have only two serious budgetary policies, agricultural policy and regional policy. the remaining budget lines, in particular heading 3 'citizenship', represent a communication budget for women, for young people, for consumers, for the unemployed, for the dismissed, for victims of violence, etc. the real cause of this situation is not the absence of own resources: if there is a real blockage, it is the result of the ideology of budgetary equilibrium, which prevents the financing of exceptional expenditure by exceptional resources, that is to say borrowing, borrowing for the major european networks, the railway network, for example. the real budgetary debate, ladies and gentlemen, is not about voting for or against a european tax in 2014, but for or against a european loan to finance the future of research, transport, health or education.
madam president, i simply wanted to say that we regret the organisation of the second reading debate in its present form. the committee on budgets has always done a great deal of work, and we are rewarded by the time we have to present our work and explain how we have worked and what we have achieved. it would have been extremely interesting to have had several other members taking part in this debate and to have heard the commissioner's and possibly the council's reply. all too often we are not taken into account in the organisation of the plenary. we are once again seeing that there are more than ten minutes left which several of our colleagues could have used to present their work for the year.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank parliament and in particular the rapporteur, mrs bachelot, for her tireless efforts to make progress in the negotiations on the european globalisation adjustment fund. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the finnish presidency for its efforts to ensure that the egf proposal is adopted at first reading. the fact that the fund will be adopted at first reading is a clear political signal. it shows that the european union cares about its citizens. we should not forget why this fund is created. no one disputes the benefits of global trade to our labour markets and our economies. in some areas, however, the opening up of world trade has caused changes in the structure of our economies, and this has resulted in significant job losses. many times we can anticipate change, we can respond at a given stage with existing support mechanisms such as the european social fund, but sometimes it is simply impossible to predict where and when job losses will occur and how much impact they will have, and now the egf will help us to respond to such crises. from the outset, the commission has highlighted the importance of this fund for european citizens. this fund is a very concrete expression of european solidarity. for example, in recent years the egf has been able to play a role in compensating for the significant job losses that have occurred as a result of changes in the textile industry. when the textile and clothing quotas were abolished under the wto agreement on textiles and clothing at the end of 2004, many workers in the sector in europe were at risk of redundancy. the regions affected included valencia and catalonia in spain and the south-west region of the czech republic. similarly, in recent years there have been significant redundancies in the footwear industry, for example in the french region of pas de la loire, also in the hungarian region of western danube. this is where the egf could help workers find new jobs, acquire new skills and qualifications or take the big step of starting their own business. the commission proposal was based on the council's mandate to set up a fund specifically designed to provide additional support for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in the nature of world trade. the criteria for aid proposed by the commission reflect the council's request that assistance from the fund be subject to clear criteria depending on the extent of the disturbance and its impact on local, regional and national economies. in the current version of the text adopted, the positions of parliament and the council are optimally balanced. both the council and the parliament supported the criteria for granting aid, which apply to large companies on the one hand and to smes on the other. the flexibility clause, which should take account of the concerns of member states with smaller labour markets as well as exceptional cases, has also received strong support. the regulation also provides member states with the opportunity to support a wide range of measures with the fund, depending on the nature of the crisis and the specific situation in each member state. i would like to thank you again, and especially mrs bachelot, for your efforts to get the fund set up and running from the beginning of 2007. now we must work together to ensure that all our instruments and policies benefit europeans. i am convinced that the combination of policies and efforts at national and eu level with the european social fund and now also the globalisation adjustment fund will bring real improvements for our people.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will be voting for the third time on the globalisation adjustment fund. the founding act of the project was the adoption of the böge report on the financial perspective 2007-2013. article 28 of the interinstitutional agreement thus defines, in addition to the draft fund, the annual amount of 500 million, budgeted over seven years, as well as part of the budgetary procedure. the second validation was expressed in the framework of the own-initiative report by jean louis cottigny on restructuring and employment, adopted last march: the latest events in the automobile sector tend to reinforce our vigilance on the future of economic sectors that are weak or in decline. i would like to take this opportunity to express my thoughts and solidarity with the workers affected by the accident at volkswagen in forest. parliament therefore expressed its support on two occasions for the conclusions of the hampton court summit, which endorsed the draft fund conceived by commission president josé manuel barroso. the committee on employment and social affairs adopted the report on the draft regulation on thursday, 26 october, by a very large majority, and this serves as the basis for the trilogue negotiations to obtain an agreement at first reading, so that, as you said, commissioner, the fund can be operational as from 1 january. the trilogue negotiations were concluded successfully on thursday, 30 november, with my agreement and that of president andersson and president lewandowski and the rapporteur for the opinion, esko seppänen, on the budgetary part, where he had enhanced cooperation. i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs for their constructive spirit - this is your report, mr jean louis cottigny, mr jean marie beaupuy and mrs elisabeth schroedter - and the group coordinators. i would also like to thank the representatives of the commission and the finnish presidency. the day after the trilogue, the agreement was ratified in the council by coreper: the agreement at first reading for the creation of the egf is therefore in the hands of the european parliamentarians, who will vote tomorrow. four principles have guided the work of our committee on employment and social affairs and we have preserved them throughout the debate. the first principle is european added value. it is not a question of substituting ourselves for the member states in the social treatment of industrial accidents. the egf will focus its assistance on emblematic cases of social disasters of european dimension following a change in the structure of international trade. the european parliament has therefore insisted in particular that the 50% co-financing rule be introduced in article 10 of our rules of procedure, thus marking european ambition and not the provision of european aid to national dossiers. we have also introduced the transnational element in certain cases. the second principle is responsibility. the european union, which is responsible for international trade negotiations, thus bears the potential consequences of its strategic choices. our responsibility is to take on board the positive aspects of globalisation, but also to take into account its potentially negative effects. third principle is justice. justice first, because we are addressing men and women. we have also rejected discrimination against small labour markets, which will now be eligible through the safeguard clause and the extension of the provisions of article 2 (b). the fourth principle is efficiency. in article 3 on eligible actions, we have clearly prohibited passive social protection measures. we want active measures to reintegrate workers, especially older workers, who must not be condemned to forced early retirement or prolonged unemployment. the egf programme thus finds its place in the lisbon strategy, as it will contribute to european competitiveness. efficiency also means monitoring and evaluating the process, which our parliament has placed a great deal of emphasis on. our aim is indeed to provide europe, through the egf, with an instrument similar to that which has already existed for 40 years in the united states with the trade adjustment act, which last year helped more than 170 000 american workers, of whom more than 75% have returned to longterm employment. many of my colleagues support the idea of the fund, but regret the lack of money. i understand them. i would like to stress, however, that this is an experimental approach which will have to be analysed, refined and supplemented. this experimental approach will be the first step towards establishing a genuine overall strategy for europe in globalisation. this strategy does not exist today and we cannot remain for long the only strategic trading player in the world without such a road map.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs roselyne bachelot, not because it is the custom, but because she has made her mark on this report. in the course of our work, she was able to establish a constructive spirit with all the rapporteurs and groups, which now allows us to examine a report at first reading, which was unthinkable until a while ago. yes, ladies and gentlemen, much to the chagrin of those who think that europe is just a large market without a political objective, the european globalisation adjustment fund is about to be launched. it is true that the birth may have been painful and that, unfortunately, the case of the employees of volkswagen-forest, on whom i cannot help thinking tonight, has weighed heavily in the balance. it has enabled the project's critics to become aware of the usefulness of the fund and, moreover, of its necessity. it is clear that the european socialists were not prepared to accept any compromise to get this agreement at first reading, but we are really satisfied with the results of the trilogue. we welcome the incorporation of the fund regulation, the assurances we have obtained thanks to the tenacity of the members of the committee on budgets, the introduction of safeguard clauses to assist employees who have been made redundant, the creation of the european single window which will guarantee equal access to information for all, the validation of the gains of experience, which is a recognition for employees who find themselves on the street after years of work, the financing of cooperative projects and the obtaining of micro-credits, the maintenance of article 10, which sets the participation rate of the european adjustment fund at 50% in the preparation of dossiers, making this fund a european tool in its own right. of course, an agreement is never perfect, it is the result of a compromise. the socialists, for example, regret that the european budget does not exceed eur 115.5 billion in the funds allocated to the fund today. it's a shame we didn't see bigger for this budget. the agreement at first reading will make the fund operational from 1 january. it gives rise to hope that the construction of a social europe will finally begin. it is important to understand that precariousness and competition between european employees are not the norm. it is up to europe to guarantee the protection of workers. the only way to reconcile citizens with their institutions is through social europe. this fund represents a first step towards a more united europe. today, citizens expect europe to contribute to the security of their jobs and their way of life, just as it has been able to guarantee peace and stability for almost fifty years.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presence, and above all, thank you to roselyne bachelot, who, as my colleague mr cottigny has just said, has succeeded in bringing together the ideas of all the members of parliament: it is certainly not that she lacks ideas, but the fact that she has supplemented them with the ideas of all the members has indeed enriched the debate. i would also like to thank you, commissioner špidla, for the participation of the commission, which, following the wishes of the council, has proposed a text on which we have been able to work. i note tonight that the council is not very well represented: perhaps the small number is offset by the quality of the people present. finally, we have reached an agreement, and that is the main thing. once again, for those who doubt that parliament is capable of enriching the texts proposed to it by the commission, well, tonight we are giving proof of that! i would not like to go back on what roselyne bachelot has so well summed up. i would like to stress, however, a point which seems to me to be essential in the positive aspect of the text submitted to us, which i have no doubt we will adopt tomorrow: it is the very active aspect we will bring to bear in the field of the requalification, reintegration and reintegration of employees who will be affected by these phenomena of globalisation when they lose their jobs. we have insisted in our various debates that workers, through training, help in setting up businesses or skills assessments, to name just a few examples, should be able to benefit immediately from this money in order to find a job. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the fund. jean-louis cottigny, with all his obvious qualities of human kindness, his desire to create a social europe, etc., has just said all the hopes we have. i say 'attention': we have only 500 million and even if we had more, is it the european union's job to take the place of the training bodies, the state, the regions, the municipalities and all the other players, and there are many of them? secondly, it must be clear that this system exists only when, unfortunately, a company has to close its accounts and cease its activities. the same applies to its suppliers, its various service providers. a week ago in brussels, under the chairmanship of commissioner špidla, a two-day forum on restructuring was held. i should like to say at this point how important the work undertaken by the european union on these restructuring measures is, because it will make it possible, in a dynamic way, to avoid a number of negative effects and, therefore, plant closures. i believe that the communication we must make, and you in particular, commissioner, and our bodies in the commission in general, is to show that on the one hand there is a human will to provide new means through this globalisation fund, and that on the other hand europe, in the main of this budget, is devoting itself to adapting to the modernisation of our european union so that our general economy, and therefore ultimately our employees, are better able to dominate the developments in the world. i believe that this is the message that must be conveyed so that we do not have a communication that is oversimplified and that is a penalty for the whole of the european union.
mr president, like my colleagues, i welcome the creation of this fund, which has given rise to great hope among employees concerned about relocations and has given rise to a great deal of debate in our respective committees, particularly on its amount, on the criteria for allocation and, therefore, on the risks of unequal treatment between regions which might result. but it is important for european workers to know that the union has finally decided to take account of the job losses that poorly controlled globalisation can cause in each of our countries, especially in regions with traditional industries. i join in congratulating mrs bachelot and all the rapporteurs on their thorough work and i am delighted that the fund will be operational from 1 january 2007. i am, however, as many others, sorry that the fund's grant threshold has not been lowered, that its allocation has not been increased and permanently affected and that it cannot be used for relocations within the european union, which is the largest. but this fund exists and it will have to be made operational very quickly because there is an urgency, as the news frequently shows us, and then we must assess its scope and usefulness, to correct it and replenish it if necessary. i am also pleased that there is an obligation to inform the workers and the regions that will benefit from it, because anything that helps to strengthen the sense of the added value of the european union in terms of cohesion and solidarity among our citizens, who are often sceptical, is welcome.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a discussion that has covered the fund from all angles and i don't think there's been any important issue that hasn't been considered and evaluated. i can therefore be very brief and let me just highlight a few of the elements that were very clear in the debate. the fund is not a panacea, it is not a cure for all diseases, it is only an addition to our arsenal, an addition that is useful and that we have evaluated from many different angles. the bottom line is that this supplement is effective and is able to provide help to a lot of people in a relatively very short time. another important point i would like to make is that this fund is directed at people, so the argument that it is in favour of big business is not true. it's a fund that's directed at individual workers, and that's why i think it's important to keep this question in mind. another question that was implicitly expressed in a number of statements and speeches was the concern whether the criteria that are being set are really the best ones. i think we can say with good conscience that these criteria have been considered extremely carefully by all the participants who have been involved in the work and in the creation of this fund. no human work can ever give us absolute certainty. there is an idea in the regulation for a rendezvous clause which will allow for consideration of further changes relatively quickly in the light of experience gained. yet, as this debate has also convinced me, it is clear that all the criteria have been very deeply considered from all the points of view that are relevant. as far as the individual amendments are concerned, i can say clearly that the commission can accept all the amendments on which the agreement on the first reading is based. i sincerely hope that the vote on the proposal tomorrow will be a success and that the regulation will be able to enter into force on 1 january. let me quote the words of mr remek. it is a saying that is generally understood, yet often used in the czech language: "he who gives quickly gives twice". if we can get the fund set up by january 1st, it will certainly be a significant help, much more significant than if the same thing happened weeks or months later. the european parliament can send a positive signal to the european citizens by voting tomorrow. i think that was also brought up in the discussion from many angles.
the adoption of the report on the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is to be welcomed as a new eu positioning in addressing the social consequences of globalisation. its establishment in january 2007 reflects the european institutions' determination to provide an effective response to relocations and to put the social rights of the individual at the centre of the system. the fund will provide one-off, individual assistance to workers made redundant as a result of globalisation, to help them to re-enter the labour market. while it is recognised that opening up economies to competition is generally positive for growth and competitiveness, it can also lead to painful restructuring and sharp job losses. the case of volkswagen in belgium is a perfect illustration of this. it is true that instruments to support employees affected by globalisation-related restructuring already exist at member state level. however, the adoption of this report creates an instrument at community level to express eu solidarity. this fund meets a strong expectation of citizens and demonstrates the eu's ability to react quickly when people's solidarity is at stake.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr groote, mrs anja weisgerber and mr martin callanan, as well as the finnish presidency, who have done a remarkable job on this matter in order to find a satisfactory compromise position both within the council and with all the members of the european parliament. the euro 5 standard will make a significant contribution to further improving air quality. the euro 5 standard, by establishing harmonised rules for the construction of motor vehicles with regard to their emissions to air, is part of a more general strategy to address the harmful effects of air pollution on health and the environment. this is a big step. the timetable for the implementation of euro 5 and euro 6 standards, with 2009 and 2014 as the entry into force dates respectively, is certainly demanding but also manageable for the economic sector, and the introduction of a one-year deadline for adopting implementing measures will bring more flexibility for industry, which i welcome. as regards access to vehicle repair information, which is a problem for manufacturers and smes, i am finally satisfied with the compromise reached on this subject and with the use, as a first step, of the oasis standard. i am particularly pleased that the provisions on access to technical information have been revised and consolidated in the context of the revision of the directive on the approval procedure, which we owe to anja weisgerber. finally, i believe that we must remain vigilant on the question of renewing the car fleet within the union. i would like europe to act as a driving force and encourage the emerging countries, where the number of vehicles on the road is constantly increasing, to gradually catch up with the euro emission standards. we now want an agreement at first reading on the basis of this compromise.
mr president, the european institutions are finally doing the basics. what is the european union? what does she want? who can participate? i hope that our european parliament, thanks to the stubb and brok resolutions, will make a clear contribution to unmasking the false appearances and putting an end to the leap forward in the enlargement strategy. the capacity for integration is very well defined by the three elements in paragraph 8 of the elmar brok report. we believe that priority should be given to political projects and not just to institutions. we do not want enlargement to lead to the dismantling of common policies. the ability to integrate, as alexander stubb has just defined it, is not a membership criterion, it is true, but a condition for membership. in the meantime, we agree with alexander stubb that further enlargement cannot take place without new decision-making mechanisms, new resources and new representation of the union. this is the conclusion we draw from the dramatic confrontation which is taking place between the accession of the twelve new member states to the union, which is a success, and the treaty of nice, which is totally inadequate. let us reason with the same lucidity in the case of turkey. the general affairs council has noted the consequences of the situation in cyprus, which is of course intolerable, but is this not just another diplomatic hoax? the suspension may be ineffective and have no effect on turkey's attitude. our position must be reaffirmed: the union is not meant to integrate turkey, but must establish a privileged partnership with this country, which is essential for europe. let us stop pretending, it is in the interests of both turkey and the european union. enlargement is not an end in itself, it is a means of building the political project of europe.
mr president, we too will vote against this report because it has sought to distance itself from the wise europe of the origins, that is to say, a europe of the six, six states cooperating in order to establish the atlantic balance. the ideologues of supranationality have over-enlarged their project by extending it to everything, without even knowing where their borders were. but now that they have pulverized the internal frontiers and have lost sight of what a frontier is, these europe-lovers do not know where to stop. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today, these europe-lovers are discovering that there is always someone behind the wall, that it is always necessary to widen it further, since one cannot say no to anyone. they are deprived of any constitution - make no mistake about it! - deprived of any constitution at all. they are faced with an immense vacuum, forced either to retreat, that is to say to invent a pragmatic europe with two or three speeds, which would be the most reasonable, or to embark on a dizzying flight forward. here they are engaged with turkey, here they are faced with new candidate countries in the caucasus, for example: after all, georgia is a member of the council of europe... why not the countries of the maghreb or lebanon, whose history is so closely linked to that of our nations? well, let's get to it! since this poor europe is already without a backbone, let us expand it constantly and let us not forget the states that have been curiously left out, serbia, russia, etc., perhaps because these countries are reluctant to accept american hegemony? that is all, mr president, about the bankruptcy, yes, the bankruptcy of the so-called european union.
mr president, i would first like to thank mr stubb for his work on this very sensitive subject. the report has the merit of addressing the problem of the capacity for integration from different angles. i am therefore pleased that the text does not simply address the institutional aspects of this issue but also emphasises other major reforms, without which the union would not be able to welcome new members. i am thinking in particular of the revision of the union's financing system. i am also grateful to the rapporteur for having succeeded in ensuring the neutrality of this report vis-à-vis the applicant countries and avoiding the pitfall of expressing a position on the entry of one or another country. finally, this report rightly stresses the increased role that parliament should be given, not only in the context of the accession processes but also in the context of future institutional reforms. i would, however, like to make one criticism: it seems to me that the rapporteur, perhaps wanting to do too much, has somewhat diverted the report from its original purpose by making it more a report on the whole of the necessary reforms within the european union than on the more specific question of the capacity for integration. it would have been better, in my view, rather than listing a long list of institutional reforms, to concentrate on the only reforms which are the real prerequisites for any further enlargement.
thank you, commissioner, for that conclusion in french. the rest is up to each individual to decide what content of the subject matter he or she finds interesting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. pending the vote and resumed at 12.05 p.m.) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
mr president, allow me to make a point of order: there are - inevitably - many small difficulties in this text, many slight contradictions between the language versions. we did not want to raise these difficulties - i agree with what ruth hieronymi has just said. we think that in such an important debate, we should vote with the utmost simplicity. i would, however, like to see these linguistic contradictions removed when the text is passed from the commission to the council. that is why, mr president, i would like to see their existence mentioned in our minutes and that they are taken into account, because every word counts in a matter of such importance.
the rapporteur. mr president, thank you for giving me the floor. i would naturally like to thank mr lewandowski for withdrawing the amendments from the committee on budgets, which will make our task considerably easier. we are on the verge of an agreement at first reading and it will be a triple victory: a victory for european workers, a victory for the smooth functioning of our institutions and, i believe, a victory for ourselves, because we will have overcome our political and national divisions.
in writing. with today's vote, the eu has a text that is far from achieving the desired objectives. the project was ambitious: to adopt legislation allowing the registration and evaluation of chemicals with an obligation to substitute dangerous products when a less harmful alternative exists. this project did not withstand pressure from certain chemical industry lobbies, strongly echoed in the european parliament, which preferred to assert economic constraints at the expense of environmental protection and public health in order to obtain less restrictive legislation, in particular on substitution. i also regret that endocrine disruptors are excluded from the substitution procedure and that the chemical safety report is not mandatory for substances produced between one and ten tonnes. the agreement reached was insufficient, but rejecting it would have been to risk opening the conciliation procedure and ultimately producing a text that was completely devoid of meaning. this legislation, although insufficient, does exist and it is only on this merit that we are now mobilizing to demand financial and human resources to implement this regulation, to make progress and to ensure very gradual substitution.
in writing. the text put to the vote today brings to an end seven long years of hard work and debate between the chemical industry, which has been overusing the arguments of competitiveness and employment to defend the status quo, which is in its own financial interests, and european officials, who are keen to achieve responsible regulation to protect citizens from the dangers of dangerous chemicals in consumer products. of course, as is often the case, the result is not entirely in line with our expectations. as a result, the number of products covered by the reach regulation is only 30 000 compared to the 100 000 that were intended. but the progress is remarkable, especially when we consider that only 3 000 substances are currently being studied, or that it will now be the chemical industry that will bear the burden of proof of the toxicity of products, that is to say, that they are not harmful to humans. in the end, thanks to the tenacity of the socialist rapporteur, guido sacconi, the european union will have the most stringent legislation in the world on this subject. that is why i wholeheartedly supported the adoption of this text at second reading.
in writing. this agreement on reach will provide better protection for health and the environment and our european industry will have to be more responsible while remaining competitive on the global market. the text adopted contains a number of important improvements: reduction of bureaucracy, reduction of unnecessary testing, better protection of confidential information from companies and introduction of a compulsory substitution plan. the regulation will clarify legislation: the chemical sector is currently subject to some 40 european directives. the regulation will allow the registration of more than 30 000 chemical substances by the european chemicals agency over the next 11 years. i regret, however, that a lasting solution to the problem of imports from third countries has not been found. european importers of chemicals must register them, a procedure subject to reach. the problem is the import of finished products, the substances of which will simply be notified.
in writing. it is very important that the european union has a harmonised system for the registration, authorisation and control of chemical substances. an isolated member state cannot establish an effective system. this system must reduce the risks to our health and the environment and encourage innovation and support for economic activities that do not pollute. the compromise adopted today is a good response to the challenge of ambitious legislation which aims above all to create an effective system of protection for the individual, without hindering economic development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the compromise reached with the council on reach on 30 november, along with the three main political groups (epp-ed, pse and alde), so that our citizens can have legislation on the use of chemicals in our everyday products in place quickly - it is due to come into force on 1 april 2007. this is certainly a less ambitious compromise than the one i was seeking when i took the position at first reading that chemicals of 'extreme concern' should be replaced by compulsory substitution where safer alternatives exist. nevertheless, this compromise, the result of three years of preparation and difficult negotiations, is a delicate but necessary balance between the need to protect health and the environment and the competitiveness of enterprises. i hope, however, that the framework provided by reach will still allow substitution to gain real recognition, even if in practice a large number of toxic substances will escape it. it is the monitoring and control of the implementation of these regulations that will contribute to the consolidation of a stronger reach.
in writing. at first reading, we voted against the reach regulation on chemicals, considering that the amendments adopted did not allow us to achieve the balance announced between the three objectives of this regulation: protection of health and the environment, competitiveness and innovation and substitution of dangerous substances by alternative products that are less harmful or harmless. the compromise proposed today is not much more balanced. it is true that it has made considerable progress, as many speakers have pointed out in the debate: simplification of registration, increased practicability, some progress - insufficient - for smes, for example. but it also has its shortcomings and ambiguities, particularly as regards the constraints on imports and the disadvantages which may result for european manufacturers; it also concerns the application of the principle of substitution for dangerous substances alone, which is already a step forward, but without ensuring its effectiveness even if technically and economically viable alternatives exist. changing one imbalance for another is not the answer. none of the three initial aims of the directive will be achieved, nor will the simplification of legislation or its compatibility with other community legislation.
in writing. the fund is a new tool: for the first time, the eu will no longer only help companies or local authorities, but directly employees who have lost their jobs because of relocation. the european parliament has wanted to extend the benefit of this fund to the 'small labour markets' if redundancies have a serious impact on employment and the local economy. this opens up promising prospects for the most vulnerable areas in my region and i am delighted about this. i am also pleased with the unwavering commitment of the european socialists, who have strongly and tenaciously defended the introduction of this tool and have proposed many amendments to extend its implementation, amount and number of beneficiaries. it is a first step towards a more social and more united europe. the eu cannot, however, simply "cure the wounds" of globalisation. today, citizens expect europe to contribute to the security of their jobs and their way of life, just as it has been able to guarantee peace and stability for almost 50 years.
in writing. meps from the movement for france in the european parliament have refused to support the compromise proposed for the second reading vote on the draft directive on dangerous substances, known as reach. after its examination by the various european institutions, little remains of the original good intentions. the compromise text voted this morning is thus very inadequate in terms of environmental and consumer protection. furthermore, the new burdens it imposes on european companies are not offset by similar obligations imposed on imports of finished products, creating a distortion of competition which puts european industry at risk.
in writing. closely linked to the ambition of building a european union that brings people closer together, intercultural dialogue is now an important dimension of many community policies and instruments. i therefore welcome the adoption at second reading of the decision establishing the 2008 european year of intercultural dialogue. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs and security at first reading, i hope that this european year will enable all citizens, especially young people, to become aware of the need for intercultural dialogue in their everyday lives. it should highlight best practice in this area, in particular with regard to the integration of immigrants, in continuity with the actions undertaken in 2007 during the european year of equal opportunities for all. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. i am not sure how to describe ms bachelot-narquin's report on the european globalisation adjustment fund. yes, because under a tempting headline that makes it seem that brussels will help the economic and social victims of unbridled globalisation, there is a more down-to-earth reality: the criteria and modalities for allocating this fund give rise to fears that it will not go to the employees or the employment pools that need it. they can even encourage companies to adopt circumvention strategies or to look for bargaining chips. i am sure that the european social fund will be of help. the commission is pretending to help to mitigate the consequences of its own globalist economic and trade policies. it would be cheaper for the commission to challenge them for the benefit of european businesses and workers. but not useless for everyone, and especially very useful for brussels propaganda. article 9 of the regulation, which was reinforced by mrs bachelot's amendment no 38, provides that the member states must make it widely known that it is the commission which pays. as if this money did not come from the budget of the states, that is to say, from the pockets of the europeans themselves!
in writing. this european fund, with a maximum of eur 500 million per year, is intended to cushion the shocks of globalisation for workers affected by restructuring. this is not new aid to the firm but supplementary aid to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of changes in world trade. it will be granted under three conditions: at least 1 000 redundancies, with a serious impact on employment and the local economy and linked to a disruption in world trade. it can therefore only be used in the event of 'major changes in the structure of world trade leading to serious economic disruption', such as a massive increase in imports, a gradual decline in the eu market share in a sector, or a shift to third countries. i welcome the adoption of the globalisation adjustment fund, which will address citizens' concerns about the negative effects of globalisation and contribute to greater economic and social cohesion within the european union.
in writing. unlike the rapporteur, i do not believe that globalisation is a good thing for france and europe. the financial benefits of multinationals are one thing, the economic and social benefits in terms of employment and the defence of the european industrial fabric are another. the creation of a european globalisation adjustment fund, under the guise of trying to remedy relocations, will be just another bureaucratic and demagogic tool. if the europeans wanted to be more efficient and logical with themselves, they should have thought of improving and strengthening the european social fund. i believe that only the application of national and community preference and protection could save our jobs by redefining fair rules of world trade. the adjustment fund is also unacceptable, in particular because it seeks to challenge the action of the states, considering that solidarity efforts should be carried out only at the level of the european union and no longer at national or regional level. economic painkillers of this kind will not alleviate the social suffering of our peoples. the day of reckoning is approaching.
in writing. i voted in favour of the compromise on the creation of a european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). globalisation is a reality that can be beneficial when it is just and equitable. however, when globalisation has negative effects on workers, the european union must, in the interests of solidarity, correct the consequences of changes in the structure of world trade. the fund, which amounts to eur 500 million, will not be used to finance the restructuring of companies but to help workers made redundant, particularly in their reintegration into the labour market. the egf is an important instrument because it shows that the european union is fully aware of the social impact of globalisation and is not indifferent to the fate of workers. it was in 2005, seeing the impact of liberalisation and competition on the textile and clothing sector, and more particularly on its employees, that the idea of such a fund was born. it was only in 2007, two years later, that this fund became effective and responded in a concrete way to the expectations of the workers made redundant. yes, europe can be close to its citizens, and today it is proving it!
in writing. globalisation has negative consequences for the most vulnerable and least skilled workers in some sectors. the relocation of workers creates a climate of social insecurity which is detrimental to social progress. companies are taking advantage of a new freedom that ignores frontiers, leaving behind a cohort of employees, often with little training, who will have the greatest difficulty in finding work. 11 000 jobs have been relocated in the last 12 months in france. the fear of relocation is spreading from region to region, with nearly 1 000 jobs being lost every month, a figure which is more than enough to fuel social unrest. i voted in favour of mrs bachelot's report because it provides a first response to the legitimate concerns of european workers. the creation of a european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) will provide €500 million in annual support to workers affected by international restructuring to help them reintegrate into the labour market. the assistance provided by the egf should thus provide solidarity and support for workers made redundant as a result of changes in the structure of world trade, even if this fund is likely to prove insufficient.
in writing. transport is responsible for a large part of environmental pollution and has a major impact on climate change. the new euro 5 standard will focus on particulate matter and nitrogen oxides (nox) emitted by diesel vehicles. this further tightening of vehicle emission limits for particulate matter and nox is a significant step forward in terms of public health. the adoption of this report will strengthen the european union's commercial potential in the field of clean vehicle design and construction. the future euro 6 standard will contain restricted emission limits, in particular for nitrogen oxides, and at the same time stimulate technological research for the automotive industry. the text adopted also proposes a demanding but feasible implementation timetable for these two standards in the automotive sector. i believe, however, that we must continue to pay attention to the renewal of the car fleet and thus implement the latest euro standards if we are to hope for significant results on air quality.
mr president, bananas have been the subject of a real soap opera since the 1990s. in europe we consume bananas from three regions: european bananas from the french west indies, the canary islands and the azores, some 850 000 tonnes; bananas from the acp countries and, finally, dollar bananas grown in latin america for chiquita and dole. ten years ago, the customs duty on the 2.5 million tonnes of american bananas was almost 850 euros per tonne. today, they are 176 euros. in other words, europe is giving a gift of 2 billion euros to american multinationals. and these bananas are grown in ecuador by ten-year-olds who are paid $2 a day, who inhale pesticides, who have asthma, who have balance problems, who suffer from cerebral ataxia. elsewhere, similar conditions exist for those who work in greenhouses where roses are grown. under these circumstances, a carton of 18 kilos of bananas can be sold for 3 dollars in germany. it's called slavery. but it is true that our parliament also uses a form of slavery when it employs the auxiliary members of the assembly. my god, we're not even close to a slave!
in writing. no, the adoption of a constitution, the creation of a centralized european superstate are by no means an indispensable prerequisite for the enlargement of the european union. we will therefore, of course, vote against mr stubb's report, which attempts to bring in through the window this constitution which two european peoples have let out through the door. we must also ask ourselves, beyond these so-called 'institutional' aspects, which are more ideological in nature, whether it is not time to take a break. the european union has grown from 15 to 27 members in a very short time, and soon to 28. no one in this house is able to say today, beyond the agreed speeches, what the costs and benefits of this unprecedented enlargement are, either for the eu or for each of our states. enlargement for the sake of enlargement has no meaning except, as we object, the absorption of the nation states by the brussels leviathan and their eventual disintegration. none of these problems would arise if we were to build a true europe of sovereign nations, cooperating in the fields of their choice and for their mutual benefit.
in writing. the current enlargement strategy of bringing together some 40 states will lead brussels europe to suffer the fate of the frog of jean de la fontaine, which, wanting to be as big as the ox, burst. there are two reasons for this. the first is that, given that it has no geographical boundaries, this europe, having welcomed turkey, will have no reason to refuse entry to other asian or african countries. the second reason is linked to the ideological nature of the euro-brussels project, which aims to break the identity and sovereignty of the european nations and to create on their ruins a centralized superstate, whose administration will be even more burdensome than the national administrations. instead of dissolving our peoples into this supranational entity, which is destined to disappear like the soviet union and yugoslavia, let us build a great europe of free and sovereign nations, united by the humanistic and christian values which have made our civilization great.
in writing. there is a lot of talk about 'capacity for integration' in mr brok's report on the enlargement strategy, which is only intended to satisfy the interests and appetites for power of brussels. the report says that this 'capacity' should not be confused with 'the public perception of the impact of further enlargements'. you're wrong. firstly, because it is the citizens of the member states who are at the forefront of the economic and social consequences of enlargement and who therefore deserve to be heard. secondly, because they are the ones who will ultimately decide on these accessions. in france, for example, a referendum will be compulsory for any accession after croatia's. this is the "gift" that a defeated chirac has given us in an attempt to avoid a "no" vote on the european constitution. i also regret that the question of the geographical boundaries of europe and the definition of its common identity is never raised. it would be a good way of saying that turkey is a large country, but it is essentially, geographically, culturally, historically, demographically, an asian country. and that would put an end to the humiliating charade that these accession negotiations have become for her.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, madam minister, the introduction of the automated targeting system - known as ats - by the us authorities constitutes a gigantic database of european citizens entering the territory of the united states. it once again underlines the different approach europe wants to take in this area and the growing need for greater protection of european citizens' privacy and personal data. we believe that the fight against terrorism cannot be effective if we treat every person as a potential criminal. there are also real risks of discrimination. we also want to know how this system works with the processing of pnr data. will it influence the negotiations on the agreement to be concluded in 2007? the data from the ats automated targeting system would be stored for 40 years. is this also the wish of the americans for pnr data? will the pnr agreement finally allow european citizens to assert their privacy rights before a us court, which is not the case at present? it is therefore essential to start a process of parliamentary dialogue with our colleagues in the us congress to jointly define a common approach to protecting the right to security and the protection of personal data of our citizens. i would remind you that exactly one year ago, we were debating data retention in this very house and in the context of that debate i already mentioned the urgency of adopting the framework decision on data protection under the third pillar. we had voted an amendment to the legislative resolution which provided that access to data would be regulated by this framework decision. i must say that the finnish presidency has made a real effort. the discussions within the council were considerably intensified, however, we are extremely concerned about the direction the discussions are taking between the member states. we are afraid that the council will empty this framework decision of its content. we cannot accept an agreement based on the lowest common denominator. the framework decision must ensure a high level of data protection by taking over the basic principles of the community directive in this area and taking into account, of course, the specific nature of police work. however, we cannot accept a lower level of data protection than that provided by directive 95/46/ec and by convention no 108 of the council of europe, which is legally binding on the member states. the necessary speed must not jeopardise the quality of the framework decision. we want to have a frank debate, which will allow us to reach an agreement without deleting the articles that are problematic. we particularly emphasise the need to address the transfer of data to third countries and private parties within the framework of this instrument. we regret, of course, that we were not informed of the discussions in the council. we regret that the opinion adopted unanimously by this parliament is clearly not taken into account in the negotiations in the council. the european parliament has nevertheless shown its maturity and sense of responsibility. we cannot set up the visa information system without a guarantee that a framework decision on data protection will be adopted. i want to make it clear that this is not blackmail. we simply want to reaffirm the determination of a democratically elected parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i welcome the presidencies! i would like to make a few remarks in the light of the next summit and i hope that the energy i can put into it will reach you. this would be a first step towards energy efficiency and not bad for the summit. let us start with turkey. i would like to say something that has already been suggested here: the problem of turkey's accession has nothing to do with cyprus. let us not pretend that the problem of turkish accession to cyprus can be solved. yes, turkey must recognize the customs union. we must finally break the blockade of northern cyprus and we must not allow the greek cypriots to continue to blackmail northern cyprus in this way, because the people of northern cyprus are victims of turkish and greek cypriot nationalism. we europeans must say that! i hope this will finally make the summit the summit. secondly, the climate policy. wonderful, hans-gert, i see you have arrived in the climate reality. that's very good and very pleasant. but then we'll do it right! we agree here in europe to reduce co2 emissions and then we agree to a stability pact. the commission will initiate criminal proceedings against those who do not comply with the reduction. i'm tired of hearing about how we have to say something all the time, but when we have to decide something, we're not there, we're at the next football game. so, let's make the deal. let's say europe has to cut so much. i hear you want to decide 20% renewable energy from 2012. there you go. but then those countries, large or small, which are unwilling or unable to do so, should also be put to the test by the european union. this is something we could use. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the directive. but also right. we have built a house, the common european house. unfortunately, we only built windows, we forgot the doors! if we don't have doors in a house, people come in through the window. if we don't want people coming in through the windows anymore, we'll have to build doors. doors means "open" in german, they can be opened or left open. we need to regulate how the doors are opened, how people can come to europe legally, not just refugees, not just migrants, but there has to be legal labour immigration. we must regulate this positively so that people also know how a door opens or closes in europe. let's make nails out of heads! the subject of frontex. that's wonderful. frontex has been rescuing people from the water. but for three years now, we have been promising the people of africa that we will provide them with boats so that they can stop illegal fishing by the chinese and others on their borders. have we delivered these ships? i'm not sure. but we did frontex. let's make nails out of heads and help people so they can survive, too. this is a european task. the summit can really become a summit, and it can be a good summit if a little more energy is put into it and less flowery words, but real action!
mr president, the german presidency of the european union is going to be a test. a test of the ability of institutions to take into account the will of the people. the reflection period is about to end and the french election deadline will be over. those who refused to accept the death of the constitutional treaty will be able to go on the offensive. cutting, decoupling, sausage-making: the recipes are varied, the plans numerous, but none of them offers a real alternative to the supranational project. only the means of circumventing the dutch and french referendums are being studied, and mrs merkel's statements - i should say threats - are not doing any good. if the advocates of the 'no' are hardly tolerated in this house, remember that they are listened to by the people. under the circumstances, i can only repeat my warnings. the german presidency must not be the one to do the irreparable by resurrecting a constitution which no one wants any more but the system, and i dare hope that this house is not just a chamber that echoes the system, but that it still has the ambition to represent the peoples of europe, peoples who want to remain masters of their own destiny at home, that is to say, to be sovereign.
mr president, madam minister, mr president of the commission, president barroso recently said that it would be unwise to proceed with further enlargements without settling the institutional question. the institutional mechanisms are no longer sufficient to enable the union to function satisfactorily. this is particularly the case with european immigration policy, which is being abused by the rule of unanimity. to give the impression of a leakage forward is simply to risk endangering the european union. in order to complete the enlargement process with the support of the european peoples, it is essential to show them the need to set up adequate institutions. the question of the endless enlargement of a europe without defined frontiers was a no in the rejection of the constitutional treaty. the european union must be given a geographical and political framework which is essential for the people of europe to take back control of europe. as regards turkey, i take note of the council's decision to partially freeze the negotiations on eight of the 35 chapters. however, this measure seems to me to be insufficient, since turkey has not fulfilled its commitments under the ankara protocol. i therefore believe that these negotiations should be suspended in their entirety. it is inconceivable that turkey still does not recognise the existence of a member state of the european union, in this case cyprus, which it has partially occupied for more than thirty years. finally, i must stress the capacity for integration. this capacity is not infinitely extensible. moreover, it should become a criterion for enlargement, even though the finnish presidency told us otherwise this morning. we must show responsibility in this vital question of europe's borders. as for climate change, i would say this: it is urgent, it is the major challenge of this century, it requires the commitment of all and we must put aside our differences. we must also convince the other economic powers to join us. in short, we expect a strong signal from this european council and, above all, no tongue-lashing!
mr president, madam president-in-office, europe has sometimes had great meetings in helsinki. i have the impression that when you take over the german presidency, everyone will remember your presidency with a modest memory, because the difficulty is very real, but in the end it is not the responsibility of a presidency but the responsibility of all of us. we must get our act together and we must revive the european project. in this respect, the debate we have had in this house on absorption capacity, the subject on which we have just voted, is, i believe, fundamental. it raises again the question of the efficiency, democracy and financial capacity of the european union. i hope that when you take over the german presidency, these questions will be clearly asked so that tomorrow we can put europe back on track and, above all, enable our fellow citizens to see europe as a solution and not as the problem. to do this, two questions need to be carefully considered. first, the question of the internal market. i know the ayatollahs of the internal market who see in it only the free movement of services, goods and capital. without a social model, without a social dimension, without a directive on public services, the internal market will only serve the strongest and richest and will run counter to what our fellow citizens expect from the european union. secondly, the energy question. i know the apostles of a liberalization of markets as the only solution to all the difficulties we are facing: it is a little short. we must also raise the question of research, taxation, interconnections and geostrategy, and i know that you, madam president, have clear views on these matters. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. have a good one!
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank in particular the secretariat of the committee on transport for its excellent work in preparing and consulting the interested parties on this important matter. this dossier is mainly concerned with the protection of the environment against marine pollution. the report i am presenting to you today concerns the accelerated introduction of double hull requirements or equivalent design standards for single hull tankers. the commission has also proposed that the exemptions which have been in place since 2002 be abolished. after the sinking of the oil tanker prestige in 2002, the commission had decided to accelerate the withdrawal of single-hull oil tankers, in accordance with the december 2002 regulation. the commission also proposed to prohibit, with immediate effect, the transport of heavy petroleum products in single-hull tankers to or from ports of a member state of the european union. at present, international maritime law provides that a vessel flying the flag of a member state may benefit from exemptions from this prohibition, provided that it is sailing outside european ports. commissioner barrot has just mentioned that at a meeting of the international maritime organisation, the italian presidency of the union had declared on behalf of the 15 member states that they would not allow their tankers to use this exemption under rule 13 h. the commission therefore considered that the 2002 regulation should be adapted by deleting the last exemption to rule 13 h and, therefore, prohibiting the transport of heavy petroleum products in single-hull tankers flying the flag of a member state, irrespective of the jurisdiction of the ports, offshore terminals or maritime zone in which those tankers operate. only one european country - greece - had refused to accept the political position of the italian presidency, considering that it was not bound by it. it seems that it wanted to continue to allow its single-hull tankers to sail outside european ports with, of course, heavy oil products on board. finally, during the work of the committee on transport, this objection was not renewed. today the 25 member states of the european union have agreed that no tanker carrying heavy goods will be allowed to fly the flag of a member state if it is a single-hull tanker. in reality, this only confirms what is already respected and applied by the vast majority of member states. the absolute requirement to respect the objective of maximum maritime safety once again prevailed in this case, as did the reduction of the risks of pollution by oil. the risks of pollution are many and can be of various kinds. just five days ago, toxic barrels were drifting between the cotentin and the atlantic in my region. last friday evening, these barrels were blown off the deck of a swiss container ship from antwerp to portugal. while the new double hull legislation is a significant step forward in the prevention of marine pollution, standards must continue to be established to enable tankers and merchant ships to offer the greatest number of guarantees. the motorways of the sea are a solution to congestion, but the safety of ships must not be neglected. it's about the future of our entire planet. mr president, commissioner, i would like to point out that your rapporteur has tabled a technical amendment, which is also supported by the european commission, and which saves us from having to amend a series of references. moreover, this one, of a linguistic nature, concerns only the english version. this amendment does not alter the text on the substance and the finnish presidency has confirmed to us that it does not raise any problems for the council.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, my first words will be words of thanks to my colleague werner langen for the listening skills and the wisdom, and also the audacity, which he has shown in his report. the committee on international trade, having noted the european union's significant backwardness, in consumption of course, but also in the production of biofuels, naturally proposes to develop imports, but also to pay attention to european industrial production in a dual objective of energy independence of the union and outlets for agricultural products, for example sugar plants. the costs of producing ethanol are 25 euros per hectolitre in brazil, 35 euros in the united states of america and 45 euros in the european union. that is why we propose that for a given period an acceptable rate of penetration of bioethanol imports into the union should be defined so that this is compatible with the progressive development of community production, in line with the european strategy for sustainable development.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, the experiments in liberalising the energy sector have all led to price increases and a deterioration in the quality of the service provided. in the union, liberalisation and the separation of energy producers and distributors has led to under-investment in generation units and electricity transmission networks. it is this policy that is responsible for the big crash of november 2006; it will inevitably lead to enormous difficulties in the years ahead. in this context, there is an urgent need to accelerate investment in research in all fields, including nuclear, to meet the challenge of the post-oil era and combat greenhouse gases. there is an urgent need to put an end to the obligation to separate energy producers from energy transmission networks and to stop all measures to liberalise the energy sector. that is why i am in favour of the creation of a european energy agency to coordinate the energy policies of the member states and their research and development efforts. this entity would chair a union-wide economic interest group. it would bring together all the companies producing and distributing electricity and ensure that everyone has access to energy at reasonable costs. energy is not a commodity like any other, it is a common good of mankind.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make two points on the occasion of this joint debate on energy. firstly, the european union has no competence in energy matters. this is so true that the various reports emphasize that the energy choices of the member states are their exclusive competence. mrs morgan adds an explicit reference to maximum subsidiarity. but everything in these reports contradicts these claims, so prescriptive and directive are they. secondly, the europe of brussels has already shown what it is capable of by usurping the right to conduct an energy policy and liberalizing the electricity and gas markets. with what results? increased prices for consumers, the question of tariff equalization, and therefore of the public service, supply interruptions, concerns about the maintenance, extension and modernization of networks ... today we are witnessing an accelerated concentration of the sector, to the point that the famous competition you keep telling us about is very close to becoming a monopoly of the energy market by a handful of multinational companies. the only difference is that these monopolies will be in the hands of private capital, perhaps not even european, and not public enterprises either. so yes, we are in favour of energy security, energy efficiency, but it is up to sovereign states to manage these strategic matters.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few comments on the various items on the agenda this morning. with the report on nuclear safety and security assistance, the european union is taking it upon itself to promote nuclear safety and security in the world by proposing an instrument for cooperation with third countries. it is not the european union's responsibility to prevent the construction of new power stations or to require the closure of installations, decisions which are within the sovereignty of states, but to promote a culture of nuclear safety. i therefore regret the two amendments tabled by the greens, which are more than minimal. it is the upstream intervention which makes it possible, before the plant is put into operation, to provide for the safety measures to be taken. this morning parliament is also proposing an ambitious report on biomass and biofuels, which are important elements for the union's energy independence and for the fight against climate change. however, the overall energy efficiency of biomass will have to be measured. finally, i would have liked a stronger message from parliament on the european commission's green paper, particularly on the efforts needed to reduce energy consumption in buildings and transport. another example: we have once again ignored the debate on nuclear energy. we must recognize that nuclear power is part of the energy mix, that it contributes to the fight against climate change and, moreover, that we have world-renowned expertise in this field. i would also like to stress the need to encourage the grouping of network operators to create a european code to control the security of energy transmission networks. finally, as private individuals face the opening up of the energy market, it is time to look at the role of regulators and to develop internal market guidelines to control prices. energy is a vital need: it is essential that european citizens, especially the poorest, have access to this universal service!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the serious power outage in germany on 4 november has shown - if need be - that energy security is a european concern and that it is at european level that we must find solutions. europe is increasingly being looked to for a balance between energy supply and demand, which is increasingly subject to the volatility of suppliers and the tensions resulting from the highly unequal geographical distribution of resources. the commission has therefore been wise in presenting this green paper, which we are now examining in the light of the report by mrs morgan. i congratulate her on the excellent work she has done and i am pleased that on such an important and sensitive issue there has been a broad consensus within the committee on industry, research and energy and, above all, that the strong idea that the three objectives of security of supply, competitiveness and environmental sustainability are both major and inseparable has been highlighted. the same is true of the need to diversify the energy mix by means of the three pillars of fossil fuels, nuclear energy and renewable energy. finally, many agree that, in the present state of research, to abandon one of these pillars would be problematic and would jeopardize the achievement of the above objectives. i would like to welcome the relevance of this debate, which encourages us to be bold. for the first time, we have the opportunity to tackle the challenge of growth and the challenge of protecting nature simultaneously, in a context of growing concern about the damage caused by greenhouse gas emissions. as mr turmes said earlier, we only have one planet. i therefore support in particular the amendment which, taking into account the serious environmental concerns, proposes an overall target in terms of the percentage of non-carbon energies. mr president, i would simply add, in conclusion, that after the crisis caused by the failed referendums in france and the netherlands, the construction of europe must prove its effectiveness to the citizens. energy policy gives us an opportunity to do so. may the political will be there!
in writing. i think that mr langen's report on a strategy for biomass and biofuels describes well the full range of costs and benefits of using renewable energy. i would like to point out, however, that some amendments tabled in the committee on agriculture were not accepted. firstly, although renewable energies can help reduce the european union's energy dependence, we must simultaneously reflect more broadly on our energy consumption and, therefore, on our lifestyles and production methods in order to consume better, but above all less energy. secondly, we should not engage in an intensive and productivist cultivation of renewable energy sources, which would have harmful environmental, economic and social consequences and would not be in line with the european strategy for sustainable development. the main function of agriculture must remain food production. the forest resource must be exploited rationally. cogeneration must be the rule in biomass production. finally, the supply, distribution and marketing of agricultural and forestry raw materials and energy produced at local market level must be organised and improved, avoiding excessive transport times.
in writing. as designed, this fund will be used to finance the accelerated communitization of european societies. this is a kind of crazy "city politics" on a 25-year scale. in my country we are already experiencing the consequences of these policies which are based on absolute respect for the cultural specificities of immigrant populations. they are pouring huge sums of money into measures aimed at people who are not willing to integrate but who claim as a matter of right the social, economic and political rights which should be reserved for nationals. the consequences are ghettoization, interethnic clashes, anti-french riots, the sacking of public facilities, sometimes with deaths, the rise of islamism. but since the amounts allocated to each state will depend on the number of immigrants it receives, this fund may eventually be useful: it may finally allow us to know the true numbers of immigration. the official figures, which are constantly being altered, range from 17 to 40 million non-community nationals living in the union. the european peoples, thus becoming aware of the scale of the problem, may be able to wake up before it is too late!
in writing. i thought, when i read the title of the report, that the european union was proposing to help member states financially to repatriate illegal immigrants who are subject to deportation measures to their countries of origin, or to give them a boost, when their legislation provides for aid for the resettlement of legal immigrants in their country. we believe that the eu does not have and should not have powers in the area of immigration. it is true that such a proposal could have been explained by the consequences for all european countries of the disastrous policies of regularisation carried out by a few, such as spain and france, which are the real vacuum pumps of illegal immigration. it is also a question of financing, in addition to the repatriation of illegal aliens, cash incentives and other aid for reintegration, employment and, what do i know, for the 'personal development' of the illegally repatriated! it's a bonus for hiding, and an incentive to do it again.
in writing. it is proposed to modify the schengen information system (sis), which, although successful, will not be able to work with more than 18 member states. the 'sis ii' should therefore, according to the europeans, become a technologically highly advanced system which would also enable the new member states to apply the schengen acquis in its entirety by abolishing internal border controls with their neighbours. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. this potential european big brother has the largest database on people with more than 15 million entries containing information ranging from first and last names, physical characteristics to lost, stolen or misappropriated banknotes. in addition to the fact that such a concentration of information could constitute a threat to privacy and freedom of thought, there is a legitimate fear that sis ii may go beyond its main mission of police and judicial cooperation to become the subjective snitch of the european and globalist system.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mrs morgan on her initiative to draw up a report on the green paper presented by the commission on a european strategy for secure, competitive and sustainable energy. we must now answer the key questions for the future of europe: how can we guarantee secure energy supplies at predictable and affordable prices, especially for the most deprived citizens? how can we reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and the few producing countries in the world? i had to abstain on the final vote, however, because i think that the proposal for total ownership unbundling of the energy networks will not allow these questions to be properly answered, particularly those concerning investment and security of supply. as vice-chair of the eu-central asia delegation, i am concerned about the call for increased energy supplies from central asian producers such as kazakhstan, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. these countries are areas where democracy and the rule of law are not respected, and i agree with president borrell that oil, gas and electricity are not exchanged for human rights.
in writing. i am voting against this report which, under the pretext of sustainable development and energy security, proposes a new stage of liberalisation and competition in a sector where the public service should, on the contrary, be consolidated. the report states the need to increase the separation between the actors responsible for the marketing of energy and the owners and operators of networks, emphasising further the difference imposed for the ownership of these two areas. in short, it is a challenge to the existence of public enterprises in charge of all public service missions. i cannot support such a policy of privatisation and total competition which causes an increase in the price of energy, does not guarantee the reduction of consumption and the development of renewable energies and increases inequalities between territories and citizens.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague eluned morgan on her own-initiative report on the european strategy for secure, competitive and sustainable energy. the report includes significant progress on the social side, including easier access to energy for the poorest, and on the environmental side. however, i abstained on the final vote because i regret the total separation of ownership in the gas sector. given the specificities of this strategic sector, i believe that a more flexible separation would have facilitated the securing of supplies and investments.
in writing. whatever hopes are placed in biomass and biofuels, they can only be a partial solution to the problems of our countries' energy dependence and the production of clean and renewable energy. firstly, because the whole arable or forested area of europe, or even of the planet, would not be sufficient to meet our needs and because we are not replacing one dependence with another, even more serious, dependence on food. secondly, because the overall carbon footprint is not necessarily as positive as we are led to believe. the potential of these energy sources must be exploited, but not at the expense of food production, the existence of forests, biodiversity, other uses of these products, for the wood industry or other sectors, or the progress that can be expected from research into new motorizations or hydrogen. and we must first of all put an end to this absurdity that in my country, france, a municipality or a farmer can be fined heavily for using biofuels in public transport or a tractor, in breach of aberrant tax rules.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing this afternoon the question of the european union signing the hague convention on the law applicable to certain rights in securities held with an intermediary. parliament has accepted the union's accession to the hague convention, but it intends to exercise democratic control over each of the sectoral ratifications. the convention in question is of concern to us in more than one way, in particular because it is intended to lead to a revision of a number of directives which we have adopted in this field. i am thinking of the so-called 'collateral', 'finality' and 'liquidation of credit institutions' directives. however, we could easily go back to these guidelines if we were not afraid of three fundamental obstacles. firstly, the ratification of this convention on the law applicable to certain rights in securities leaves such a margin of appreciation for the parties to choose the applicable law that we are very much afraid that the whole mechanism that we have long and meticulously put in place at the european union level to combat money laundering may simply be circumvented. secondly, the recommendations of the financial action task force, the fatf, on the need to be able to identify the owners of securities seem to us to be absolutely incompatible with this hague convention in that, once again, it leaves the parties too much freedom in choosing the applicable law. thirdly, we fear that the entry into force of such a convention will lead to the circumvention of the provisions on market abuse which the union has adopted. once again, without clear identification, we fear that it is possible to circumvent certain obligations established at european level. in this connection, i shall, for the first time, invoke the opinion of the central bank in support of the withdrawal of this proposal. as you know, the european central bank, in its opinion, expressed very serious reservations; in particular, it highlighted the systemic risk and the risk of exponential growth of litigation, which could undermine clear arbitration in the determination of the ranking of collateral. the commission has almost made 'better lawmaking' a leitmotif of its action: you have here a case study in which you could put this principle into practice. that is why we are asking the commission to withdraw its proposal for ratification of the hague convention on the law applicable to certain rights in securities.
the commission's vice-president mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's 2003 proposal for the signature of the hague convention on securities has reached a dead end. the united states and switzerland signed the convention in july 2006, europe is questioning and the council is divided. the introduction in 1998 of the account location mechanism in the directive on the final nature of the regulation, and later in the directive on the winding-up of credit institutions and the directive on financial guarantee contracts, has helped to ensure legal certainty as regards the law applicable to indirectly held securities. while it is also true that there is no evidence of practical problems in the internal market, the scope of this mechanism is essentially limited to situations where securities act as collateral in the banking sector. determining the place of a securities account in the dematerialized and virtual world in which we now live would require the development of new common regulations, for example, via a standardized numbering of bank accounts. the aim of the negotiations on the hague convention on securities was to create a single, common mechanism applicable at international level. the convention proposes to this end that the parties should be free to choose the law governing the ownership of securities. since all member states had accepted the compromise at that time, the commission proposed in 2003 to sign the convention. since then, several member states have raised new questions about the project. the council then asked the commission for clarification on four specific legal issues. the answer came in the form of a legal impact assessment of the convention, carried out by the commission services and communicated to the council on 3 july. in this study, the commission services considered that the signature of the convention was the simplest solution to have a single rule at international level. the impact assessment also proposed alternatives to signing the convention, including the extension of the account location clause to all uses of securities, not just to uses as collateral. however, to obtain a solution on this basis at international level, further negotiations with third countries would be necessary. at this stage, on the proposal of my colleague in charge of the internal market, we do not believe that an assessment of the economic and financial impact of the convention, as mentioned in the oral question, would help us to find a solution. the member states which negotiated the convention in 2002 and are currently debating it in the council did not consider it necessary to have such a study at the time, nor have they done so since. in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement and in the interest of more efficient legislation, the commission would welcome any additional external analysis of the legal or economic impact which would allow us to move things forward. as i have already said, the matter is blocked in the council, but the commission remains open to all proposals. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether it will take a decision on the matter.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the hague convention on intermediary securities is intended, as has just been said, to determine the law applicable to property rights arising from the listing of financial securities held by an intermediary. this text is far from unanimous within the european union, which justifies the relevant questions raised by mrs berès. first, the hague convention retains the autonomy of the will of the investor and his intermediary in the designation of the law to which they intend to be attached in the event of a dispute. this is contrary to the law in most european countries, which retains the place of domicile of the securities account as a relevant element in deciding the applicable law. in other words, the choice of law would now be purely contractual, which of course creates legal uncertainty in this area. secondly, and let us not be too euphemistic, given the importance of the american institutions active in this field, there is a risk that the choice of american law will henceforth become the contractual rule, which will inevitably have a number of negative consequences. in terms of activities, on the one hand, the obvious mastery of us law by the overseas players is likely to work in their favour and create a competitive disadvantage for european institutions. in terms of investor protection, on the other hand, if in most european legal systems the investor holding a security has a right over its issuer, in us law he has only a right over his intermediary. hence, there are legitimate concerns in the event of the latter's bankruptcy. finally, the provisions of the convention are likely to defeat - as mrs berès pointed out - anti-money laundering measures because they are based on the principle of territorial cohesion. suspicions must be reported to the competent national authority, i.e. the authority of the country where the intermediary is established. the commission considers that the fact that the bank of greece has not provided the information requested by the commission does not constitute a breach of the principle of legal certainty. the european central bank expressed its concerns, in particular as regards the risk of incompatibility between the prudential and financial stability rules and the provisions of the law chosen by the parties. it also seems difficult to reconcile the principles of most european countries, where the relationship between the investor and the issuer of securities is direct, whereas in the principles of anglo-saxon law there is no direct relationship between the issuer of securities and the investor. you said, commissioner, that accession to the hague convention on securities held by intermediaries was at a standstill: we want it to remain there!
mr president, commissioner, i would just like to make sure that when you report back to commissioner mccreevy about this discussion, you will be sure to tell him that the debate we have just had is addressed to him, but that he must also report back and report back on what has just happened here this afternoon when this matter is brought up again in the council. the council must be aware that parliament is concerned about the outcome of this matter.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission naturally shares parliament's indignation and concern at this unacceptable and intolerable behaviour on the part of soldiers carrying out peacekeeping operations. of course, as such, this is not, strictly speaking, a matter for the commission. it is clear, however, that the sexual exploitation and abuse of which some peacekeepers have been guilty is a matter of serious concern. these incidents have, on the one hand, undermined the trust of the traumatised and impoverished local population and, on the other hand, violated the duty of care incumbent on all peacekeepers. the commission therefore fully supports the measures implemented by the un as part of its zero tolerance policy towards such acts of sexual exploitation and abuse. the commission is obviously joining the european parliament in encouraging the organization to step up its action in this area very rigorously and rapidly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place later this afternoon.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on burma. see minutes of the sitting.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission, like the other european institutions and like your parliament, is very concerned about the situation in burma. exactly 15 years ago, the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to aung san suu kyi. we regret that since that date the political process has been completely paralysed in that country. the burmese authorities, like those in other developing countries, are faced with considerable challenges - to ensure national unity, political stability and to accelerate the economic and social development of the country - but this is by no means an obstacle to the establishment of a legitimate civilian government. the current government has repeatedly stated that military rule will be replaced by a legitimate and elected regime, based on the roadmap for burma. but, to date, we are still at the stage of promises. for all of us, international observers and donors, it is unthinkable that a transition to a legitimate and democratically elected regime can take place without dialogue. such a dialogue must bring together government and political actors. it must include the ethnic minorities, who are very numerous in burma, and lead to an end to the fighting in the areas inhabited by these minorities. similarly, a political transition is inconceivable as long as political opponents of the current regime are imprisoned or deprived of their liberty, as is still the case with aung san suu kyi and over a thousand other opponents. the vision of a democratic and prosperous burma also requires respect for human rights. such respect is sorely lacking. despite the existence of a civil society, the exercise of fundamental rights is far from assured: intimidation, arbitrary arrests, imprisonment of civilians for exercising their civil rights, limitations of individual freedoms continue. members of political parties are subject to constant surveillance by the security services. part of the population is exploited by the military for forced labour. of course, the restrictions on the international committee of the red cross, as you have very well said, are intolerable, and there is little sign that the government is committed to remedying this situation. in the face of all this, ladies and gentlemen, what is the european union's position? the universal declaration of human rights and the charter of the international labour organization are our references. the european common position imposes restrictive measures on visas and investments. in trade matters, burma no longer benefits from the preferential trade regime provided for by the generalised system of preferences. however, the very nature of the burmese regime makes the burmese population very vulnerable to poverty and disease. the commission has therefore decided to increase its assistance substantially from 2007, particularly in the areas of health and education. the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria, which is placed under the auspices of the united nations and co-financed by the commission, should make it possible to combat these three diseases more effectively. in the particular context of this country, any programme requires vigilance and commitment. the programmes financed by the community, amounting to some eur 24 million, are implemented by un agencies and international ngos. the commission has also set up a programme of decentralised cooperation, which should support civil society. the commission is also by far the largest donor to burmese refugees in thailand. in the context of a critical dialogue with the government, the commission will continue to remind the burmese authorities of their responsibilities. the transition in burma must be done with respect for human rights. the admirable struggle of aung san suu kyi, winner of the european parliament's sakharov prize, reminds us of this every day. mr president, i would like to say on a personal note that i have particularly enjoyed these debates on human rights, particularly the debate on burma. i would like to assure the house that the commission will be extremely vigilant and determined to put an end to the present situation in this country as far as possible. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate, that is to say in a moment.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
we are now finished with voting time.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.35 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the three institutions, i shall concentrate my remarks on the resumption of the constitutional process. i sent you a document a few days ago which, as the finnish presidency said, states that the package cannot be reopened, which is a good thing. on the other hand, if the matter is to be dealt with, as the heads of state have said, this dealing with must be about what is constitutional and what is not, an exercise much more complicated than simply separating the first and second parts from the rest. the third aspect of what i am proposing is how to validate this machine. we must go back to the european citizens, and why not, as parliament says, in a transnational way, so that a referendum can be held everywhere on the same day. and finally, we must allow the text, whatever it is, to evolve by means of votes by an overqualified majority, a double overqualified majority, perhaps 80 or 90% of the member states and parliaments, but certainly not 100%. we cannot hold future generations and populations hostage. i think that on that basis things may change in the next few days. it'll be over in no time. on 26 january the 'yes' countries met in madrid. ten days later, the countries of the 'no' side, whether recognized as such or assumed, met in luxembourg. please do your best to make things better.
mr president, the finnish presidency has told us that we need a europe of results. we have achieved these results, but thanks to the european parliament. i would even say that 2006 was the year of parliament, because it was able to demonstrate that it had a real political vision and that it was not a recording chamber. i will quote the services directive, reach and so on. on turkey, you told us that the accession process of turkey was only slowing down. you tell us that the borders of the european union are bound by our values, but our values are universal and we cannot accept everyone. do we want a european europe or an asian europe? president barroso referred to the european union's capacity for integration, saying that it was essential. we must define geographical boundaries, because europe will not be built without the agreement of the peoples of europe. finally, as regards the bridge clauses, everyone agrees that a qualified majority would be required, but as regards immigration policy, we still need to agree first on what we want to do with this immigration policy. some are opening borders en masse; others, on the contrary, wish to develop agreements with developing countries. the german presidency therefore has a huge amount of work to do. i wish him luck.
